ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the 22nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 58(2) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Flower of Zalokar Orazem, Victory of Jelinčič Plmeniti, Miran Györek, Tadej Slapnik, Villa Trofenik from 12 noon onwards, mag. Anton Rop, Franci Kek by 12 o'clock and Franc Pukšič. I invited the President of the Government and the candidate for Minister of Health, Dojan Marusic, to the 2nd item of the agenda, representatives of the government, to all items of the agenda. On the 1st item of the agenda, I invited Minister Borut Miklavčič, Minister of Health. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 22nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 2 April 2010. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda or to extend the agenda, so we are moving on to setting the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 22nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. It's on notice of the departure of Borut Miklavčič, Minister of Health. By letter dated 1 April 2010, the President of the Government of Borut Pahor informed me that Borut Miklavčič, Minister of Health, had resigned as Minister. I give the floor to Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič for reasons of resignation. Please, Mr. Miklavčič. [[For the pay phone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u2	The Honourable President of the National Assembly. The Honourable President of the Government. Dear Members. Two, three words when I leave this hall and this function of mine. I'd like to tell you that I didn't come to this position because of any career ambition. The Prime Minister has invited me to this difficult work and I would like to thank him for his trust at this time. My medical condition and the doctor's advice are that I have to avoid stress. Stress is an integral part of health care, and I would like to say that in my work it has been crucial to lead to such health care and health reform, which will allow for financial stability of the health treasury and the health system as a whole, with all operators. Such a health system that will not be less quality and not less accessible, but better accessible to all our citizens and insurers. I am pleased that when I first entered the health system in the new country, a deficit in the institution was eliminated, the state covered it and the institution still does not record red numbers today. In 2009, with the help of the Government, we rescued Slovenian hospitals, so that no hospital is in exaggerated or red numbers. I hope that I have done everything in my knowledge and ability to make the health system work and to the satisfaction of our citizens. I take this opportunity to thank my colleagues in the Government, the President of the Government and you, all Members, for your trust, your cooperation, for all the conversations we have had, for your suggestions that you have given me. I wish the new minister a great deal of success in his work. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u3	I thank the Minister for his explanation. In this regard, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Borut Miklavčič has resigned and has ceased to serve as Minister of Health until the appointment of a new Minister or until the notification of the President of the Government in accordance with Article 234(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I thank Borut Miklavčič for his cooperation and wish him all the best and abundant health in the future. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSED BY THE CANDIDATE FOR THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH. On 1 April 2010, the President of the Government, Borut Pahor, proposed that Mr Dorjan Marusic be appointed Minister of Health. I give the floor to Prime Minister Borut Pahor to further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, allow me to wish the outgoing, former Minister of Health, colleague and friend Borut Miklavčič my best, and especially many health. I think that after this great work he has done from the beginning of his mandate to today, he deserves a break in which he will have a little more time to himself. As long as you've devoted your time to the common good of this country, you've gained so much respect and authority and you're certainly leaving, Borut, with some satisfaction for your achievements. Thank you very much! My job is to argue after his departure the candidacy of the new Minister, Dr. Dorian Miklavčič. [[The ad in the hall.]] Doryan Marusich. Ah, you know, in the government, you get used to your colleagues as you know you're having a hard time when some people leave you. In short, Dr. Dojan Marusic is a new candidate for the Minister of Health. For this task, if you trust him today, he did not decide on this duty overnight. First, not to forget, I talked to him at the beginning of the term, and then he refused to play that role. The views on what a possible health reform should have brought were far from everyone. Dorjan Marušič is not a person who would make very quick compromises in order to get positions. This time, too, the discussions were not simple, and the views on what health reform should have brought were, at least as far as our views are concerned, a little closer as they were a year ago. I am not an expert on health systems as opposed to some here, which will make it easier for you to judge for yourself, but at a time when Minister Miklavčič has coordinated 24 times the draft law on health care, he has found that it is an extremely complex, complicated, irrational, poorly guided system that requires fundamental changes if we want to have significantly more accessible health care and significantly better quality healthcare than we have today, and for financial and other reasons Slovenia can no longer invest significantly in public health than it does now, but we are not among those countries that give the highest share of gross domestic product in the health system. We note that the need for changes in the health system is great, that they are structural, that they concern the possibility of greater accessibility and quality of health, that they require intervention in cost rationalisation, management of the health system, that it must be more transparent, transparent, and therefore ultimately effective. And there's a lot of need for change. Dr Dorijan Marušič comes as a candidate for the Minister of Health at a time when he is on his way from the Government to the Parliament of the Health Act, one of the two basic laws which is supposed to form the basis of health reform. The other is already in preparation, the Health and Insurance Act. Dr. Dorijan Marušič had the opportunity to consult you on his views and views on the further fate of the reform of the health system at the time of the decision, his and yours. No one who thinks with his head can completely change his views, and if the minister is at the top of some reform to seal this reform. Just as Mr Borut Miklavčič left him in this part, he will certainly leave some personal seal on the reform of Dr. Dorijan Marusič. It is true, however, that this is not his private work and business, but it interferes with a public system or is his task to try, together with other colleagues in the Government and you in the National Assembly, to design a system that meets our values, which is roughly the same between us all. Here I am talking about quality and accessibility to health, about rational management of taxpayers' money, about the fact that our social belongings should not affect the fact that we will receive smaller or higher, better or less-quality health services. Oh. K. We have consensus on this, and now we are looking for the best ways to get as close to this goal as possible under the given circumstances. Dr Dorijan Marušič has accepted an extremely difficult task at a time that is not grateful for the Minister, but it is someone who has experience - he was almost two whole mandates Secretary of State, and in two different governments, he has political experience in regulating political processes, which I think is the hallmark of someone who manages reform. Secondly, according to his education he is a doctor, besides being a mathematician. People who have a natural education have always liked me because they think very logically and come to conclusions that, although sometimes black and white, allow for a clearer judgment between decisions and reasons for one or the other. Dorijan Márušič or Marušič is such a nature. He likes to deal with difficult problems, he likes to draw the difference between what is important and what is disturbing, as irrelevant in his judgment, and he decides according to this priority order. And last but not least, in addition to his experience and completely professional references, he has another feature that I particularly like as Prime Minister. As it is said, he thinks with his head and wants to convince those he is addressing with his arguments, but on the other hand Dr. Dorian Marušič is a candidate who will not insist on his stubbornness only because this is his position if he is persuaded to a better solution. These are some of the features that are very important and useful at this time. That's how I think he introduced himself to this National Assembly. I, in the substantive implications of his, I suppose, hope that I will not interfere with the election. He will immediately take over the work of the Ministry of Health and will continue with the reform, this time by completing the Health Act. This will be the subject of your deliberations. As soon as he doesn't receive any additions. I would very much like to see the Minister and the Government, if and to what extent these supplements will be submitted, agree with them to reach a broad consensus on such an important issue as the first part of the health reform. Then there's protection or insurance here. This is where the government has to do its part of its homework first. We're just ahead of this. And Dorian Marušič will finish this work. Then it comes again before you to find out whether it has sufficient support to go into parliamentary procedure and that this second half-life of health reform ends its work. There's one more thing I'd like to say in the end. Minister Borut Miklavčič is leaving visually tired. Minister Miklavčič was very committed. This also required quantitative, not qualitative, very much work. Minister Miklavčič decided to discuss open issues with stakeholders in the healthcare system very much and recklessly. He has put a great deal on social dialogue. I'm among those who consider themselves consensual politicians. However, I must say that I have come in time to some observations that have led to my further work. Social dialogue also makes sense if it brings added value. However, if the added value is not, if it becomes only an object of prestige, then this social dialogue is no longer useful, and I, as President of the Government, must be able to assess when social dialogue becomes meaningless, when it no longer brings added value, when it is said that this is our view of a reform and we come before the National Assembly. This is what I expect from Dorian Marusic when he continues with health reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u5	In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate presented himself to the Committee on Health and answered questions raised by members of the Committee. You have received the opinion of the committee. It concludes that the presentation of the proposed candidate was appropriate. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, is on 1. 4. 2010 sent Mr Paul Gantar to the President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia a proposal for a candidate for a minister responsible for health. Mr Dorijan Marušič, candidate for Minister responsible for Health, is in accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 230(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 4. 2010 presented to the Health Committee and responded to questions raised by its members. The proposed candidate for a minister first presented the vision of the area and his views on the work of the Ministry for which he was proposed in a very well-trained introductory presentation. He started his presentation with questions he further elaborated on, whether we can build an ideal health system, a review of the health system in the Republic of Slovenia by 2013, the 2008-2012 coalition agreement and the fourth, proposals for conclusions. The presentation has begun with the question of what reforms we must propose when an ideal system cannot be built. In doing so, it is necessary to have a vision, strategy and objectives and to preserve the values of the health system, which Slovenia also has within the European Union. Below, the candidate for minister presented the ID card of the Slovenian health system according to the indicators. He's focused on how to finance health care. With comparative data and business results of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance, he showed the realisation of income and expenditure and the assessment of needs in this area in individual years. He ordered austerity measures and suggested where to look for change reserves from the situation in which health care, even because of the economic situation, is located. He outlined measures, ways to improve organisation and coordination at all levels of health activity, proposed means of allocation of resources, and how to introduce, quality and safety. He stressed that he would reinvigorate the hospital quality rating project and try to regulate the drug market. Priority areas of action with positive incentives will focus in particular on the empowerment of primary levels and preventive activities, business and professionally networked at secondary and tertiary levels, the development of integration processes, the activation of knowledge and the support of information and communication technology. The way to upgrade in the dimension of time and space, according to the Minister's candidate, leads by placing the citizen at the centre of the healthcare system, by separating in the funding system, by implementing ownership, and by integrated health treatment. Following the meeting of the Committee, the majority of the debates and debaters commended the opening presentation and stressed that the candidates for ministers of the topic and health issues were well-known. In doing so, they expressed their expectations and support for the changes that are necessary. According to some members of the Committee, the new Minister is not waiting for a simple job. The legacy she has isn't easy. The specific issues raised by the members of the Committee concerned, in particular, the complications in the granting of public powers to the Chambers, the clienteleistic functioning and illegality in specific areas of health care, the creation and sharing of profits in the field of health care, the payment and voluntary health insurance, the basket of health rights, the separation of public and private health care, the situation, the role and tasks of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, the compulsory and voluntary membership of the Chamber, the role and importance of the healthcare home in the healthcare system, the system of supervision in all areas of health care and insurance, the award of concessions, the establishment of a public health network, investments in health care, etc. Given that the proposal for a Health Act is already in Parliament and that opinions on the proposal have been made publicly, the majority of the members of the Committee were interested in the position of the proposed candidate for the Act and in the preparation of the proposal for a Health Care and Health Insurance Act. The proposed candidate for minister answered most of the questions raised by the members and members of the Committee and informed them of his personal views in specific areas. At the end of his presentation, the Minister's candidate specifically stressed that he would try to keep the Ministry a designer and health policy holder and health system in Slovenia. With all those working in the field of health, I would like to organise and put in place such a system in the future in order to make it a satisfactory majority, especially the insured, patients and, of course, those who carry out this activity. Following the completion of the presentation of the candidate for Minister Dorijan Marusic, the Health Committee adopted the following opinion: The Committee on Health of the National Assembly considers that the presentation of the views and views of Mr Dorjan Marusic, a candidate for Minister for Labour of the Ministry of Health, was appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, allow me to thank, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, for my work so far, Minister Borut Miklavčič, whom I believe has put a good mark on the development of health as an extremely important sector, an extremely important factor in the life of all of us. In the Parliamentary Group of Candidate Dr. Dorijan Marušič, we evaluate two angles or two. Based on his work so far, where we estimate that he has already shown the results of his work in the field of health. Let us recall the preparation of a number of legislation in the role of the Secretary of State and active cooperation in the resolution of health financing, and, based on a presentation by the Home Committee, where the proposed candidate for a Minister presented his view of health and the work of the Ministry in a highly professionally enhanced introductory presentation. We estimate that it is possible to understand from the presentation that the candidate is well aware of the health and functioning of the ministry and, on the other hand, to look at the ministry's tasks and health needs in the future with real eyes. It seems important to us that the candidate is well aware of the way in which health care is financed, as he has also shown by assessing the needs in this area over the years. At the time of the crisis, it seems particularly important to us that he has indicated austerity measures and suggested where to look for alternatives to conversion from the health situation. In addition to giving us measures and ways to improve organisation and coordination, it seems important that we revive the project of classifying hospitals by quality and safety and try to regulate the market with medicines. We also have a positive opinion on priorities, namely greater autonomy and greater emphasis on primary health and preventive activities, business and professional networking at secondary and tertiary levels, the development of integration processes and the use of all available knowledge. We agree with the Minister-designate's opinion that it leads to an upgrade of the reform by placing the citizen at the heart of the healthcare system, a stricter decision on the system of financing, implementation and ownership and integrated health treatment. On the basis of clearly established criteria for morbidity, demographic trends, economic development and the development of health technologies, the real needs of the population should be identified and covered by public funds and an effective health network. We agree with his view that equal access to health services should be given to all in the light of needs, regardless of ethnicity, gender, age, social status or even inability to pay. We expect the candidate for a minister to be primarily supported by the coalition, both in the appointment and later in the implementation of the programme and the tasks they are waiting for. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will not oppose the appointment, although we are in opposition, because we believe that the area of health needs an active, professionally subdued and, above all, a real minister who will be able to reconcile the needs and opportunities that will take into account that the healthcare system must be based, for the first time, on solidarity and justice, and for the second time, on responsibility and effectiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by mag. Your Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honourable President of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the DeSUS Group, we were interested in accompanying the selection of candidates for such a demanding and responsible ministry as the Ministry of Health. A number of names appeared, one more suitable, the other less. In our group, we wanted, in particular, a person who will be trained enough and experienced to deal with one of the most difficult parts, the Ministry of Health, which will have, this person, clearly enough vision and courage to bite into a very sour apple. Finally, we have the name of Mr Dorjan Marusic, a man whom we consider to be very close to his medical profession and health care. At the same time, we found ourselves in the DeSUS Group, even after some media reports, perhaps in an awkward situation in view of the previous mandate, when there may have been some minor offenses, which we have also been critical of, let's say, a package of concessions that was given in this and this mandate that we disagreed with. We talked less about what happened after the State Secretary's replacement at the Ministry and about the departure from the party of DeSUS, Mr Dorjan Marusic. We did not discuss this, but we wanted to discuss what is going on today, what is going to happen in healthcare tomorrow, and we wanted to discuss openly with a man who may be willing to deal with this work and who is also able to do this work. According to his references we expected a quality presentation of his view of Slovenian health care now and also in the future. We must say that Mr Marusič did not disappoint us in this and served us, perhaps a little less at the interview in the parliamentary group, but much more at the almost two-hour interpretation yesterday on the Committee on Health, with a quality and analytical study of Slovenian health. His views on the state of Slovenian health and the announced health reform are considered real. We also welcome his commitment to a strict separation of public and private health. This was somewhere ahead of the demands, including legislation, at least by the coalition. We certainly hope that Mr Marusic will, at the possible election for the Minister of Health, take a real interest in strengthening public health, not so much in increasing the power of the private sector. This, of course, was also indicated yesterday by a rather good illustration from sports life. In the parliamentary group, we expect the ministers to take action towards the establishment of a basic health network. It is only on this basis that concessions are to be shared. We're opposed to concessions. We do not oppose concessions as such, because they are part of the system, because they are part of public health after all, but we want to avoid abuses when people, through concessions, come to the health services they should pay for. We also expect, and it was particularly heartwarming for us to be clearly defined, if possible, a basket of health services, which we have already talked about so much that will allow access to basic health services for all citizens and citizens, including those who cannot pay for their species. In the DeSUS Group, at the time of Mr Marusic's presentation, both in our parliamentary group and in the Health Committee, we formed each other's position, which eventually became united at the time of the conversation, especially in the course of this morning's conversation. Members of the DeSUS Group will support the candidate for Minister Dorijan Marusic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, good morning, good morning. Not only is it proverbial, but it is true that our riches are health. Therefore, it is our duty to protect and pay the greatest attention to all of us, and our greatest wealth. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced at this time that the need to appoint a new Minister of Health at this time is much more important than any political agenda, even more important than political, economic and possibly moral crisis in the country of Slovenia. Sadly, many times we learn the truth only when we fall into the mercy or infamy of the health system. After two years, after the crisis that has arisen, of course, this moment is of course the most important for us to get the Minister of Health, because health is the greatest wealth at the outset. Secondly, because we are ahead of the health reform we need to take. And thirdly, because at this point it is ahead of us, at least in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, a candidate with foundations and knowledge. He is a doctor and also has political experience as a two-time secretary of state in health. At this point, it is too much to think about his political conviction, willingness, color, or whatever. Of course, there are some open questions that, despite Mr Marusic's presentation in the Slovenian National Party, we have not received the answers directly or we have not detected or understood them, so I would point out two content. The first is that in the Slovenian National Party we agree with all of those, I am speaking of course of new health legislation, which will bind the new candidate so much more to his work that the health network must be an integral part of the law and not of the law. However, it is not necessarily a problem, but as has already been said, I think that a respected colleague Dr. Cukjat said the last time at public hearing that we have a law that was passed, before, I think that twenty or more years ago, which defines this matter, the network, medically, very well, because it sets minimum and maximum conditions within which even within the legal framework of the hospital can be transformed and adapted to health conditions. We also hope and want and do not receive an answer and we are interested in what Dr Marusič thinks about the question of the working time of doctors. In the new legislation, this working time of doctors is expected to be very strict. So doctors should not work more than - which, of course, is not acceptable today. It is not acceptable because the right to health is the fundamental right of every citizen and citizen, and of course it has this right. Of course, according to the latest statistics in Slovenia, unfortunately we have only 24 doctors per 10,000 inhabitants, but if there is a need for doctors, if there is a need to treat people and help them, then, of course, it is bad to limit the working time of doctors and, I don't know, prohibit the doctor from working for more than six, seven hours - I speak pathetically. Doctors are doing their best to do so and to do so for as long as they are both mentally and physically capable. Dr. Marusich made his course clear in a few ways. We agree with its direction that it opposes so-called "very important people" groups, i.e. VIP groups, that they want to classify patients according to the severity of the disease, offer, in so far as the crisis is concerned, deadlines to other operators within the public network and make some learning process based on the level of the disease. I hope that his words will become true when it comes to the question that the private doctor is only a private doctor, that doctors working in public health can also work with the concessionaire and that there will be increased supervision. That's what Dr. Marusic promised, and I hope he stays. It is important that his claim and his desire that the Minister be also a strong supervisor and have the opportunity to have a comprehensive view. He is right to claim that basic health insurance must be ventilated and redesigned. I think he's talking about a network, a basket of rights, and I hope that he can do it, even though it's one of the hardest tasks. Of course, the issue of the Institute for Health Insurance and Alleged Health Insurance is also raised, almost EUR 112 million of loss foreseen for the end of 2010, beyond which Dr Marusič will certainly not be able to go. It would be good to know how he is prepared for this, of course, in addition to the part of the savings he foresees. Maybe two more things to go. The first is that, personally, as well as my colleagues, despite some of the objections that we have also received in writing, we give Dr Marusich the right to seek, despite being a minister, the right to be a doctor to a certain extent. He's right. First, he will deepen his knowledge and preserve his knowledge. And secondly, he's obviously so smart that he knows that politics, each of us, throws him off to the island pretty well, but sometimes he can spit him out. Thank God he will still be a good doctor and, above all, in history, Dr Marusič will be able to remain a good health policy expert. However, if Dr Marusič also thought about returning many years ago, in this case the Slovenian National Party agreed and that we would no longer have primary, secondary, tertiary health care and that we would think about having one health care, that would be a real revolution. And I think it's useful. Because, last of all, if we look at how primary and secondary health care is divided, especially in cases where the healthcare home and the hospital are together, what stupid things are done, how many doctors, say, sit on one side without work, and on the other side have 50, 60 people in line, that's nonsense, that's the big nonsense that we're doing. That's the law. I think there should be order in this area and one-stage health care. For when a person needs help, he will not ask if a doctor is in a medical home or in a hospital. And you can't go, I don't know, unconsciously to a doctor in a health care facility to give you a manual for surgery at the hospital. I'm cariculating, but that's what's going on. If this system were to be changed by Dr. Marusich, I'd do a lot. He's got a tough job ahead of him. We will have to enforce the Health Act, provide Slovenians and Slovenians with the right to health care as they do, and in this case we have no problem with the information that Slovenia is already giving 9% of GDP to the health treasury, but even if it were given 12 of them, there is probably another country that gives even more if it is for the benefit and well-being of Slovenes and Slovenians and if it is done for human health. At the moment, however, human health is so much more important because we are living in a transition time when we, too, must admit, in some parts of the very good times we have come into a new policy, into a new economic system, a market system where life is unmerciful, where man is exploited to the end, where the efforts that the employer demands are too great and cause many diseases and diseases, if we cannot prevent them already, with a relationship, fair treatment of workers, we must at least prevent them and treat them. And this is the primary and primary task of our health care. Therefore, the Minister of Health is one of the most important ministers in our country, at least for the Slovenian National Party, which will not oppose this appointment if Dr Marusic is elected Minister of Health. Thanks for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Have a nice hello again. Even in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are aware that the health sector is one of the most important areas for which very careful decisions must be made, since it is actually affecting each and every one of us at different times of life. We will therefore support the appointment of Dr Marusic as Minister of Health at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, as he is a good health expert at yesterday's meeting of his mother's working body, i.e. on the Health Committee. Our assessment is that he is a connoisseur of Slovenian and foreign health systems. By his presentation, which was very extensive and thorough, he highlighted in fact all the key problems facing Slovenian health care at the moment. He showed excellent knowledge of the substantive, organisational, financial and other challenges. In particular, the quality of the candidate is that he is a good knowledgeer of health systems in the international space. Therefore, in the LDS, we believe that the work of Mr Marusic so far is from the work of the doctor, the management of the hospital, to the work of the Secretary of State, and lately the responsibility of the Department of Health Insurance, the right combination of experience and knowledge for a new challenge, this is the management of the Ministry of Health. In our view, Mr candidate, Mr Dorijan Marusic, is a person who will be able to begin his work immediately at the Ministry, because, in our view, there is no time for a more extensive and longer deployment period, as the situation indicates that there will be a need for rapid action. As it is said, the candidate for minister knows the situation and problems of the Slovenian healthcare system. He also demonstrated by the presentation that he has the will and knowledge that he also has the experience needed to act. The health situation, especially as health reform is under way, the Health Act is already in the parliamentary procedure, the starting points of the Health and Health Insurance Act are in public debate, require follow-up and sound conduct. In our view, at least two objectives in the first place are universal accessibility, quality, security and efficiency in terms of the resolution's password, and financial, thus satisfied users and operators, and the financial sustainability of the healthcare system. Both priorities, both objectives were confirmed by the candidate in his presentation. When we talk about the announced health reform, even in the Liberal Democracy, we believe that the Health Act can only be a part of the important and necessary state of health in Slovenian health, but we will only be able to talk about reform when the relevant sub-laws are prepared, especially the establishment of a public health network and when we will also be faced with amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act. This is a financial part of the reform, the scope of rights, the definition of baskets of rights from public funds, the form of insurance, the competitiveness of insurance undertakings in terms of analysis and possible changes between compulsory and voluntary supplementary health insurance and the areas of other laws. In our view, both laws aim to regulate the situation and establish control in the first place, and this is highlighted in particular, and to ensure financial sustainability to take account of the interests and benefits of citizens and citizens, i.e. users, and to establish trust and partnership with operators. The candidate for minister has also openly said that the announced health legislation, we are talking about the Health Act, the Health and Health Insurance Act is not a reform to upgrade legislation in the health field. In the context of the exchange of views and views on the Committee, the candidate also made it clear and expressed his views on the Health Act, and he demonstrated his opinion that further analysis is necessary to continue this process of adoption of the law in order to have a clear view of the proposed solutions to this law. With only two very important areas to mention, this is the experience and practice so far within the public health system within the framework of the public network and concessionaires. Another very important area is the efficiency of the management of the system in public health institutions and how these institutions are managed. It is also very important to note that, within the framework of the Health and Health Insurance Act, it supports a very important social dialogue with regard to the proposed changes, i.e. how to ensure the financial stability of the healthcare system, and that the intervention to rights cannot be such as to go against the users of the healthcare system. And social dialogue in this area will be of paramount importance. And for us in the Liberal Democracy, this is an extremely important area, which will then be linked to the solutions that will be enshrined in the Health and Health Insurance Act. In our view, it is the task of the Minister, i.e. the Minister, whom I believe will also receive majority support today, to open other laws for which practice has shown that they need to be upgraded. For in the past we have adopted some legal solutions, whose practice has shown that they were not the best and that in this way certain problems arise in the implementation of these laws. As it is said, the candidate inspires confidence that he will be able to face all health problems. That is why today he will have the support of Members of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Of course, in his future actions, we will weigh his decisions, his proposals for marriage, we will try to influence and decide on these legal contents that will be proposed in the National Assembly, and, of course, we will make specific decisions when the debate is on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u16	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to begin by thanking Minister Borut Miklavčič, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, for his successful management or management. Unfortunately, the concern for health, which we are always talking about, has crossed his plans to prepare and implement health reform with us. How difficult the field of health is, it is also evident from the coordination carried out and the number of draft draft legislation on health activities. Already placing in parliamentary treatment is a major achievement of the outgoing minister and, of course, at the same time a great challenge for the candidate, whom we will, so confidently in the Group of Social Democrats, today commit the necessary confidence. Voting on a parent's working body, where no one voted against, is, of course, an incentive to the candidate, which will be tested again and again when Parliament proposes legal solutions. This is also pointed out by the missing votes of the coalition on the Health Committee yesterday. So we want solutions or better said, we demand solutions that are mostly related to the Social Democrats programme and the text set out in the Coalition Agreement. The education of a candidate for a minister, proposed by the Prime Minister of the Government, will provide a good basis for dealing with health needs and actual financial capacity. Knowledge in medicine and the final study of theoretical mathematics can be described as a good combination. The professional management of one of the Slovenian hospitals, the function of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, and the adviser of the Director General of the Health Insurance Institute are work experience that convinces. But today's support should not be understood as some kind of blank currency to the candidate. The health sector is particularly sensitive to users and operators. It is quite understandable that due to the expectations of our users, quality care is daily under public scrutiny. The requirements for separation from private, impartial professional supervision, the implementation of a system that is user-friendly and accessible without skipping species are not empty words. These are people's demands, and these are also our commitments to the insurance companies. The legal solutions that go in this direction can certainly hope for our support. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that in life, and especially in politics, compromises are sometimes needed when interests are different, but I stress compromises that are not to the detriment of the public. Public interest remains first. It is very difficult to agree to introduce market legality in health and to seek profit at the expense of public funds. The key points of the candidate at yesterday's meeting of the parent working body are primarily the individual's responsibility for his or her health. The basic basket of rights covered by public funds should be established. We support the expansion of the basics and the ventilation of the basket of rights, which will be coordinated with the social partners and thus the solution, the sustainability of the financial system. An in-depth analysis of what a basket of rights is today, how much it touches socially disadvantaged groups and how sustainable it is in time and space and how comprehensive a solution is to be prepared. That's what the candidate predicted yesterday. Access to health care or health care for all to ensure that the system is robust, that all citizens contribute according to their capabilities and obtain services on the basis of insurance, equal access to health services, regardless of their ethical affiliation, sex, age, social status or even inadequacy of payment. All these are the words of the candidate yesterday at a meeting of the mother's working body. By answering the questions answered yesterday by the candidate, it was possible to understand that he had a vision of how to address certain pressing issues, such as public and private separation, public administration, professional supervision, licensing and concessions, the public health network and the Medical Chamber. He made it clear that he did not imagine anyone from the public sector working in the private sector as well. And you've probably all noticed his graphic representation of a basketball player who could play for two clubs and eventually come into a big dilemma when these two clubs would play against each other if not before. He also stressed the urgent need to establish a public health network and set it up in such a way as to make it effective. The legal form of concessionaires is one of the major problems which is not precisely defined in the Slovenian space. The Concession Treaty is supposed to be unified. However, it is necessary to upgrade the supervision of concession contracts, in particular during the implementation phase. Preparation of the patient's integral clinical pathways and guidance to the quality and safety of the service remains at this point in control issues, unfortunately, open. The candidate isn't very fond of the agency. In the Group of Social Democrats, however, we advocate independent supervision and do not agree to control only through a system of self-control. There is also an open question about the obligations of membership in the Chamber and, of course, the content of the public powers that this Chamber has and exercises. In practice, the granting of specialisations is also seen as a major disadvantage. I've been warned, for example, when one gets two, the other doesn't get one. On the basis of the interview with the candidate in the Group of Social Democrats, we find that the new Minister will follow what is enshrined in the coalition agreement. That's also our condition, that's our request. Social Democrats will support Mr Dorjan Marusic because he is not only an expert, but he is someone who knows the system from all positions, from the general doctor, a specialist in the hospital, the head of Intensive Internal Medicine, the professional director, the state secretary, to the adviser of the Director General of the Health Insurance Office. The Group of Social Democrats will therefore vote in favour of the proposed candidate. Once again, I would like to point out that the votes of the Group of Social Democrats, as well as in other cases, are not a nuance in this respect, and, of course, we will evaluate our decisions in support of legislative proposals and solutions in the same way as the proposals are prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everyone. Finally, in this high house, the President of the Government joined us, who, at the beginning of his term of office, promised that he would be a very frequent guest here to discuss many things with us. Now most of the time was lacking, even in the case of the sole proposer of the exact agenda. And the colleagues of the ministers, who are supposed to accept the new candidate, the new minister, are not at the back, so the work is going on more than itself. At the beginning of the term of office, it was also said that the Prime Minister had formed a strong team, homogeneous, firm, experienced and professional, which was to be stronger than its predecessors. In order for the results to be better, the winners were likely to be better in themselves. However, developments have brought many disappointments in many areas. Work was slowing down, there were no results and there are no good results now. Since the successful member of the European Union, in a very short time, less than a year and a half of this mandate, we have slipped deep among the greatest losers. In crisis situations, we have also lost a great deal in comparison with other countries and in fact because the Government has almost not proposed, let alone to take effective anti-crisis measures. The packages have remained well packed, wrapped, and the actions of the recently adopted exit strategy are not yet in place. They will be more towards the end of the year when all the reserves are exhausted and there is probably no longer much chance of financial support for the measures. Or maybe we're waiting, waiting for the measures to fall out of the clear sky. Maybe they will. Let's be surprised. But the measures taken by the other members are intended for them, and we will only be their collateral effect. Last year, Mr Prime Minister spoke extensively about the failure of the previous government to make structural adjustments. And yet we were among the best. Now that we're doing really bad when we're at the bottom, when we haven't done anything in this area yet, we're real, and that's probably why these structural adjustments have become history. But if we don't do anything, it won't even happen. The media effects and the likeliness of playing do not produce any results. Despite the changes already made in human resources, including in the ministerial team, there are still no significant changes in the area of regional policy and not in the field of the environment. We are now witnessing the re-establishment of the government team in a very short time. And soon there'll be a fourth. However, interestingly, no one has ever been replaced in the area of finance, in the field of economy, yet no one from the anti-crisis group remains irreplaceable and untouchable, all those who have accumulated great affairs, such as Minister Kresalova, Ministers Golobič, Zalar, Križanič and perhaps others. The President of the Government is making changes in the lateral positions and the central staff of the Government and the central problems of Slovenia remain. However, as we have been monitoring these last days, they are moving to the area of completion of privatisation, which is to say the area of reallocation of what is left of privatisation. And there will probably be certain privileged positions and decisions. This time, the Minister's exchange takes place in politically unfavourable circumstances. The Prime Minister is being blackmailed by small coalition partners who have become involved in affairs. They threaten exit, blackmail with human resources decisions and requirements to stop investigative procedures, exert pressure on independent institutions and so on. Therefore, despite a well-established, logical presentation, the candidate for a minister has not received much support from the working body. Only 7 of the 13 members of the board supported him. And he didn't even get the full support of the party from which the candidate for minister came. We can only imagine how work will be done in the preparation of difficult and socially sensitive health legislation. How the coalition will harmonise such different views on the development of health care is probably not clear to the President of the Government, although he often acts as a visionary. Otherwise, there is a coalition agreement, which was solemnly signed shortly after the elections, where there were some nice phototerms, but this act is more for decoration or memory, and in particular for the generation of bad will in the coalition. Nobody looks at him, except to take any of him down or legalize him. And also a colleague, the leader of the Zalokar Orazem Group, the Flowers of Zalokar - you are now in her place - wondered, a few months ago, when some law from the coalition agreement would come. Few are the laws in this file, that's to be admitted. The leader of the Zares Group is absolutely right and I agree with her here. As I have already said, there are no measures from other dossiers, from the package of anti-crisis measures or from the exit strategy. While ministers are talking, coordinating, some are not talking, and there are no results. The Coalition Agreement in Chapter, Ministry of Health, [[pages 36 to 40]] , predicts a lot of changes. It says what will change and, in some cases, how. Some of this has been made concrete and has been recorded in the 2009 normative programme and something in the 2010 government programme. The implementation of the programme in this area was extremely low and very little success. Now the former Minister has implemented only 12.5% of the 2009 normative programme, which means that he has only drafted one of the eight planned laws, and it was also adopted in the National Assembly. For 2010 too, the story is quite similar. There are ten acts in the programme, nine of them laws and one resolution. We are a month in April, but only one uncoordinated law is proposed in the legislative procedure, which is the Health Act. This is also a difficult future; this is how it can be seen both from the responses of the candidate for minister and from the discussions of the coalition members. It is said that the normative efficiency was not the hallmark of the outgoing minister. He was kind of on the average of government achievements. Of the eighteen laws, one was, it says, the easier one, it's the health care law, it's adopted, and everything else is waiting. And that will certainly be a difficult job for the new minister. Not only because of circumstances that are so difficult, but also because of inconsistencies and inconsistencies in the coalition. In particular, the largest coalition party has a very diversified view of health development. Everyone wants something of their own, they're putting themselves to rest, the Prime Minister of the government is trying hard to direct the boat, because it's what everyone does. There is already a problem within the client and there will certainly be a problem in the coalition. It is not surprising, therefore, that this inefficiency is increasingly noticeable and that we pay high taxes and also pay high interest. Changes are needed if we are to break or stop this rapidly rising load curve. This is for sure, and the easiest way to achieve you is through early elections. We hope that the new minister will not devote himself as much to real estate as his predecessor, who fought for certain properties as a lion and will slowly dig them out of the healthcare system and the list of state assets. All these properties are characterised by low-priced rates, whether they are a city children's hospital, old pediatrics, old psychiatric care, real estate in Croatia, or a prestigious former health facility in Prešernovo, Ljubljana, purchased by a postal mailbox from Luxembourg. This facility is supposed to be a hotel where the current Ljubljana mayor wishes to receive guests. That's how the media reports. Apparently, in this case, it's about tying up the outgoing minister and maybe someone else. Conditions and times require thorough health considerations. Even as a result of the general situation, which has been overcome too much by the failure of the government, new problems are being announced. First, due to the heavy downturn of employees and payers of duties and contributions to the cash registers, including the health register, then due to poor supervision, as not all obligations have been settled for part of the employees as well. That is also why financial problems are increasing in the health insurance company, as well as in the pension register. Both are increasingly providing resources for the operation of both systems and activities covered by them. One for the payment of health services and other health obligations, the other for the payment of pensions. I do not think it is appropriate that all the problems of the health sector be interpreted by the inefficiency of the functioning of the health system or by the unsuspecting work of doctors or by the excessive infirmity of citizens and so on. That's part of the problem. There are also possible and necessary improvements and rationalisation, we are aware of this, but an important part of the problem arises mainly from the economic stagnation. And the basic prerequisite for the rehabilitation of the treasury, to address key issues, is measures to accelerate the economy and measures to accelerate employment. Problems in these systems also raise issues of baskets of rights, compulsory and supplementary insurance, the way health activities are carried out, the situation between public and private health care, the problem of concessional work and business contracts, compulsory or optional membership in the Medical Chamber, etc. The President of the Government has repeatedly talked about the modernisation of systems, including the modernisation of the health system, but because of the general situation in the country, because of the situation we are witnessing, this modernisation can only mean the reduction of rights, the introduction of possibly new payments, the promotion of services for users and so on. And this will also lead to a decrease in user satisfaction. Perhaps because people do not go to a doctor that much, they will also reduce waiting periods and waiting periods. There is certainly a new minister waiting for hard work. If his proposals are good, if they go in the direction of improvements and upgrades, we will support them in the Group of Members. The presentation presented by the candidate for minister suggests that work on improving the health system will be intensified. That's why we're not going to argue with the candidate for minister. Even more so, because his presentation was comprehensive, visual, largely conceptually consistent with our views and programme, we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u20	Thank you. Your Honor! Unlike the predecessor, I'm going to talk about health care and the candidate for minister. We have before us the proposal for a candidate for the Minister responsible for health, Mr Dorjan Marusic. The reasons given in the presentation cannot really be disputed in the Group of Members. That is why we hope that the Slovenian health system will sail into more stable waters in the long term, which will undoubtedly not be able to work. On today's World Health Day, we want a lot of energy and will for the minister's candidate, because we know that there is a new proposal for a Health Act before us, which we cannot fully agree with in the Group of Members. At the time of the creation of the content, the Group has already pointed out certain uncertainties which we expect the Minister to listen to and take due account of. This is about the importance of public health, the proper introduction of private health, the establishment of a health network, the establishment of medical standards and standards, the issue of professional supervision and the status of the Medical Chamber, which has shed light on the whole of Slovenian health care with recent decisions. However, attention should also be paid to the establishment of a new public health quality agency and its effectiveness, and in particular to the competences of healthcare users. The financial situation in the health sector is not envious, the health treasury does not break with health, on the contrary, regardless of the reasons that have arisen in previous periods, which have led to anomalies in the field of medical and other salaries in the health system, it will also be necessary to bite the apple undeniably. Part of the coalition commitment is also the amendment of the Health and Health Insurance Act, for which we will jointly try to establish such financial sustainability that will ensure equal accessibility and efficiency for Slovenian healthcare users. In current political debates on health, either public or effective health often presents a dilemma. However, in the Group, we really believe that the dilemma is only a visual one. As examples of a number of developed countries show, public health, which provides broad accessibility, can undoubtedly be effective. However, not every health care system based on private health care is necessarily an effective system. In the Group of Members, we are aware that there is no candidate for all the answers to the questions raised, including those at yesterday's Health Committee meeting. The fact is that we have committed ourselves to implementing a reform that will increase the accessibility, efficiency and quality of the public health service system and improve its organisation and management. In the Group of Members, we really agree that public health homes must remain fundamental public health providers and become coordinators of health activities in their area. The first step was, as has already been said, taken by the Health Act. However, we expect the competent minister to enter the parliamentary procedure with new ideas that will better regulate and answer some open questions. In the practice of the future minister, there are still two amendments to the legislation. These are areas of medicine and mental health. At first glance, these are not laws that would need such a wide range of coordination, but they are important according to their substance. For this reason, in the Group of Members, we also really expect faster action by the Ministry responsible in this area. In the Zares Group, we offer the Minister's candidate support in the hope that he will follow the guidelines that we are confident will reintroduce or return Slovenian health care close to the top of European health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The President of the Government and the proposaler Borut Pahor made a statement. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Every time we discuss changes in the government, it is a legitimate time to discuss the government itself and its policy. The performances of representatives of the parliamentary groups, which went beyond the definition of a candidate for a minister of health, are, of course, almost inevitable, especially when it comes to performances by non-governmental parties. Now let's take a look at some of my readings and my answers to them. It was said that changes were needed. If and to what extent I can assess for my past work, then I view it as a time of important changes that we have witnessed. Some are more, some are less visible, some have already given results, some will give them. It wasn't all that was done, it was perfect, but we went in the same direction that I promised the public as the prime minister in the fall of 2008. I'm happy with what I've done. To be more than that, the results will have to be even more convincing. But unlike my colleague Tank, who thinks it would be good to have early elections, I think it would be better to have energy, will, on both sides, also the ability, knowledge to implement the exit strategy. The exit strategy, its implementation is a condition for Slovenia to remove the structural obstacles that prevent us from coming to the very top of the developed world. That we are on the right track is shown by the indicators of development. Let us look at some of the other countries that have problems and see the advantages that Slovenia has been able to achieve in the last year of taking responsibility for these changes. Before I go to this discussion, let me tell you. If, as Prime Minister of the Government, it would be useful to replace the government to achieve the goals that we have ahead of us, that would mean: greater competitiveness, greater social cohesion, even greater international reputation of Slovenia, then it would be for voters to redefine themselves. I think that there is no need for this government, not without problems, but very decisively, it is breaking the lines on all the important issues of domestic and foreign policy and that we are actually doing better than we thought we would have done a year ago at that time. Let's look at the results. I propose, and I will also propose to my partners, this as a strategy for the government's behaviour, that we now update all our actions related to the exit strategy. As you know, I do this a week, we'll do everything we can to get Parliament's reports on how things are going, and I'll talk later about my visits to the National Assembly committees, with your permission, Mr President of the National Assembly. According to Banka Slovenije's assessment, we are likely to see economic growth at an annual level of 1.3%. Watch out. Following the collapse of GDP in 2009, Slovenia, as one of the few countries, is forecast to be stable economic growth at annual level. First thing. Second thing. Our survey unemployment rate is 7.2%. Only 0.2% above the level that we as a Government have considered to be not only sustainable in these circumstances, but that envy is a worthwhile result. Third time. I am talking to the finance minister and other colleagues in the crisis group about a possible balance. We will continue to violate public spending in order to reduce the budget deficit. It is not as dangerous as it is in some other countries. Now, my dear colleagues and colleagues, our great neighbours and countries that have a longer tradition and a market economy and democracy, are in great squabbles. I admire my friend Papandreou in his actions against the truly frightening economic and social situation in Greece. Spain has almost 20% unemployment, Portugal - with public debt servicing, it faces a number of problems that I will not continue. Ireland had to admit that it has a hidden debt of 31 billion, that we are not talking about the Baltic countries. Slovenia has all the problems of a manageable nature. All our problems are manageable. With the power of reason, enough courage and clear vision, we can be winners at the end of this year. This does not require early elections. If the National Assembly believes that it is necessary to ask people in the elections, I will ask the party I am leading to trust me again with the mandate to go to these elections and win again. But that's not the point. I would like to, I think this is my responsibility at this point, because I consider 2010 a key year for Slovenia's success, to do its work by the end of the year and to end it with good results. For Christmas I would like to go on vacation for a few days, knowing that in 2010 we fulfilled some of the very noble dreams we had last year. And it is that the collapse of the economy and social security will be brought back to the expectations of our people. One more thing, about my participation in the National Assembly. There were not many heads of government who were ready to come to the Committees on Certain Areas, and I have already done so. And I would like to say, President of the National Assembly, with your permission of course, you are the master of the proceedings in this house to come before the following committees in the coming months: before the Defence Committee - I would like to talk about the Patrio project. We need to redefine it effectively and effectively in a way that is smart, rational for the military and for public finances. I'd like to discuss with you two options that I see as possible. It's foreign policy. Slovenia has found itself in a situation where it has so strengthened its prestige in foreign policy that it has several opportunities that we must not overlook. I would like to consider with the Foreign Policy Committee some of the theses that I have as ideas for our decisions over the coming years and for our integration into the international space. The Committee on the Economy. With the Committee on the Economy, I would like to consult again on some of our energy investments, not only on TES6, but also on some others, including the second block of the nuclear power plant. I'd like to go to the Transport Committee. I would like to go to the Transport Committee because I think we are ahead of an extremely delicate but also a ambitious decision to conclude the rehabilitation of our railways with the knowledge of others, if an agreement were to be reached, and then we will go into the process of modernisation. Since the estimated price is three times higher than the amount of funds required for the motorway cross, we must initially discuss together the method of financing, the way to control the start of this project and, of course, know what the strategic consistency is, which brings all of this. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen! I estimate that despite these problems, which are manageable problems, regardless of here and there, any complications in the coalition government - these too are common. Look what's going on in other governments. It is so everywhere that we all face a situation that is incompatible with the years following World War II. However, I never, today much less believe that the economic recession is now over or that the economic crisis - this continues - is some reason for the great success or failure of our government. I think we've handled this pretty well and we have to practice in our own hands now. Now it is about finally doing something that we are never: that we are able to enforce what we have concluded is good for the interests of our country. We are also trying to eliminate this implementation deficit by pushing ourselves before the public as quickly as possible. And the National Assembly will receive laws concerning the exit strategy of all twenty-seven. And this will be a heavy matter that will have to be discussed here very delicately. I therefore appreciate that, despite the fact that there are people sitting on the government with their heads on their shoulders, I expect them to think with it, without either bowing to me or just being stubbornly irritated. Let each of us think with our heads to work for the common good, to work for the success of this government and this country. That is why I think that this work would apply, irrespective of these small problems and cramps that come and are an integral part of the democratic vertigo in each country, to continue courageously, ambitiously forward, even more with a hand in hand with the National Assembly, so I agree, including with the social partners, and to implement what we have promised the people. I therefore appreciate that despite the problems that are objective and subjective, the Government is doing well to keep the promises it has made, nothing is striving for any popularity, or I am today the popular Prime Minister or not, I am not interested in much. I'm more interested in whether people trust me in judgment. This, of course, interests me as a policy, because trust is the key capital that we as a public figure have. These two things are separate. A person can be very popular, but it is not necessary for people to trust him in decisions. What I want is to strengthen people's confidence that I am deciding for our common good, that I am making wise decisions, and that I am also ambitious. That I am able to do this, I have already proved, in two months, I hope, that the referendum will show the success of solving one very difficult foreign policy problem. It will also turn out that we will make two or maybe three large-scale internal policy solutions this year, so that by the end of this year it will certainly not be boring for the inventory of this government's decisions. I think it's worth supporting her in her pursuits. And let me take advantage of this for the end, the National Assembly today to support the candidate for Minister of Health, Dr. Marusich, to support someone who is now entering the playground, which, I will say, is very slippery, wet, but has an extraordinary condition, has knowledge, experience, and I hope that he will kill as many health problems as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Jože Tank's replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! I don't think anyone's ever changed the goal we had set. It is said that Slovenia is developing 3% faster to have more economic growth than the average of the European Union. This means that in this crisis period Slovenia should also fall by 3% less than the average of the European Union. That's the point. It would be good, however, given that you have the chief financier of the previous term of the National Assembly beside you to disclose the data, whether we are still achieving these goals, that we have fallen by 3% less in the previous year than the average of the European Union, or not. I think we have fallen more than the average of the European Union, because our slide between economic growth in 2008 and economic growth in 2009 was about 15%. And now you're actually talking about that at these minus 15% we've achieved great success because we're growing or we're supposed to grow 1.3%. This probably cannot be a good result, for to capture the situation in 2008 and the dynamics that were then, we will need about 10 years if this is exponential or a percentage per percent count. That's how it is. And I also have a problem with this constant comparison of you to keep comparing yourself with those who are the worst in Europe. And then we look good, great. Why do we not compare ourselves with Czechs or Poles who have achieved significantly better economic growth results in the crisis year 2009 as well? Why not look at what measures they then took to achieve this? That's dynamics, and that would be the way. And there's something else about the story about Patrio. Mr Cwickl was the head of the commission of inquiry in the previous term, which investigated the Patria case. And when he was in that position, he had a very clear goal and a plan: if we come into office to decide that, we will immediately terminate all business with Patrio. Why are you bringing this story back to the National Assembly now? Ask Mr Squill what needs to be done, so that this case with Patrio will simply be resolved and that we will not tire out the citizens, not the National Assembly with business concerning Patrio. This is your business. And I think that all those things that were so expressed and so produced in the previous term would be easily solved by one move at a time, if that is so simple and if there are arguments for it. Mr. Squeakl said that if the shadow of doubt as to the fact that this business was carried out corruptly, things would be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u25	Mr. Tank, time for the replica is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u26	I'll finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u27	Please, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u28	These answers need to be found where they are. However, I would like to know whether we are in this objective of being 3% better than the average of the European Union, whether we are not, in economic growth and also in 2009, which has expired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u29	The President of the Government shall have the floor, which may appear at any time during the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u30	Slovenia wants to compare itself with the best. After having a working meeting of the Government, then a formal, formal meeting of the Government before final decisions on, say, Slovenia's new strategic placement in the European and international environment, I would also like to discuss it with the Committee on Foreign Policy and some other committees. I would like to draw Europe to its first speed, which requires some action at home and in foreign policy. That means we're going with the fastest, the best. That means, ladies and gentlemen, we'll probably be last in town. I'm alone with the ones who'd rather be the last in town than the first in the village. In order not to say more today than is necessary for this debate, I will soon come to the National Assembly with a proposal for a strategy that Slovenia would politically, economically, securityly and otherwise, with some alliances, consolidate in the areas of the most dynamic, the fastest, the most competitive today, to bring it together to their ambitions, which means, as it is said, that we will decide that we will be last in the city for at least some time, but I think it is still better than that we are first in the village. But I want us to make this decision together. When you're talking about comparison, I'd like to compare with the best, and I think we're gonna make it, without it, we don't have a ticket to this elite club.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Tanko, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, two months ago we adopted a strategy. In fact, we in the National Assembly no longer need a debate on the strategy, we have adopted an exit strategy, we have adopted a systemic approach by the Government to get out of the crisis, you have put all these measures into a traffic light, it is true, there is only one green light on this traffic light, that is, one law, which was adopted even before the exit strategy, that is the Minimum Wage Act. All the other measures are late, they're gone. You will propose measures if, by the end of the year, you detect them from these activities of the government, ministers. These measures will not be taken in 2010. These are measures to be taken in the next business year in 2011. Logically, if we adopt something that has an expiry date and adjustments in September, then it is certain that this will only happen in the next business year, for anyone, only court decisions will solve the matter in another way. It is not right to mislead the Slovenian public in order to resolve 2010 with these measures, which you will once propose. We will depend entirely on the actions of other countries, trade countries and other partners, and we will be the collateral consequence of those measures because we have not taken our own. We have not adopted any economic incentives to stimulate economic growth, except social measures. Social measures, however, are complementary measures by nature. We need to take social measures, but only in the case of those entities for which these key development measures do not take place. But we do not have development measures, and everything that has concentrated in this work is actually focused on the social field. And in this period, instead of encouraging the economy and taking responsibility for these purposes, we issue bond banks, the National Assembly adopts guarantee laws. All these measures, all of this money, which we are giving in this way, do not produce any results, no economic effects. And that is why the problem in all those segments is also the state cash and social and pension registers, where in one year about 100,000 active payers were lost in these systems. This is why there are problems in pension work and also in the area of medical bills. It will not be possible to resolve these things simply by shifting the revenue between the state budget and the pension and health allowance, because we are also actively using all those things and those funds that we should otherwise spend on development for investment. Unfortunately, the state budget will remain essentially intended to cover transfer policy rather than investment policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u33	Three minutes, Mr. Tanko, please close the debate. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. We are back to today’s topic, the second item of today’s extraordinary session. I would like to talk about the support I intend to give Mr Marusic today for the Minister of Health, but my support for his appointment is not unconditional, which is about the realisation of some of his promises, so I will be careful how they come true. It is also an expression of confidence in expertise, Mr Marusic. Trust in his knowledge of health systems, the values presented and the ability to make those changes, in health care that are necessary to eliminate the anomalies of the health system, the anomalies that are mainly due to commercialisation and the privatisation of public health. No one is satisfied with the proposal for a Health Act and the draft Health and Health Insurance Act. In his presentation, Mr Marusič highlighted the health values and objectives of the team that had failed both laws. These include, in particular, the recovery of universal health care, adequate access to health services for the population, solidarity expressed in the financing of health care by means of property and the reallocation of health resources according to the health needs of the population, and equality. These values and objectives supported by the World Health Organisation, followed by the European Union Health Strategy 2008-2013, have been particularly highlighted in the presentation of the Minister's candidate. The decision based on analysis and orientation in the health needs of the population is what Mr Marusic promises and what we have missed in the health field in the team so far. A different approach offers the possibility of constructive dialogue between the future Minister of Health and the civil and professional public. With the promised approach, it is possible to go beyond the current wide range of views on individual issues and to focus on meeting public interest. In order to deliver on the reform promises of Mr Marusič, it is also necessary to treat the health of the population differently by the Government and to provide a more professional team at the Ministry of Health. Why is there a need for different government support? Because it concerns changes in the health of the population of all departments, from the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs to the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Transport Ministry and other ministries. The health of the population is affected only in a small part by the direct influence of the Minister of Health and can be influenced by the people themselves. What will be the health of the population depend primarily on the degree of poverty in society, the working conditions that can affect injuries and diseases, the degree of stress in the service and home, the healthy natural environment, the values in society, also the differences in income between people and everything that affects greater or less satisfaction and happiness of the population. There are studies that confirm that the government has the most leverage to influence the health of the country's population. And why is it necessary to provide an expert team at the Ministry of Health? The current team was unable to formulate proposals for those laws in order to pursue public interest in the law. She has not been able to follow the progress made in the last 20 years in the field of health. It did not consider the basic postulate of health changes, whereby the public concerned should participate in essential health decisions. The law was therefore designed to measure capital and lobby. The law-making team was deaf to the health needs of the population and to the values followed by the developed countries in the world and in the European Union. I therefore rightly expect a change of team, a set of professionally competent staff, teams at the Ministry of Health capable of working in the public interest. Without a competent team, it is not possible to expect promised changes. Since these two conditions were not met, a bill could be drawn up to transform health care homes and hospitals into profitable businesses, which would also carry out market or self-payment activities that would be managed by the administrations and supervised by the supervisory councils. We have therefore received a proposal for a law where there is no equal impact of users and health service providers in the management of public health institutions. That is why we have received a proposal for a law allowing the further destruction of public health homes and hospitals by the allocation of funds and health programmes to private institutions. The concession contracts for 15 to 25 years would prevent public health regulation in the long term. That's why we got a privatisation law that undermines the concept of maintaining public health at the necessary height. It is the introduction of market mechanisms into the health system, its privatisation and commercialisation, which is harmful and results in the distribution of health rights by international and domestic experience. The candidate for Minister, Mr Marušič, promises to separate the public from the private in financing and in carrying out health and ownership activities. He is able to identify and eliminate conflicts of interest between public and private. I therefore expect amendments to the contested law, which legalises public abuse for the benefit of private concessionaires and public health institutions. It is not acceptable that concessionaires in a healthcare home or in hospitals in the same place, with the same means and even at the same time, should be able to carry out public, self-paying or marketing activities. These harmful phenomena are intended to end the candidate for a minister, as well as to skip waiting types and divide the population into two categories when accessing health services. The analytical approach and the decision based on arguments, which is promised by Mr Dorjan Marusic, the candidate for Minister of Health, also provides for the possibility of changes in the field of the public powers of the Chamber, to which the candidate has not yet been clearly identified in the presentations. For this reason, I expect that in the coming months the two contested laws will be substantially amended in the direction of a ministerial candidate's promise. As the laws are important for the health of the population, for the social cohesion of society, for the value, for the system and for the economic progress of society, I am confident that the work of the new Minister of Health will be closely monitored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is France Tsukati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting, Mr. President, and everyone who's here. Mr Marušič is, in fact, a prominent face in politics. He was secretary in two mandates, and politics is not new to him either. The Health Act is new. He enters health policy again at a time when this law is at the beginning of the hearing in the National Assembly. And it is on the basis of this law that its views and its appropriateness as a minister can also be assessed. What is really typical of this law in health care? First, a conflict with doctors or a radical conflict with those who are supposed to carry out the law. However, Mr Marušič takes the big opposition of medical and health professionals to this law seriously and says he wants to find some consensus, some point of order, some agreement with those who will then implement the law. That makes sense. That's what we consider good for him. The second feature of this law is the abolition of concessions. The law provides that concessions in basic health care will be granted only with the consent of the healthcare home. Which healthcare home will give consent to grant concessions and allow competition to itself? That makes sense. As regards this relationship to concessions, he has the view that it is necessary to first analyse what concessions have brought, what has been wrong with the award of concessions and whether the concession activity for patients is worse than the activity of employed doctors. Of course, we agree with this, in which we rule out this position, because we feel that it does not matter to the patient whether he is a healthy concessionaire or an employed doctor, because he wants only to be provided qualityly at the expense of a health insurance company, kindly and quickly provided, nothing else. In this regard, we agree with him that an analysis should be made first of all as to whether concessions should be abolished. Clearly, if this is bad for patients, it is necessary to stop them if they are good and if the activity and satisfaction with the concession activity are greater, then it is unwise to act as proposed in the Health Act. The third feature of the Health Act is the establishment of monopolies. The aim of abolishing concessionaires is to establish monopolies. We have seen such a case in Ljubljana, in Ljubljana's pharmacies. The Bitenc pharmacy was confiscated. I don't know if the trial is still ongoing or not. The wish of Ljubljana Pharmacy or owner of Ljubljana City Municipality is to control the entire area and to market the drugs in its own way. Therefore, it is not surprising that the appetite of the pharmacy after profit is great and that the Municipality of Ljubljana wants to have a monopoly throughout the area. This is not what the debate was about. This was not identified by the candidate. However, on the basis of his other performances, I have a feeling that he is not excited about establishing monopolies in a way that is to be taken away from concessions. The fourth feature of this law, which is now under consideration in the National Assembly, is the expulsion of the profession from the health authorities. It states that there must not be a doctor in the management who carries out a medical activity or allows a maximum of one fifth of the time to carry out a medical activity, which means that no doctor will accept it, since if he does not carry out at least a third of the time of his medical activity, he will not have a licence or extended licence within six years; the extension of the licence shall be withdrawn. The minister's candidate opposes this, clearly because he himself says he will continue to work as a doctor as a minister. If he can work as a minister as a doctor, he will probably not support this requirement in the Health Act that a physician in the management of a public institution should not operate a medical activity. That's what we consider good for him. Then the next feature of the Health Act is the deletion of the public-private partnership. Here he gave a fine example that he should not work at the same time in the public service and at the same time in private activities, but the question of public-private partnership is much broader. And here, too, he did not touch on the broader concept of public-private partnership, as Dr Pirnat mentioned in his public presentation of opinions on the Health Act, where he said, do not build walls between public and private, because it is not European, which Europe will not allow. Why not? I'm just saying a case. For example, in Germany, you can go to any doctor, even in fact, not only a declaration, is the free choice of a doctor, you can go completely to the private, if a greater intervention is envisaged, do this private budget procedure, you go to Krankenkasse and they tell you, under our rules we will cover so much of the price, 40, 60% and 60% of the price that we recognize to the public health service. That's the cooperation. It's a simple choice of doctors. In such a case Slovenian, a Slovenian patient living on his feet would go to a private person in the Pink Valley or a private institute would make an estimate, go to the insurance company and say, "Yes, we'll pay so much and so much by our rules." What does that mean? This means that such a system, such a partnership, a public-private partnership means unloading the public health service, appreciating the activities, releasing waiting lines in the public health service, nothing else. And the candidate did not have time to determine this, but from his thinking, which is quite lifelike and ideologically unburdened, he would consider that such a European approach would not disturb him. The last feature of the Health Act is the tendency to decommission the Medical Chamber by abolishing compulsory membership, depriving it of specialization powers and not just professional supervision, etc. Of course, here is the design of the breakdown of the Medical Chamber. Here the candidate was very clear and said: "I do not imagine how the Ministry could take over all the powers and tasks performed by the Medical Chamber in a short time or in a few years." We agree, for here too, we need to analyze, see what compulsory membership is for, what the congregation should do, what it might have done wrong, what it did well. I must say that we are the only country in the former communist bloc that has European regulated specialisations. 50 different specialisations, 50 different programmes, which are fully synchronized with European standards. With us specialization, you can go anywhere in Europe is recognized. Hungary does not, Czech Republic does not, Slovakia does not. An analysis should be made to determine whether it is a public interest that these powers continue to be exercised in the framework of the Chamber or not. If they are, then it should be determined whether or not mandatory membership is required. Certainly, compulsory membership should not be granted at the request of doctors, at the request of the Chamber, but, if necessary, whether we need it or not. Here we agree with Mr Marušić. The law is here, the minister will be appointed tomorrow or now, he'll be on duty tomorrow. If the law is adopted as proposed, as it is at the hearing, then, of course, it will be signed under this proposal, under this law, and this law will be his monument to it. A monument that will be ashamed of his whole life - I'm sure. All my life. But if he changes it, if he changes it in these points that I have mentioned, then I ask what will be left of this law. What? Nothing! Also a public agency, well, the one that can work because things are already running. What's left?Oh, my God! Nothing! Is this a health reform?Oh, my God! If he changes the only option I see - I don't know if he will succeed - it is that in the general debate the law withdraws, because, as it is, it cannot be converted into a pleasant text. [[...]] And then he sets up his experience, his knowledge, all that he also said between the lines, what he needed to do and prepare a new draft. I don't know if he's gonna make it. I also have a feeling that, in fact, with his rational approach, I would say, a technocratic approach, a life approach, a knowledge of the problem, an ideological non-burden does not actually belong to this government team, among these "perles" of some ministers and we do not predict a happy ending. It has too much life experience, too deep in health care and too much to feel what is wrong with such programs, with such ideas, of course, as you advocate in the coalition. We, and me, will support him. But it's his risk. He can still step down.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Janja Klasinc has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u38	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I am not a health expert myself, but health care concerns me as much as any other citizen of this country, so I think that Slovenians deserve a better health system, although I am confident that our current one is not among the worst. This morning on the radio, I listened to a contact show with listeners in which the conductor asked the audience what they would be willing to sacrifice, given that the health treasury was facing a big financial hole, and what they would be willing to sacrifice for the financial situation in health. To tell you the truth, there were good suggestions. Some even denied that anything should be sacrificed. Then one of the listeners came forward and said that he would gladly sacrifice long waiting types and superficial and nervous behaviour of health workers toward patients. I'm telling you, I agree with him myself. I'd rather sacrifice it myself. I see the rationalisation of health care and its regulation in better organisation of work, not in the marriage of acquired rights. As an individual, I would like everyone to have the right, whenever they need medical care, to receive this assistance immediately and in good quality. The predecessors discussed the public-private dilemma. I'll tell you my personal relationship. I am a patient with the general doctor of the concessionaire, and I am pleased with this activity. I think that between the public, which I personally give priority to, and the private, a smart solution must be reached, with smart cooperation between the two, especially in those areas and areas of Slovenia where it cannot publicly cover all health needs. I would not like to see anything happen to us in Slovenia in general and specialist health activities, what happened to us in the area of one branch of health care, namely dental care. I think that in dental care we are facing a criminal situation where people who do not have enough resources walk around Slovenia, because they cannot pay a dentist, because most dentists have decided to make good money and go into private activities. In this area, I expect a candidate for a new minister to make significant changes. I would also like better arrangements in the field of mental health, which we have also faced in the past in Slovenia, which is not yet well regulated, and especially in the field of medicine, where there is considerable confusion. Personally, I will give the case, I see no reason why Slovenia should not open the door to a homeopathic drug. I think that we are one of the few European countries that do not allow this option, and we well know that many of these options are being served both in Slovenia and abroad. Now I could list a series of my wishes, but it makes no sense, because my wishes are in fact no different from the wishes of the average Slovenian. The candidate for the new Minister, Dorijan Marusic, said that a person, an individual, and a doctor would be at the forefront of his work. I strongly agree with him on this. Without a good relationship between the patient and the doctor, there is no way to get better health. I would not agree with Dr. Cuckati, who thought that the intention of the coalition in preparing this law was to attack doctors, on the contrary, we would like to avoid what the listener said earlier, that doctors would be elevated to their patients, that they would be nervous and the listener himself, and that I would join his opinion, he said that this was happening several times because doctors were overloaded. And not just doctors and nurses. So let's find a co-existence between the two of us. Dr Marusič has enough knowledge, he has enough work experience, as far as I know him personally, I think he has enough personal qualities to achieve all the goals I have talked about in part with the legislation, but in my opinion he can do much more with efforts to improve the organisation and effectiveness of the entire healthcare system. In the hope that the activity of the Ministry of Health, Dr Marusič, will lead in this direction, I will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u39	Thank you. Mrs Klasinc, I'm sorry I can't replicate it, I'd like to replicate it very much, but I don't think it's a good place to speak. Mr. Crossman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The candidate for Minister of Health presented himself very well on the committee yesterday. In an hour and a half, he covered all the areas that are important for the well-functioning of health care. Dorijan Marušič first started his career as a doctor, later was Director of Izola Hospital, was Secretary of State, Counsellor, today as a candidate, practically one of the few and in this sense practically complete candidates. Even after seeing things on the committee, it was obvious that he had a very well-designed program of his vision, how he would lead the health department, because even from the opposition side they did not oppose; even vice versa, they were deeply in agreement with some things, which gives us all the guarantee that today we will still confirm the man who will lead the health department to the satisfaction of all Slovenes. My question, which I asked on the committee, would now be briefly stated, went in the direction of the hospitals. I asked him how he sees the merger of hospitals, for example, in Primorskie, because I know them a little better because we have a few hospitals, I think five miles away or not 100 kilometers away. All these hospitals invest each one for themselves, everyone almost wants to be autonomous for themselves, and here the candidate sees big reserves. He will probably go to networking hospitals to choose Primorska or any other region as a pilot project, which will show how much money can be saved if, even in this part of health care, he rationally approaches spending funds on purchases, if you want, expensive appliances, because it happens to us that they even have the same apparatus in two above-grounds - that is, unfortunately, we read in newspapers yesterday because some people don't know how to talk to each other. Here he responded positively and also addressed the rationalisation of hospitals, especially as he himself pointed out: "It is necessary to cut the Gordy knot of investment". We have very, very large investments in health care. The ways in which this money goes through until it reaches its goal are irrational and often harmful. If the candidate succeeds in these areas, where there is a large outflow of money, to do what he has talked about, then of course we also have a guarantee that savings will undoubtedly be large in this area. With regard to the Chamber, which has been quite recently in the media, I believe that the candidate has prepared very well to resolve this problem, or to advise on how to resolve this problem without haste, without creating further conflicts, because the situation at this time in the Chamber of Government is not what I mean about the members of the Chamber, but the management of this Chamber is certainly not proud of those in this Chamber. Therefore, I am pleased that the candidate has also entered this item into his agenda and highlighted it as a priority. I am sure that Mr Dorijan Marusic will be confirmed today as a candidate for the Minister of Health. I'm sure he'll be doing a great job on the ministerial team, and he'll also be a welcome refreshment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. I must say that today, when we elect a new minister, we are still talking about the candidate, it is only right to say more. First of all, it is thanks to Mr Miklavčič for the work he has done so far, whether we are fully or slightly less satisfied with all the results. He put a lot of energy into this story, invested himself, and apparently too much of his health. What about the candidate, the esteemed Dr. Marusich? It's an interesting combination. He's a mathematician, he's a doctor, he's also a politician. Mathematicians are prepared to solve problems and doctors to diagnose and prescribe therapy. If, of course, the day goes on with what he showed at the presentation, then a good and successful story awaits us. None of us, of course, can solve all the problems at once, but reflections and both certainly go in the right direction. It all starts and ends with people, and on the other hand, it ends with money. Slovenians and Slovenes are of great importance, great value. We are spending as much as 9% of GDP on it, so in this story, it is also right that we strive to use the resources that we find difficult to raise because of serious times, smartly, soberly, rationally. On the other hand, for time and decision, if we are to devote more resources to this sphere in one way or another, then we must also make a decision, but there will be a result of some Patria less and some meter of asphalt and something else that is not necessarily necessary for everyday life - we will give it up at the expense of health. We talked a lot about health legislation, we touched on the one hand, probably too few of those to whom health care is mostly directed - patients, patients and, on the other hand, parallels with doctors. Of course, we do not want legislation and solutions that are intended only for doctors, but we want fast, timely, friendly, professionally-treated patients, without privileges, without skipping types, and also well-motivated doctors who will recognize that their day has only 24 hours and that we are aware that they must also be paid for normally. Of course, I don't think someone gets much more than a lot in this country for a weekend on call. All these things must have their limits and also the thought that it is necessary to move forward also in the light of the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. I think it's in place. I support voluntary membership, because the Chambers, which will be good, quality, will give their members satisfaction, and above all the feeling that they need to save them a few hours and lead to better solutions, the voluntary members will have enough. Those who, of course, do not carry out tasks are not just health care, but they will be seriously tempted to think about their work. We have also talked many times about the concession and about the separation in public and in private. We certainly want to see as much public health as possible that health centres and health institutions are health centres, but that the concessionaires, which are an important part of the public health network, are not at all wrong. And that when, of course, someone who has a different view of developing their activities, if it is in the interest of local communities, of course, that we also grant him a concession, because the satisfaction of the patient is essential, rapid, timely and effective treatment. The example of dentistry was also mentioned that many of the good, best dentists and dentists went to the private sector. Of course, how could it not, if the standard prescribed by the system, the good, quality doctors can achieve half their working time, and then they have to tell the patient, sorry, for this month we have spent all the points, I can't and can't take you. And here's the big problem. If we can stimulate doctors and dentists to work, not wait for senseless restrictions. I have recently read an interview with a respected Slovenian doctor who needs to have a doctor in the same room on the same machines this afternoon continue his work for an additional payment so that he needs a fight of €60 and nothing more for a doctor this afternoon. I think this is the right way and the right thought that the health system, which is still good and solid in Slovenia, can be upgraded and improved. Whoever saw Dr Marusich's presentations then saw that he was thinking innovatively, that he was aware of the reality of the moment he was in, and I am sure that, at least in some of the essential areas, he would make good and useful use of it. I, in my name and on behalf of the Group of Members, can promise cooperation and assistance. I am sure that he will be successful on his way, and I wish him a happy and successful work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Tessel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u44	Nicely greeted. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. Yesterday's performance by Dr. Marusich on the Health Committee was very convincing. Thematics have been systematically, analytically, professionally, with all his experiences in this field, which he has practically all his career in life. That is why it inspires confidence and I am confident that it will receive the support of both the coalition and the opposition. Sam was part of the health system after the study and felt the rigidity of this system when he decided to specialise, which he sympathetically said to the committee yesterday as symptomatic. Since he did two colleges, he was too old and not qualified to specialize in surgery or gynecology. Well, that's how he was good at internal medicine, where he turned out to be a top expert. He was also in charge of internal medicine, it is said that he was a middle manager and then a professional director - as a top manager. He continued his work in politics at the Ministry as State Secretary and in recent years at the Department of Health Insurance as a consultant in this field. So, he was the performer from the lowest to the highest point in health care, the planner, the supervisor and also the financier in the system, so that he really has all the grounds that he can work differently in this area than has been done so far. Trust also flows to doctors, since the doctor is a doctor of the soul and heart, since in the past a number of doctors in such situations have done tremendous harm to the medical condition, to the relationship between doctors and patients. Of course, it'll be hard to fix, but a man like Dr. Marusich will be able to fix it. Of course, not alone, for we know that one person cannot do much, but he can do it with good cooperation, which he realizes, and he said it at yesterday’s performance. It will work with all organisations, contractors, policies, insurance companies, as it will only move things slowly towards progress. He wasn't talking about reform. He was talking about upgrading the health system. The Health Act is at this time the hottest topic, the hottest bone. I'm a little afraid because we all expect from this as much as possible, both on your side and on our side, that the Minister with the magic wand will please everything we expect from this law. This is nice, though, but if this bill is withdrawn and put on a new one, it may be the closest reality. Some things cannot be fixed and eliminated according to articles, but only by content. For, for all the questions, we cannot say for all the problems that he had the answer, but at least he was willing to deal with the problem, analyze it, and then bring it together to a better end. It is also necessary to be aware of the financial problems that health care has and will never be without problems. Unfortunately, in the last year, the medical treasury has failed to achieve what it has planned. The needs, we know, are increasing with the ageing of the population every year, and the tides in the economic crisis are shrinking. He said that more emphasis should be given to the medium management in health, which is also able to do better in times of crisis, with better organisation of what is necessary. For the middle management is those, these are the heads of the department, the chief nurses, the heads of the services who know only the problems of certain professions in health and employees. And it's these middle-level managers, I don't know how they can stimulate, convince them that they're going to work differently, or even more intensely. For we know that this is also a pay-per-view medicine. And there may also be some changes in this area that are not stimulating. We know that health care in Slovenia is still good, aware that operators, at least in most percent, I hope that 95.97% of both doctors and nurses are doing well and that the system is still so good. This is also what the President of the Government said last week after visiting the Clinical Center that we still have such good health care for so little money. Nice to meet you, too. I am sure, as he stressed, that this good cooperation in all areas can slowly move this wagon forward. There's nothing you can do quickly except do something bad. But for good it takes time, conversation, coordination, cooperation. I think the right person is in the right place, so we'll back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Brultz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u46	Thank you very much. First of all, it's Mr. Marušić, not Márušič. In Primorsk we do not have Márušič, so as not to entangle this name, which is very simple. Of course, first of all, let my thanks go to Mr Miklavčič, who literally burned down to make health care better tomorrow. Mr Marušič is, of course, an expert, as has been mentioned several times today, a good doctor of health financing and when he speaks about the development of health care in Slovenia, it is very important to me that he speaks of the fact that health services will also be accessible to socially disadvantaged groups of citizens and citizens. I think it's very important. However, the expectations of all users of health services are, of course, high. Even in Goriška, where I come from, for example, we cannot understand and accept that oncological patients from Nova Gorica must travel to Ljubljana for a short period of therapy, although these treatments could also be received in our hospital, which has appropriate experts, techniques, and appropriate pharmacy. How is it possible that oncology in Ljubljana, for example, prevents this activity in Nova Gorica, because they are themselves overloaded. What patients experience on 300 or more kilometers of long driving, it is not possible to mention. Of course, there is nothing wrong with building a trauma center, which is also urgently needed, with the number of residents, with the number of tourists coming to our area, mainly adrenaline sports on the Soča River, paragliding and more. We also have very well organised treatment for cardiovascular diseases, which are of course very present in our area, and we also welcome the hospital's concern that they can offer top-notch services in this area. Let me mention microsurgery, obstetrics, and something else that's well-developed. Why am I bringing up all this hospital services? Because in the past, it has shown that this hospital could become one of the largest health homes in the world. Of course, knowing that, for example, from Bovec to hospital in Izola, if I say, as far as Nova Gorica to Maribor, means that no competition between hospitals in this area is necessary and is not considered. Of course, specialization will be required, as has already been said. Each regional hospital cannot offer all services as a clinical centre. There are, of course, a number of challenging tasks ahead of the future minister. Perhaps the cost of the operation, I am now very simplifying, is paid the same way the appendicitis in the Clinical Center is in a regional hospital. There is no reason for all Ljubljanaians, or if I get hurt now, I will receive top-notch care at the Clinical Center because the hospital is not actually here. However, because we live along the border, and also because there are quite a few activities in their hospital, such as obstetrics, in the neighbouring Gorica, it is of particular importance for us to have cross-border cooperation. Of course, offering services to patients from Italy is also financially profitable. However, this demands a lot of negotiation, because things are tied to the pay, to the payment of services, to the legal safety of our doctors and much more, and also here our expectations are great. That's the end of it. We must also not forget the prevention they have to implement in health care in order to make as little use of health services as possible. In my mind I have just a trifle, we'll say, otherwise it's very important in the preventive part of health care, it's the teething of school and preschool children. Zobovje is a picture of society's concern for the health of our people and the more we go to the underdeveloped parts of this world, the more people without teeth. In order for this not to happen to us, such a preventive approach is therefore extremely important. I have great confidence in the candidate. I am sure that the work will be done well, but of course it will also have to be done to help him, not to throw pollen under his feet and lay conditions that are not real. I wish him a successful job for the benefit of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna spend these few minutes trying to pull over at two points. The first is, of course, the affection for Dr Marusic's candidacy, for various reasons. The first reason is for sure that Mr Marusich is a man with experience. I myself have had the opportunity to get to know him through his work in the past, in past mandates, and therefore what the candidates represent as their programmes, such a personal experience as their platforms, is certainly something that encourages me to give my support to his candidacy. The knowledge that has been mentioned many times today has also not been problematic. I also think that it is important to note that some of the personality characteristics and motivation of the candidate can be very important. With regard to one more such feature, it seems to me that it was at a time when, to my surprise, all of Dr. Dorian Marusic's support for the exchange of the minister was absent three years ago when I thought that the professional decision for the candidate would be more appropriate than the political one that happened then. As far as Mr Marusic's candidacy is concerned, I am fully in favour of his name. Of course, I wish him all the best on his professional and political path, which he will carry out. The second point, however, is the neural point of funding. We have some idea of what the legislation in preparation means and what other candidates for the minister have said about it. Therefore, it is primarily about whether we estimate that the resources for health care are sufficient, or whether more are needed. There are very different grades here. I think we need more than that, but not in the situation we're in right now. Now with these resources available to health care, with better organisation of work, with rationalisation, with optimization, we would probably be able to carry out even better health care. However, this will be too little for the future, for the time to come, for it is not possible to overlook that new methods are needed, new ways are being treated. Therefore, demographics also require that expertise and scientific knowledge should somehow be translated into operational life, into everyday life and for this, but also for material health conditions, some more resources are likely to be needed in the future. I do not mean, almost never, the percentage in the social gross product, because it is so matured that we immediately come to the situation where because our social product has fallen, but, for example, the absolute amount for health care remains the same, we get the impression that now the health care is making a substantial amount of money for the activity. It's not like that. It's just that relationships have changed. And in times when the economy will flourish slightly more when the higher social gross product is available, at the same percentage we will have more resources for development, for professional fulfilment, so that doctors can work on better terms and conditions, and that the care of those who need it will be of quality and really accessible when needed, not at some very remote time. However, I believe that the dichotomy, which was somehow created, probably due to political ambitions, between patients and between doctors, but overcome, must be exceeded because I cannot imagine how we could favour one half more than the other. When I get sick, I think about the doctor first, and I want doctors, that is, in the health system, to be able to do everything possible for professional development and for the good of their work. And I therefore hope that Dorijan Marushič will be one of the better ministers who will also be able to do something on this path.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr Dojan Marusic, candidate for Minister, is a good candidate. He has put public interest at the forefront, that is to say, a patient who should be considered to have gained his rights and services, regardless of his material position, skin colour, religion or any political definition. This is a principle that is urgently needed in the context of the retention of absolute solidarity in the field of health rights, and this is the starting point that encouraged me to look at how he defended his candidacy yesterday on the Committee on Health and Social Affairs. I must say that I am pleased that he does not see the need for wider privatisation and concessions, although I believe that you will have to be granted, especially where doctors do not want to work, is said on the periphery. We often talk about balancing, but it is important to know that there was a time when distant places had better wages. When I was working alone in Zreč, Styria, I had a 25% higher salary than that doctor who worked in Ljubljana. already Celjani had 10% more basic salary, and in Kozyanski the salary was 40% higher for doctors to come and cover the area accordingly. And we could do the same today, but there would be no problem, or in combination with the award of concessions. In short, here are the reserves the candidate sees. I must say that he has rightly noticed that the problem is that the basic level of health care is being maintained and needs priority assistance. This priority has been frequently discussed in the past, but it has never been achieved, although doctors know that all the pressure on secondary equal and clinical institutions is actually created at the basic level. If the basic level works poorly, the species are longer in specialists. And I believe that here, for the first time - with stimulating rewards, secondly - with better organisation of work, thirdly - with responsible management in the area of management and organisation of work of health care to make substantial progress, thus reducing pressure to a secondary and tertiary level and thus to make more rational use of the resources available to health care. It is wrong to believe that more money also means better operation or better accessibility. America consumes disproportionately more money on a social scale, a health product, but 30% of Americans do not have practical access to health services and die without prior health care. And half of all Americans are worse off than our people are in the exercise of health rights, because they do not have enough money to pay for that expensive health care, which does not offer a timely and fair opportunity to exercise rights for all citizens. And here the candidate's view is extremely important. I'm also happy to see reserves elsewhere, as usual. Of course, it is right that he also thinks about a creative agreement with the contractors, says doctors of health activities. I am sure that most doctors believe that at a given time they cannot require significantly higher wages and benefits to be satisfied with this and also work very well. The problem is in a small group of very demanding doctors who think that wealth needs to be provided for them, no matter what remains for everyone else. And in this respect, his view of the need to act in accordance with objective options is correct and, in this respect, the candidate is also worthy of my trust and support. I believe that he has the necessary knowledge and experience and therefore I support him as a candidate, but of course we will follow his solutions and, in accordance with the solutions offered, we will also make a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u51	Thank you. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President Tsukati. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that, in his opening presentation to the Committee on Health, the candidate for Minister Dorijan Marusic has made it clear that there is no ideal health system, that we can build it up and get closer to the high goals. It is nice and good that he has a vision that he has a positive attitude towards health and, in particular, public health. In his introductory address, he made it clear that the State must take care of the public health system or health care and on the basis of clearly presented criteria for disease, demographic trends, economic development and development of health technologies, which require a realistic assessment of the real needs of the population and cover them in the public health system by public means. In view of the fact that we have entered the European Union, where health ministers were identified four years ago and were aware of the common values that we have always known in Slovenia and which we have always tried to integrate into the public health system. And these are: universality, accessibility, solidarity and equality. Everyone should have access to health care, access to a system that will be quality and, in particular, to a system that will be solidarity. This means that all citizens will contribute according to their capabilities and gain services according to the fairness of accessibility and thus ensure equality of access for all. This means that this equal access to health services will not be bound by sex, social status or even the ability and capacity to pay. He presented his vision of how this system will be long-term solidarity and, in particular, sustainability. I personally expect a clear definition of the famous basket of services, as this is the basis and prerequisite for all other interventions. I believe and hope that it will consistently implement the basis of the social model of health care, both in such a way that health and health services will not be regarded as ordinary market goods, but also as public goods in particular. Access to health care is also one of the civil rights guaranteed to all who are and will be included in the public system. The World Health Organisation strategy for all in the 21st century is only slowly being implemented, as it is not easy to achieve high goals because they are based on the principles of equal accessibility, price efficiency, solidarity and quality. Changes in health systems in Europe are in sync. We have said this to us, and we are still talking today, reform. For me, it's kind of a constant process that's going on and on. I also expect that the burden of costs will be passed on to all, i.e. from patients to healthy people, from poorer to more wealthy citizens, from young people forward and vice versa, because without this health cannot be universal value. Universal accessibility is not easily available, but I hope that the good use of the information system will not be difficult and difficult to implement. Certainly, trust is the most important, but the trust of all, not just the patients, but all who are involved in the health system - doctors, health workers and so on. I will also closely monitor the implementation of all proposals and measures. I will be most critical of the implementation of those legal provisions relating to waiting types, the definition of the basic basket, the determination of accessibility to small and other orthopaedic devices, the issuance of different, existing and defined national projects. I'm going to see how institutions are being implemented to treat addiction, including those new ones, such as gambling addictions, etc. The claim that the nutrition of the Slovenians is the one that represents and is the main cause of the poor health condition cannot be the only real one. I believe that the poor health situation of the Slovenian must also be looked for elsewhere, and certainly it is also due to the socio-economic and cultural factors of the environment. I hope that we will stop spinning in the vicious circle of poor control, as control is a prerequisite for the execution of all quality health services. However, the exercise of good control is not easy and I am aware that this will be an extremely difficult and difficult task for the future minister. Of course, except for addiction offices, there will also be a need to ensure that offices are operational and dispersed for those with mental health problems. How will he deal with alternative doctors? Will it also allow homeopathic activity? How will it address additional registrations of occupational diseases, especially those between health professionals and other modern occupational diseases, which are increasingly common, especially among nurses? I want to know how he's going to deal with a persistent and very present occurrence of hospital infections and how he's going to deal with this rehabilitation in hospitals, because we know it's not easy. I wish the Minister a great deal of happiness and success and so much enthusiasm he showed in his presentation. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Frangež has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. I sincerely hope that so many good and optimistic words can be heard in this Chamber today that this spirit will accompany the new Minister until the end of this term. So that we all know together that one environment in which we are trying to improve the Slovenian health system will be positive and optimistic and that we will all contribute together because it is one of our national priorities. We have a Constitution in Slovenia and it is written in this constitution that Slovenia is a social state. The health system, its accessibility, equal opportunities for all people to receive health care, is one of the fundamental implications of this desired goal that Slovenia is a social state. In Slovenia, the health system is based on solidarity, on the fact that we all pay together to ensure that everyone is guaranteed at least about the same rights or, if I use the vocabulary used by the minister's candidate yesterday on the committee, at least a minimum basket of rights. We all have to work together to do that. The courage to support a minister's candidate is much more drawn to me by the fact that he is a mathematician than by the fact that he is a doctor. Dr. Marušič spoke about the lack of an ideal system and that it would be a illusion if we were to set up ambitions to create an ideal system. However, in mathematics, many things seem ideal. Clearly, things are interconnected and the system, interconnected, also works. I have to say, I didn't have much interest in math at the time of school, and I regret that today. When we start to think about things that are smaller than nothing, we see where the magic of mathematics is actually and where this "spiritus moves" that drives the world and everything in this world is alive. That's why I think we need to think about the ideal system. The Slovenian health system, as it is today, is the product of a state of emergency that we knew until 1990 and was generally good, as well as the corrections that we have been making in this health system since 1990, which has tried to combine two potentially difficult logics: the logic of public interest, the general public interest and the private, free economic initiative, the possibility of carrying out a free profession and setting yourself an organisational framework for this work. In this respect, we are now at a turning point that we are trying to put through health reform into something that must at least be an approximation of the ideal system. I support his ambition to upgrade the existing system, but I am even more supportive of his words that before that we must have a very clear vision of what kind of health system we want to build in the country, what rights we need to guarantee to our people and what organisational structure will be. Let me draw your attention to a few things. First of all, it is often present in the public that we have significant losses in the organisation of Slovenian health care, that we may obtain too expensive operating tables through intermediaries. But I think there are real savings at other levels, namely, where we buy medicines, what kind of medicines we buy, how our drug structure goes through the public health system, how many original medicines and significantly less generic medicines are cheaper and also more effective. Of course, the questions about how we organised public health care, that it may be too rational today, and we are trying to solve it by involving private people in this public health system, are the real reserves in fact that we have not optimized this public health backbone. Mr Marušič spoke about positive health, about the fact that in our consideration of health, the question of how we view our own health, how we feel about our body. And in this respect, I would like to remind him that there is an initiative on the table, which he will undoubtedly take, and I will also contribute to it; an initiative which I have addressed to Mr Luksic and to the Minister of Health, which urges him to change the nutrition guidelines in Slovenian primary schools and kindergartens. In the current guidelines in this country, we argue that vegetarian diet is not good for the development of a child. I'm not a vegetarian myself, but I have some experience with this. And avoiding a meat meal offers many advantages. I am not just talking about individual health, but I am also talking about environmental aspects of meatless meals. I am well aware of the testimony of the parents of vegetarian children who have passed these habits on to their children, who say that they are all healthy individuals who fully ensure their personal and physical development and that their children, all of whom have a low level of disease, apply the same way. I think there are some truths in this, and this is also proved by the world's largest food organisations, who claim that a properly balanced vegetarian meal equally ensures a healthy human development. In this respect, I expect the Minister to address this issue as well. This may also be one of the answers to how we will improve prevention, which is in general one objective of the overall health reform: to give priority to how to protect ourselves from diseases, such as how to treat them. In this I see great savings, and in this I see great opportunities. And that's the perfect system. I wish Mr Marusic much success in his work, and I hope that this positive atmosphere, which we can see in this Chamber today, will accompany him through a successful mandate. As with some of the difficult tasks that our government has inherited, we simply must not fall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We appoint a second or third minister in this government, and this work, it seems, is not over. The entire Slovenian public agrees that a thorough reconstruction of the Government would be necessary. Because the government isn't operational. Yesterday's circus at the great mass of the LDS is witnessing that nothing will change either. The President of the Government should come here today and earlier with a proposal for a thorough reconstruction of the government, which would make the issue of "poisoning" - if I say in quotations - with Zalar and Kresal of this coalition irrelevant, because they should practically no longer be in the composition of the government. And of course, such poisonings throughout the coalition cause a number of digestive disorders, day-to-day. I have to say in this place, that the one that gets to me without protecting or defending the President of the Government, who was handed over by the LDS last night or at night, seems ridiculous. For the publication of an interview between the Prime Minister of the Government, the Minister and the Attorney General that this is what the Police Minister requires, when it is a practice that the police are listening to everything today, and they are just looking for an alibi to get to the public what they've been talking about here and elsewhere. Let the Minister of Police announce what they recorded, not the search for alibis, and we listen to other ministers through the forums, what they said in the interview.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u57	Mr Jerovšek, I would ask you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u58	This topic was opened by the President of the Government, who said that the Government is breaking through the front in the field of domestic and foreign policy, he said in the debate. I would really like to see where the breakthrough is in the area of internal policy, domestic policy. He was talking about the baseline situation that it takes energy to implement the exit strategy. In what is happening is a more present question or a government coalition cements an unprecedented situation, a strategy for Slovenia, with its inoperability. I really wish that the government would finally come with the operational programmes of the exit strategy so that the new Minister, Mr Dorian Marusic, would be part of this exit strategy as well. I personally assess it, and I think it has the potential, that it also performed with healthy thoughts, but, of course, at the hearing, it was insured by not expecting the impossible. He's obviously aware of the environment he's entering, he's obviously aware of the government he's entering as minister. He was talking about severe cuts, and let's ask if these severe cuts are necessary - probably some are necessary. Let us also ask ourselves whether in Slovenia these severe cuts would be necessary if, in the past 20 years, we had a largely successful government in power, which would look at people's interests, but not that, as Government Member Mlakar has pointed out, the last laws that are prepared, abused and shaped according to the size of capital and lobby. I thank her for this frankness, as well as the truth and also the information within the government coalition, when she presented to the public how the Health Act was made, that it was designed according to the size of capital and lobby. It's a law that's under consideration. And Mr President of the Government is very much grateful to the previous Minister for preparing such a law, abused by capital and lobbying. Then we can really ask ourselves how the severe cuts await our population, the ordinary citizen, the common patient. Evil times are promised to them; this is what is said here. The government MP mentioned that daily distribution of the population in the field of health care is more common. We also have two types of citizens in the area of health care, as well as in the area of legal protection and the rule of law. In the case of "Baričevič and Bulmastifi", we have seen that Mr Meglic, who was torn apart by the Bulmastifs, the judiciary, the judiciary and the police have virtually failed to protect him, have not acted. While there were various ministers and ministers in the back with their lobbying, everything went smoothly. And the health care of the state is the same today. Mr Candidate for Minister, if we translate into a normal language, he has predicted even worse situations, because the hole, the deficit in the health treasury, is growing so much that he has to act. And he will only be able to act according to the philosophy of this government that it is necessary to strike at the poorest and reward their richest supporters for the merits. I would not be able to be present and listen to our debates after this strange rule adopted by the LDS at that time. To eliminate the anomalies that have occurred within the medical system. Unfortunately, some part of the medical department just doesn't realize it at all. The House and its congregation have shown that part of the medical profession is aware that there are strong anomalies here. And in order to protect the interests of the citizen and the patients and the medical profession, I would suggest to the future minister that he consider depriving the Medical Chamber of public powers for a period of time. For under the present leadership, the chamber will not recover itself. It may be wise to release it by some time limit, or block it in operation, so that it will be cleaned up internally, and that those doctors who have something to do with Hippocratic oaths will perform. I would suggest to the Minister, a candidate who is a doctor himself, that he consider offering to the medical doctor the resignation of Hippocrates' oath, with a view to considering whether they will respect it in their further work. Part of the medical profession has distanced itself from the fulfillment of Hippocrates’ vow, which they proudly stress, only some do not follow it. And, of course, it will be very difficult for him to know the separation of public and private, which I support. Make it a sharp break. Just look, the whole coalition is practically wet in this mix, with what we learned in the case of Baričevič, that in that private institution, many doctors from the Clinical Center mixed in public and private activities. That's not the worst of it. It will be very interesting, and I would be happy to ask the minister because it comes from a health insurance company, whether he believes that those many activities have been paid twice by many interventions in this centre of Barsus. Once those who came to the private and paid for their service arranged to be paid by the health insurance company once again by ties, friendships, associations. If that's true, it's pure corruption. We have information that such things are actually happening in some in the private sector, not all of them, that God protects that everything is attacking, that most are principled, principled, honest, but some who have full support at the highest peaks of this coalition, these authorities, and can afford finance, a violation of everything that is unbelievably departing from Hippocrates' oath, because it is not actually being fulfilled. In this country, we have citizens who depend somewhere on who leave them at the door, for which they do not often intervene, and that is terrifying. Slovenia is rich enough, still, despite the poor government, to have a level of health care for all citizens. And once again, the minister has a great responsibility to find out and, of course, also have the medical capacity to cooperate in this, to have him cleaned up internally. And yet, Mr candidate for a minister must be as frank as Mrs Mlakar Biziakova was to be aware that what he has on the table, which he has been prepared to be maimed by capital and lobbying. See, this case of the Ljubljana Pharmacy - they were selling medicines at the expense of patients, patients. And Mr Jaklič obviously had the awesome support of Mayor Jankovic. It's awesome. But it's not only this problem, you can see that there was a Ljubljana mayor in the back, but he was also behind Jaklič's work on the Mutual when he wanted to privatize, but otherwise it's not possible that such a problematic manager would immediately get such a respectable place. And there was obviously a Ljubljana mayor back there. Another normal legal state would say to such a manager, perhaps saying that a person is a non-grant to forget that he will continue to participate in certain matters of public interest. With us, however, such a person is actually the narrowest co-worker of the most important people of this coalition. And once again, Mr Minister has the potential, and I doubt that he will be able to take advantage of them for the benefit of the people, for the benefit of the average citizen or those in need of health care. Development under this authority will go further in this direction so that health care will be for the rich only across the species, while the rest will wait in the halls, actually dying in the halls. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I think it is right that we thank former Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič once again for his work in such a difficult area. As he himself said, his leadership was to make health care and health reform that would allow for financial stability of the health treasury and the healthcare system as a whole for a longer period. I can only agree with this and believe that this will also be one of the key leaders of the new Minister, Dr. Dorijan Marusic. After all, in 2009 the government and the Ministry financially repaired almost all the hospitals in Slovenia. Since I am not a member of the Home Health Committee last week, I listened with so much interest to the presentation of the candidate for Minister Dr. Dorijan Marusic in the Group of Social Democrats. I can say that the Minister's candidate convinced me as he convinced most of the members and members of the National Health Committee at yesterday's presentation. In view of Dr Dorjan Marusic's experience so far, he will be able to take over the active management of the ministry immediately, as he was twice the Secretary of State, his advantage and not his weakness. That is why it is also important that we also appoint a Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food as soon as possible, so that the Government will be fully occupied. The Government and the National Assembly adopted the Slovenian exit strategy for the period 2010 to 2013 in February, and therefore it is our priority to implement it as soon as possible. Health reform is also an integral part of this strategy. With these systemic changes, I would like to draw attention to some further open questions that require good answers or solutions. Last year, when I reviewed the development programmes, where the investments in Slovenian hospitals are listed, I drew attention to the incomprehensible long periods from the beginning to the completion of the individual investment. Let me give them an example. Neurological Clinic, beginning of investments 1996, end 2013, ORL Clinic, beginning 1996, end 2009, Oncological Institute, also beginning of investments 1996, end 2009, Paediatric Hospital, beginning 1996, end 2015, autumn hospital, beginning 1999 2015, Psychiatric Hospital Idrija, beginning of investment 1998, end 2011. Since the beginning of the investment it has taken 10, 15 or even more years. All of this certainly makes investments less transparent and certainly more expensive. This is why, following the example of the Association for the Construction of Motorways, we should set up a special company or agency for the construction of major projects in the field of social activities, such as for the construction of the National and University Library or other major institutions in the field of health, education and culture, perhaps also investment for the purposes of individual ministries, police, military and similar. In addition, today I would like to draw attention to the issue of quality indicators in Slovenian hospitals. That is why I support the position of the candidate for Minister of Health, Dr Dorjan Marusic, who stressed yesterday on the Health Committee that he would revive the quality of the hospital project. In fact, abroad it is only reasonable for hospitals to make public the quality of their services. I think that we should also publish, for example, data on the number of falls from hospital beds, the number of infected with dangerous bacteria, the number of hospitalized with the same diagnosis, the time from being admitted to the hospital to the first examination of the doctor, and so on. I think that publicly available data would also mean greater responsibility for the leaders, managers, as professional directors and doctors, to the patient. And to conclude my contribution to life-threatening hospital infections. Among the most important quality indicators of a hospital is certainly the proportion of resistant micro-organisms that cause hospital infections. Hospital infections are estimated to be responsible for 175 000 deaths each year due to the non-critical use of antibiotics in Europe. The problem of MRSA infection was first raised in the National Assembly with a question from the Member States in 2001. Two years later, I said in a similar question that hospital infections in Slovenia caused the death of between 400 and 600 patients. That information was not challenged by the then minister Dr. Dusan Keber. I must say, the ministry and the profession responded very quickly at that time. As early as October 2001, a first national study on hospital infections commissioned by the Ministry was carried out in 19 Slovenian hospitals and was carried out by the Clinical Centre and the Institute for Health Protection. A one-day study involving more than 6,000 patients per day from all Slovenian hospitals, with the exception of the Institute for Rehabilitation and Psychiatric Hospitals, showed 61.8% of MRSA. This was also seen by some experts as the highest percentage measured in the wider European space. After 2002, the situation in this area improved. The percentage has decreased significantly, but we can say that we control this bacteria only when we get the number of hospital infections below the 10% limit in hospitals. Last October, I asked Mr Borut Miklavčič, Minister for Health, on the basis of the above-mentioned facts, what was the situation in the area of hospital infection management in Slovenian hospitals today and gave him the initiative to prepare a second Slovenian national preliminary study on hospital infections with the competent services. That is why I am taking this opportunity today to draw attention to this problem, to see, on the basis of professionally comparable data, where we were in this area in 2001, and where we are in this area in 2010, that is true today. To conclude, I would be happy to support Dr. Dorjan Marusic, Minister of Health today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Franco Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I, like our Group of Members, will support Dr Dorjan Marusich, for I know him as a capable expert who has a lot of experience. After all, he was the Secretary of State and he was directly aware of the system of functioning of this health system and came as a man who also recognized the political space in Slovenia and is aware of the real possibilities he has. I liked this modesty the most in his presentations. Mr Marušič is in a healthy way ambitious because he wants to establish a health system that is compatible with the principle of strong and quality public health. At the same time, it points out all objective circumstances and all objective problems that can seriously hamper not only further development but also reform, the expected reform of our health. I would also like to thank Minister Miklavčič for his work. I think it is his ethical approach and his ethical attitude to the key issues of school health for all. I hope that in this sense, and I am sure that in this sense Dr Marusič will continue on the same path, although he has different views and different approaches. It would probably not be realistic to expect just the continuation of some work, but also the attempt to add a few personal points to this work. Dorijana Marušič in Koper we know him very well and we also appreciate him, as we appreciated his brother Andrej Marušić, who was a top specialist in psychiatry, as we appreciated the third brother Dragan Marušić, a top mathematician. In short, there is no doubt that it comes from an environment where healthy ambition after improving systems is a constant, and there is no doubt that as a minister it will also work hard and engage. At the same time, we have tried to keep our own critical distance from certain points of view in all discussions in the Group of Members. We have asked a question, sometimes even competent, in particular with a view to keeping it constantly and firmly alert to the compass, which also leads us on the issue of health. And that is not to withdraw from the key, from the key requirement of better public health. Public health is also a dogma for us, a healthy dogma that means access to good, quality and decentralised public health for every citizen. It is in this idea, as described by Dr Marusič, that professional cooperation and the linkage of the entire national health system should be achieved. I see a guarantee that it will work simultaneously in decentralisation and integration. And these two concepts, of course, are not incompatible. I come from the environment, from the seaside, where there are many open questions and also many expectations that have not yet been realized, because we are all aware that we are in a serious, objective situation, that there is no money for many things that we need, and that is why Dr. Marusič Primorska expects, as well as other Slovenian regions, special attention for those potentials that already exist and that only need to be provided with some added value. I'll give you some cases. Isol Hospital, which aims to ensure that cardiology is publicly recognised not only by the concession of a private company, but that the Izola hospital will become one of such interesting gravitational poles for the region, of course in close connection and in professional connection with Ljubljana. Previously mentioned by a colleague of Brulca oncology in Šempeter, Nova Gorica. They have been working for a long time, there are many skilled experts and it is only necessary to move things a little bit and to break the logic of centralisation and the monopolistic conduct of some in order to achieve this in order to achieve this expectation also in Šempeter. So, I hope and convey this message to the Minister, to complete this path and to enable the actual situation in which a patient who is suffering will not need to travel to Ljubljana for the basic care that could also be given at home. The same applies to more banal, lines, quotes, problems, questions, such as dialysis, dialysis centres. One is expected in Upper Posoč, in Kobarid and, of course, in this, I hope that many things will be resolved. My colleague Klavor probably knows this situation, comes from those logs, and I've heard and felt many times people's expectations that this basic supply would still be provided in places where transport infrastructure is not the best, and that would make it more rational if we took care of it. The second question that we are really dealing with in the Group of Members these days - we have given an initiative and we have also managed to bring together some experts - is greater attention for those categories, segments of patients who may also be quite neglected due to objective circumstances. I am talking about older patients, and also about those who suffer from diseases that are still identified as intermediate, are not clearly defined. There are many people inside mental treatment who do not know if they would live in a home of pensioners, at home or in hospitals. These are patients with Alzheimer’s disease and other forms of progressive dementia and similar problems. In this regard, we will once again draw the attention of Minister Marusic to a question that they already know at the Ministry and are working on this in order for a specific chapter to be devoted to these patients, in order to establish an infrastructure comparable to best practices in other countries of the European Union in Slovenia. In short, the range of questions is very broad and we are aware that it is not easy to do. Nevertheless, if we insist on the priorities of good public health, I think we will succeed. It's a doctor's room. I believe that the professional autonomy of doctors must be respected, maintained and supported. And the Medical Chamber is a place where doctors are certainly self-organizing themselves, but this is not the only guarantee that they will overcome professionalism and that criteria that are not necessarily cecho, which are not only related to the interests of one category, will prevail in the design of a health strategy. We therefore hope that there will be different actors that will actually allow for an expert approach to all issues in synergy. About concessions. I don't think we have any adversities or prejudices to concessions either. Where concession is useful, it should be made possible, of course, but it is necessary to analyse how much, how and in particular, debirocratisation of medical work; this must be achieved. I myself have been faced with the specific problems of doctors of concessionaires who deal with this, who point out that unfortunately excessive bureaucracy takes doctors and other health workers the opportunity to do their job at the time they have to do it without losing hours or hours to complete documents or write various documents. In doing so, it will also be necessary to find some mode of vivendi during control, which is still necessary, and the effectiveness of the medical work, which is now heavily burdened by this bureaucracy. And I also hope here that the Minister will be effective in actually making it easier for all doctors, including those with concessions, work and offers that can be offered to patients, as a complementary part of public health, of course. So, if I summarize and complete this address to the Minister and also support the Minister. I expect that efforts to improve public health will continue, with the help of all of us in the Zares Group, even when resources for public health will have to be provided for the rebalancies and budgets. Maybe this is a key problem, and I think we're all aware of it, regardless of political, party, ideological definition. At least from this debate it is to feel that, at least in health, we have a common one, let's call it national, but I would say, a human interest and that it is not necessary here that we diverge just to prove the inability of this government or that government. Dr. Dorijan Marušič is, I would say, a partisan, he is an expert, not an ideological or party rigidity, and I think that such a choice and such a decision are certainly appropriate for such a resort.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Colleagues and colleagues. Initially, I would say, of course, my assessment, Minister Miklavčič was doing well. And it seems unfair to me that now his post-festum buys him too many vaccines against the new flu. That's what I call "it can be after the war to be a general." And I can say that even if it were in a case where Slovenia was threatened by an epidemic or a pandemic, it would be the same. I don't know Dr. Marusich's new candidate, and I find it difficult to judge his suitability and expertise. I will not judge this until after his words from the presentation of the flesh have become. So after a few months of his ministry. There are a lot of positive estimates on his account, as well as some negative ones, mainly from medical types. I certainly want him to be successful. Successful in the reform of the health system, where the current level of solidarity and justice needs to be upgraded, where long-term sustainability of the healthcare sector needs to be ensured. Today, for example, in the Diary we read, Health Treasury Tones as stone, 112 million minus? And the director of the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia Mr. Only Fakin says, quote: "The devil took a joke. We're gonna run out of money. After an optimistic version already in August, and after a pessimistic one before." End of quote. So, according to some projections, 112 million euro minus is at stake this year. This too will have to be faced by a new candidate. I want him to be successful at this. I wish him to be successful in ensuring equal access to equal quality services for all people in Slovenia, including in the countryside and not only in urban areas. The existing differences in infrastructure and professions will need to be eliminated, as well as clear limits of responsibilities between municipalities and regions and the country. It will be interesting how it will actually be defined for private health, or if you want concessions. I believe that competition is necessary and has positive effects. And it's also needed in health care. Of course, there is a need for transparent regulation, quality assurance, adequate and effective control and sanctions. We certainly need both the public part and the private part of health care, but with a little more order. The fact that a doctor works in a public institution this morning, in a public institution, and doing the same work with a private person this afternoon, I think, is not the best solution. There comes one way or another, but of course not everywhere, but sometimes even abuse, and that's not good. As far as the chamber is concerned, I believe that it is as it is with this cold and senseless leadership, that it is a disgrace to itself, to doctors and to the entire health system. I also expect here from the new Minister that changes will also be due to effective and professional supervision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members. It is likely that it is a set of coincidences that, just today, as we celebrate the World Health Day, we also confirm the new Minister of Health in Slovenia. I hope this will be a better journey for him, too. The area of health is one of the key areas of each country, each society and, of course, it also applies to Slovenia. Significant funds are also being allocated to the health sector, and in Slovenia about €2 billion and a half are spent annually for this purpose, and a large amount is still found to be insufficient. Today, in one of the daily newspapers, we were able to read a very important address: healthful cash register tone as a stone. A very disturbing address and also a fact, which, unfortunately, is also true. So much for the statement made by the predecessor or former minister when, at least today, he commented that he had not left his successor with red numbers. In hospitals, too, the loss that has been has been covered, but it has been covered at the expense of the state budget, which we know to be more than or more than a billion. It means that the red numbers on each step are more than enough. How can we solve the difficult financial situation, which will be solved by the new minister, I can tell him, Minister, because I will certainly get the support, and I will fail him myself. There may be two ways or three. The first is to increase or increase the contributions that are, but not the rate, but especially those that pay the contributions. Another way is to rationalise our healthcare system, but in no case is it acceptable for me and for the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members not to violate or limit the rights acquired or any rationalisation at the expense of our patients. However, it is certainly possible to rationalise the health system with better organisation of work and also with greater control where funds are also being used uneconomically. It would be ideal to have both of us, to increase the tides or to provide conditions for more tides and to rationalise. This must be the long-term objective of each government and of this ministry. Increasing revenues in our health register is something that the future minister will certainly not have the chance to influence as much as the government and other ministries. Unfortunately, it will not have that much effect on itself, but this government and, of course, this coalition obviously cannot and cannot do it. For almost 15 months now, there have been some concrete impacts on the government's mandate, the results of the crisis, unfortunately, are not. I'm sorry. In fact, the crisis is increasing, deepening and our activity is mainly economic as well as stone, which is worrying, as inflows to the health treasury can only increase if our economic activity is increased if more people are employed, if more people contribute to the health treasury, which is not now. This is the only way we will not be in Slovenia for a long time. Therefore, today, when we accept or confirm a new minister, whom I believe will be part of this task, which will not be easy, even in this mandate will not be able to wait, but such a solution is too small. Today or much earlier, at least 7 ministers, at least 7 ministers, the key ones, the Minister for Finance, the Minister for Development, the Minister for Transport, the Minister for Home Affairs, could also be listed, these are the key resources that should contribute to the start of economic activity. But obviously there will be no change, because of the various affairs, the plots, the coalition frictions, which, of course, is not good, but it is better that we now have a minister who will probably approach these problems differently than it has been so far. Today it was possible to follow up on the thanks of the former Minister for effective and successful work. I agree that he spent a lot of hours doing his job, doing his own thing, but unfortunately he doesn't see any tangible exploitation. During the previous term of office after 15 months of office, the National Assembly considered and adopted seven or even eight laws. In this mandate, only one means eight times less. It is also worrisome that the numerous laws adopted in the previous mandate, which should be implemented for which implementation was entrusted to the Ministry of Health, are not implemented. The Medical Services Act, which requires the introduction of regulations or the setting of regulations, does not exist. The health net - it's gone. The Act on Medicine, which was adopted in the previous term, is not implemented, and of course they could be listed, which is not good. It is also disturbing that the reputation of our health or our health system has been eroded by some individual affairs. I myself estimate that our health system is comparable to other European countries at a sufficiently high level. We have a good system, which, of course, needs to be upgraded all the time, but also to increase efficiency and, above all, control. However, because of a number of affairs that were not mediafully given as much attention as they probably were in any other case, but have severely distorted the reputation of our entire health system and a lot of these affairs also point to the forms of clientism or corruption. Let me mention just a few of these in this mandate: the granting of public powers to the physical therapists' chamber led by the mother of the Minister of the Interior, Mrs Frederick Kresal. We know that a story that has long been complicated and obtained an epilogue in court and that the procedure for granting these public powers could be reopened, under the guidance of the former Minister, these public powers have been granted, which are known to have been obtained on the basis of incorrect, misleading data. This matter should also be given an epilogue in court, as an appeal has been lodged against Mrs Kresalov's President of the Chamber. Then we witnessed the illegal withdrawal of the concession of the pharmacy Bitenc by the Municipality of Ljubljana. This is not a direct responsibility of the Ministry of Health, but in an indirect way it could at least be made clear that this is illegal and, if necessary, would change legislation so that such cases of illegality would no longer appear. And as they mock our legal system, then the Ljubljana Mayor, the Ljubljana Pharmacy Director and the Minister meet together at press conferences. Instead of being critical of illegality, he expressed, if not otherwise, at least silent support. Illegal business of Ljubljana pharmacies. Medicinal products identified as Galenian, which were produced in other countries, Poland, were repackaged here and forced to be sold through employees on whom mobile phones were carried out, are likely to still be used, and in this way the Agency’s criminal action for medicinal products, where this illegality has been found, has also been carried out. What is worrying is that the Ljubljana Pharmacy, which in this way created millions of euros in profits, instead of bringing these funds back to the health system, has disappeared, according to the Court of Auditors, when they identified the budget of the Ljubljana Municipality. Even the men of the Court of Auditors did not find the expulsion of the Municipality of Ljubljana where these funds went. Then a unilaterally modified way of financing small pharmacies. Many small pharmacies across rural areas face liquidity. A lot of people are gonna have to close up. Why is this necessary to change the way funding is used unilaterally? Despite the previous Minister's promise that this system will try to be rectified at the request of the SDS Group, where we discussed this at the urgent meeting of the Health Committee last year, this has not been settled. This is one of the important areas of the healthcare system. Then a unilaterally modified way of financing primary health care, which has put many health care homes and concessionaires in difficulty. Of course, again on the basis of our call for a meeting, at least part of this part was arranged. Then we have witnessed, although the matter has not yet been clarified, it will be necessary to purchase a vaccine against the new flu, for which many prominent lawyers find, if it is not already harmful, it may be contrary to Slovenian legislation. When we wanted to clear up the matter, the coalition tried to put the thing under the rug, instead of finding out whether it was bad conduct or not. Then we have witnessed or we are still a number of non-transparent real estate sales owned by the Ministry of Health. We can talk about a harmful way here, too. It means that there are quite a few areas which have been marked by the Ministry of Health and which will, of course, be dealt with by future Minister Marusic. I believe that on the basis of his vision of the functioning of the health system, which he presented yesterday, I can say very well, can achieve significant movements, important steps forward, of course, if he has support in the government, if he has it in the coalition, that is the key. But if he has his hands tied, he probably won't be able to solve these things the way he thought he would. I expect from him, it also indicated that he does not want to introduce revolutionary changes into our health system, but wants to upgrade them. That's what's important. Until this Law in health care, for which I myself assess that it should be rejected, it is also critical to him, Mr Marusič, but I do not believe that the power with amendments will be saved, but, as he mentioned, he will also try to find solutions in this way that make this law at least partially acceptable, although I do not believe and I hope, above all, the coalition, that we will then reject the law, because already the starting points are wrong. There is a need to establish new baselines to ensure that our patients have high access to health services, competitiveness, high quality and, above all, that no payment is needed. That's the key to the patient's interest. He doesn't care if he gives him a healthcare home or a concessionaire gives it to him or a private person gives it to him. When you're sick, you need the quickest and best medical attention. That's the key. Therefore, I hope that the new concept of the law will be created on the basis of a consensus of the professional public, the interested public and then the policy in the National Assembly. It's not here to argue about some ideological origins that have survived. I am sure that if such starting points are established, based on an ideology that has already proved ineffective around the world, we will cripple our health system and will not be able to put it back years and years. That's what the profession finds out. That's what everyone who knows. As I have mentioned, I believe that in the field of health, under the leadership of the new Minister, the matter will go faster, that those necessary measures will also be taken, prepared in a way that will ensure some efficiency, control and, of course, what we all expect is that the health system will not get into financial difficulties. For now we are on the best path to this, as I have mentioned, healthful cashier's tones as a stone to take those measures in due time. Health, as I mentioned, is the greatest value, which unfortunately we learn when medical attention is needed. Of course, I will also support Mr Marusic because I believe he will be one of the best ministers of this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u68	Good-bye! Dr. Dorijan Marušič, I think I have just said - so - he has performed various tasks in health care so far, but he also has political experience with various governments. That's not bad. It's more like an advantage. Indeed, today, despite the stated rule of law and the principle of division of power, we can talk about the management of various informal centres of power, support networks, lobbying. Yeah, Lobby. Precisely a lobby, the health lobby is one of the most powerful, as we know. There's a lot of money running through health care, and it's an ideal opportunity for earning money. Therefore, it is so important that we define a public-private partnership that it will not be produced into a parasite private to the public. Private doctors work well and largely responsibly. But if we offer them temptations, they'll bite them. Don't tempt me. The word from all the familiar prayers of your father. If we look at the current law, the proposal of the law, it is a single set of various temptations. The public doctor is probably also thinking if my resident colleague opened the office, why shouldn't I? If he's working on a business contract this afternoon, why don't I? If it's worth being a concessionaire, why shouldn't I be? And this law should prevent, prevent, actually, causing people to conflict of interest. It is only necessary for concessions, but it would be good for them to limit them to remote areas where working conditions are even more difficult, and everyone would like to work in the center of the city, in the center of the capital and earn more. With the same standards that apply to him. That's the problem with concessions, not that someone's private. Not at all, as I said before, private people are doing a good job, mostly responsible, but unfortunately we have not achieved what we have written in the coalition contract - to prevent the mixing and overlapping of both systems. Dr. Dorijan Marušič has extensive experience, extensive knowledge, sufficient knowledge of comparative health systems and therefore a lot of prospects. And we're not exactly aware of his valuable, visual orientation. Perhaps someone will say that it is not important, but it will also depend on the further concept of the law, how we develop it, and how we build it. It's a riddle in that sense. I wouldn't agree that he's a controversial person, not at all. I'd say we don't know everything yet. We will see through the articles of marriage, then we will learn the character of this law through the details. Despite his dual doctorate, he is probably modest and at the same time healthyly ambitious. I think it is also in the mental and health condition that these challenging tasks will lead well and, as I have already said in the introduction, it is not up to anyone, at least as I know it, in any lobby, any interest group that sees the possibility of earning, so it will be less burdensome to follow the public interest. And another feature also differs from the previous minister, is an open man, a man of dialogue. You have also seen in the opposition that it is possible to speak with him in a reasoned manner, so today he enjoys such support that he can listen and that matters are dealt with peacefully, with patience and with arguments. However, it will not be easy, as we have heard, for the health department to be empty, but nevertheless, I think there is enough money in health care, enough resources, if we can only close all the holes, all the temptations that also concern this resort, the health care leaves at all ends. This indicated that he would also do so, and I think he already knows things well enough where they leave us, where valuable public funds flow away. In that sense, I have hope in him. Above all, I want him to correct the scandalous article 135, which, I will say in public, in the law, is actually a kind of overscrupulous, misleading way, I don't know how it came about, just before today the draft came to the government or this correction of the article. This has been happening so far, but it has now been legalized or in the proposal for a law. Six months from now, an operation that costs 1,000 euros in the private sector, goes private, does an investigation for 50 euros, comes back, of course, to another waiting line, those that have already been reviewed, you've skipped them for at least six months. So, on a symbolic and also normative level, let us abolish the system of two types, types for ordinary passengers of Ljubljana passenger transport and prestigious people who will still go to private offices. Let them walk, but let them not exploit public health for private purposes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Čadež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! There have been a lot of debates over the candidate over the past few weeks. We've heard a lot of nice words, and we've heard some criticism. I am pleased, however, that I have heard quite a few positive words from my fellow Members. I can say that I am very pleased with them, because this is the first Minister, which we welcome positively in our Group of Members. It is my desire that the Minister be able to bring together the public and private sectors wisely. On the part of the coalition, we have heard the emphasis on public health and public health. We have read a lot and heard a lot from the media, but when we saw who advocates public health orientation, we found that they have their files in the private sector, which I personally did not get along with, but the background is completely understandable. I would like to highlight another issue that the Minister is also supposed to pay a little more attention to. This is mainly necessary medical care, which is present in various districts throughout Slovenia. In doing so, we must be aware that local areas differ considerably. I myself come from a sycophelic area where we were deeply affected by the rule that was published at the beginning of this mandate, because it was in the bishoply area that he reduced from one doctor and half to one doctor. And in view of this diversity of this area, both in size and in altitude and after setting up the valleys themselves, we know that if the doctor is on duty in one area, he cannot provide parallel care for another patient in another area. Here I think that the Minister should carefully review this rule, especially from this point of view, because it is now up to the municipalities to co-finance emergency medical assistance. I'm sure this direction isn't right. Because we do not have the resources for this purpose, and I think that urgent medical assistance should be financed primarily from the State budget, even because the rules themselves do not provide for this. Finally, I would like to say that I will support the new Minister. I wish him a happy journey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. First of all, just like most here, thank Minister Miklavčič for his hard work, for his well-done work. It is not easy to be Minister of Health at these times, especially when some courageous moves are needed. And a positive journey to the candidate Dr. Dorian Marusic. I'll support the candidate. In the parliamentary group, we had a presentation by the candidate, and it turned out that he really has a professional, political and otherwise competence in this area. He also presented some substantive solutions that are in line with the coalition treaty and with an alternative government programme, namely the Social Democrats programme. I wish those who get to know each other best can do so. Health care is a complex system. I am from the local community, because I come from Ptuj, which is divided into 16 municipalities today, where there is a great need for health care for the rural population. I don't know if this supply is as accessible as the center. It is therefore possible to focus on the five key concerns or comments I have been alerted to. First of all, it is certainly the problem of some physiotherapists who point out the irregularity of travel doctors, especially in the use and prescription of physiotherapy, of mixing certain diagnoses for a particular physiotherapy and not taking into account the referrals to the nearest physiotherapy, and of patients who drive more than ten kilometres to therapy, then paying travel costs, especially when we talk about rationalisation many times. This is irrational, there are many such comments that have already been submitted to the Ministry of Health. After all, we need to know that when a patient is on the verge of physical therapy, waiting for a lot of time, I speak from 5 months and beyond, in this time the benefits of the hospital stock, because it has to wait for physical therapy, and we see in this very unrational structure, but which makes the differences between medical centres and small physiotherapists operating in some local environment, because they may not be qualified enough to carry out physical therapy as large health centres, but they are well trained with some new methods, and this is, in particular, final mobilisation, which has not yet appeared as prescribed therapy today, but there is a lot of expert opinion of physiotherapists who are inclined to make progress on this point and that many other, more effective approaches to treatment in this type of problem are being used. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the problem of public pharmacies. Many of these pharmacies operate with a minus, mainly because the amount of money they receive for a particular medicine or per capita is lower or goes down when they want to cover their expenses. So let's say a bird pharmacy, just for example, has multiple branches, but only one of these branches actually works positive because there's a big flow of people, all of them do business negatively. Thus, in my view, it is necessary to find a common language with those who manage the public institution, i.e. public pharmacies and the Ministry, in order to find a concrete solution. Secondly, we have had many discussions on concessions. What does that mean? What does that mean? It is important to be aware, however, that concessions should not be such fun and some opposition by policy mainly in the labelling of doctors as those who are prone only to profit, etc. I think concessions are welcome in environments where access to public health is impossible, that they are welcome, that many doctors work very intensively to receive more patients than otherwise. But they can't survive with the basics in any way. But I also have a problem with someone who runs a public institution, runs this public institution, operates in two other hospitals, runs a private infirmary in the afternoon, and this is a problem that needs to be solved in a different way. In Slovenia we also have a lot of problems with lack of doctors, we have been enrolled for decades in undergraduate students and we are not trained enough doctors because medical studies are expensive for the country. It is easier and cheaper to introduce labour from abroad, and since independence we have made it difficult and today we also have problems with this area. Thus it should be possible to think, especially in the direction of making more entry places for medical students. If we look at, say, just one information: every additional doctor in basic health care to 10,000 people reduces mortality by 3-10%, depending on the cause of death. This is certainly an information that should encourage us to have more doctors and then be able to solve the problem of waiting times slightly differently. The assessment of how many doctors in Slovenia are missing this time is around 2500, so that they can somehow see whether the problem of waiting species and that doctors working in public institutions can then work in the afternoon so that they can fill this time to receive as many people as possible in order to solve this slightly differently. It is true, however, that all of this must be considered in history, that is, the motive why one of the doctors may have been forced to go to private or concession - because in the past it was in general hospitals or in public institutions that everyone was paid the same, regardless of who did more or less work. That way we could create one reward system, however, those doctors who are good, who just work, work, and are thus rewarded. After all, human health is certainly one of the key priorities. We need to provide publicly accessible health care. We must not do political stories and blame doctors for committing some crime in this society, but try to make it possible for people to access these services through public access to health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will repeat a few things from yesterday's debate on the Health Committee. However, I have already delivered the opinion of the Group of Members today, so that I have nothing new to say to the truth in love. But given that I have known the candidate for Minister Dorijan Marusic for quite some time from these benches, from participation in the institutions of the country, I must say that I was surprised in the previous term when the new Minister of Health took office and resolved or accepted the resignation of the current candidate, at the time of the Secretary of State. Because I thought it was a good secretary of state at the time, because there was a lot of legislation and a lot of action coming from the Ministry's leadership at the time. According to my assessment, it was a move at the time - I will not say a mistake, but it was not the best move, because I have the feeling that the legislative field in the last third of this ministry has somehow slowed down in the previous term. But that's history. Well, I know him from this period. Apparently, he's also a very good expert on medical bills. Yesterday too, of course, he was able to point out a number of emerging problems or the current health financing problems, which some of them are, we have all noted, are also alarming. Some of them were already talking about today. Today, some information in the newspaper about the projected deficit this year is in the health treasury. That's how he's going to be, despite his knowledge, extremely hard work. I want this work done for the good of all of us. But I'm sure there'll be trouble. Yesterday, I stressed that there will be a need to separate this problem of private and public health, in a way that is balanced, professionally correct and intelligent. In today's debate, too, a lot of this has been heard. He's definitely got a lot of work to do here. Many times there are various comments about the problems in alternative medicine. Notwithstanding the fact that the doctor and the doctor are committed to medicine, which is also introduced by education in this field, alternative medicine is, of course, a fact. And if the Act on Medicine adopted in the previous mandate needs certain amendments, it is also necessary to approach these amendments and ensure that alternative medicine is properly managed, coordinated and also controlled. Finally, let me say a few more words about the medical board. I myself advocate compulsory membership in the Chamber because it has certain tasks and certain powers, but in a Chamber that will be worthy of the trust of both citizens and citizens as well as its members. This is certainly not the case with the existing chamber or branch office. That is why I anticipate and expect the Minister of Health, within his powers, to try to regulate these matters as well. I must say, I voted in favour of the Health Committee yesterday. That is why I do not agree with my colleague Kontic, who said earlier in his presentation of the opinion of the parliamentary group that he had missed the opposition's votes yesterday. So, I'm certainly the one who's in favour, and as I know, also one of the colleagues from SDS. Of course, the problem is that in the coalition you always take only one of the parties for opposition, the SDS, the biggest, and no offense, also in the SD, you obviously take the other parties according to this principle for those who are not entirely equal; therefore, such problems are. Well, as I said yesterday, I voted in favour, and I will do the same today. A part of the opposition MPs also voted in favour yesterday, so that any loss of our votes is inappropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I would like to explain my position, Mr Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Comrade President. Because if I was understood as he said, then I was misunderstood. I spoke on behalf of the Group of Members and said that it was without a vote against the confirmed conclusion that Mr Marusic was a suitable candidate. And I said below that voting does not constitute a stock exchange. Even on the part of the coalition, not the opposition, that even the coalition votes were lost yesterday in the vote and that this is, of course, also a prediction that, in the legal solutions that it will propose, we will face, in particular, whether these solutions are in conjunction with our programme, as enshrined in the coalition agreement, or not. I wasn't talking about the opposition, I was talking about the coalition MPs on the committee. I also have this written down, but it can also be seen from a magnetogram. However, if in my performance I ever forget to separate the opposition from several parties, it apologizes, but of course I do not want to give priority to one. I want to cooperate with all opposition parliamentary groups, and I am by no means putting the opposition parliamentary group of the Slovenian People's Party in the SDS. It was the other way around that a member of the SDS came from SLS, but I certainly don't put SLS in SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! It is difficult to say something new after almost a six-hour debate, but I have a few important thoughts which I would like to express when I appoint and vote for the new Minister of Health, Mr Dorjan Marusic, whom I know mainly from my previous mandate. In the previous term, when he was Secretary of State, he actually convinced me that the general public is both a general state of health and a specialty in force. Last night, too, I was further impressed by the fact that the basic health basket must be provided to all citizens. Why is this so important? We may have witnessed some formal procedure when urgent assistance was needed by the person who was brought to the E.R., but because of some formalities, it was determined whether this patient had everything as it should be that payment of individual services was later provided. Such cases may have led to the death of people because of such formalities, unanimity of formalities. That is precisely why I feel that his promise and commitment are still in place and very appropriate. It also excites the fact that it has proved beyond a doubt in the previous mandate, and this has also ensured in the re-examination that it is in some way pursuing the decentralisation of the system at both the primary and secondary levels. This is not particularly important for us, who somehow come from faraway places outside, the main centres where clinical centres are also. How important are services in remote areas of the Republic of Slovenia. It is not irrelevant that this secondary level of individual hospitals is also ensured in terms of regional hospitals and the provision of services in these hospitals. It is true that fragmentation in such small hospitals is a major cost in this health care facility, and it is important to be aware, on the other hand, that there is much more to human health and that the provision of funding for these services in so-called general regional hospitals is still in place. It may not be important to stress the fact that today, in so-called small regional hospitals, major medical experts have been mutilated. These small hospitals may have also produced a concrete result when doctors gathered in these smaller hospitals and tried to discover what they had then gathered at the clinical center by means of their scientific approach. Several concrete results were provided by both the bird hospital and the Sloveniangrass hospital, at least I know about these two cases, and maybe some. Well, and just providing health care for people who are far from major Slovenian centres is very important. Both health homes and pharmacies, as well as the hospitals I spoke about, require a special approach. And I am pleased that, in fact, in one person, there is a person who also has a lot of other knowledge, with which he can build on specialty when talking about health care, treatment, which is certainly the candidate for the new Minister, Dr. Marusič. Of course, I am concerned when I am monitoring public procurement in the field of health. This sour apple will have to be bitten because there are still many gray foxes from the past, as well as from the present, which will have to be cleaned so that things are clear, transparent and transparent. This is a lot of money, especially for medicines that may be of the same quality, packed in a different box, and there is a significant price difference. In short, we have recently witnessed this event in public pharmacies in the capital. And it is expected that the new minister will bite into this sour apple and try to regulate this area, on the one hand, to be cheaper for the country and, on the other hand, more effective for those who benefit from these services. Well, we may not even be aware of how this basic health care is actually organized, how it actually works, and we are only aware of this when we find ourselves in a health care home or in a hospital. At that time we are witnessing this actual provision of services, and at that time we are witnessing an event, a process that we perceive is good or not good. And in this function, when we are in the function of a patient, we can also try directly how this works in practice. I have to say, I was fortunate not to know how many times I used such or other services either in a hospital, in a health care home or in a pharmacy, but something for sure. Well, I would also like to see that, at both the primary and secondary levels, the Minister may also intervene with some job optimization, especially when it comes to on-calls, when it comes to another presence in one way or another, or when it comes to waiting for work outside the workplace. In short, it is a series of measures that, at least in my personal opinion, could be used to optimize and thereby reduce payments from the state treasury, thereby saving the necessary funds that, according to the health insurance company's forecast, we can monitor almost on the agenda, that the cash register is almost empty before the collapse that will occur in August and, according to some forecasts, before. In short, a new minister who will certainly be one of the few ministers who will receive surprising support in the National Assembly today. This may also be some direction to the current Prime Minister or the Prime Minister of the Government, how to recruit him in the future, that he will have as few problems as possible, as it is obvious that there are enough people in the Republic of Slovenia, but they need to be discovered and not preferred solely and solely by political affiliation. It may also be heartwarming that a man with an academic title comes to the government team, but what is even more important than that academic title is that a doctor comes to this team. They say that sometimes politics needs to be healed, and perhaps this is an opportunity that is worth taking advantage of. I certainly wish that my vote, which will certainly be in favour, would also contribute to confirming to the new Minister that we are also members and Members of Parliament in the areas where it comes from presenting candidates who exclude their professional work from political interests. It is true that the coalition agreement has fallen behind in some of the contents, but I am sure that the new minister will have the advantage of professionalism over politics, which is good and better for people who need health services in one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u79	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: For the Minister of Health, the name is Dorijan Marusič. An explanation of the voice? [[No, no, ……]] Let's do it again. I propose that we vote on the following decision: Mr Dorijan Marušič is appointed Minister of Health. We're voting. There were 60 Members and Members present, 57 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that Dorian Marusic has been appointed Minister of Health. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] I welcome Minister Dojan Marusic. Once again, I declare that out of 60 Members and Members of Parliament 57 voted in favour. Allow me, on behalf of the National Assembly, to sincerely congratulate you on your appointment, and I wish to carry out my duties successfully.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u80	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. I'll be very brief. Thank you so much for your support. You must realize that the burden you gave me today is even greater. I hope that I will not let you down, like all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Thanks again. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-07-SDZ5-Izredna-22.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Notification by the District Attorney's Office in Cyprus of the Decision on Immunity in the Criminal Procedure of the Member of the State Assembly. The notice was forwarded to the District Attorney's Office in Cyprus for consideration in the National Assembly. The notice was considered by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body. She presented to the assembly a proposal for a decision which you received today at the offices. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members concerning the notification of the District Attorney's Office in Cyprus No. KP234/10 of 30 July 2016 3. 2010 on the proposal for a decision on the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly of Happy Friends for a reported offence of attempted blackmail under Article 213/1KZ-1 in relation to Article 34 KZ-1 does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly of Happy Friends and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. We shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 22nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. One more announcement. Ambassadors and Members, I ask you to take all the materials out of the hall for the preparation of the hall for the festive session tomorrow, April 8th. Thank you very much and good-bye.
