ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Victory by Jelinčič nobles, Villa Trofenik, Milenko Ziherl and Rudolf Petan. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 8. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION OF THE OPPORTUNITIES OF DISASTERS, ORIGINAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! There are about 160,000 disabled people in Slovenia. If we add their family members to this number, then we can confidently conclude that at least a quarter of Slovenian citizens face disability in one way or another. In Slovenia alone, a number of regulations have been adopted in the fields of education, employment, health care, the elimination of communication barriers and obstacles in the environment, the self-organization of persons with disabilities and the provision of money for the special needs of persons with disabilities. When we analyze all these regulations, we find that we have a modern disability protection policy based on human rights that is comparable to the developed European countries. However, we also note that people with disabilities still face cases of discrimination or are not given the same opportunities as others. That is why the purpose of this law, namely the Act on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities, is to prevent and eliminate discrimination based on disability. The purpose of the law is also to create equal opportunities for people with disabilities in all areas of life. This ensures the fundamental purpose of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in Slovenia, namely to promote, protect and ensure the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms and to promote respect for their inherent dignity. At the same time, it should be pointed out, as it is stipulated, that the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities is also subject to non-discriminatory provisions which ensure equalization of opportunities under other rules. Notwithstanding the provisions of other laws, the provisions of this Act shall apply if they are more favourable to persons with disabilities. The first part of the Act regulates the prohibition of discrimination on the grounds of disability, namely: the prohibition of discrimination against public authorities, public authorities and local governments, public authorities and services; then equal participation in procedures, access to goods and services and facilities for public use, the prohibition of the writing and display of discriminatory messages and symbols, access to inclusive education, health, mode of residence, information, cultural good and public transport. The second part of the law is measures to equalise the opportunities of persons with disabilities, which are in particular: the right to co-finance devices for overcoming communication barriers that disabled persons with sensory disabilities, such as blind, visually impaired, deaf, deaf, deaf and disabled persons with speech and multiple disabilities, need as support for social inclusion and are not provided on the basis of other regulations. The next measure to be highlighted is the payment of vehicle adjustment costs. The payment of vehicle adjustment costs will be able to be effected by a motorised disabled person who can manage the vehicle on his own by adjusting the vehicle. The adjustment of the vehicle will also be justified by a disabled person who does not own the vehicle and the adjustment is necessary for the entry into the vehicle and safe driving. The invalidity may apply the cost of adjusting the vehicle every six years. A third major measure is the establishment of a call centre for hearing impaired persons. Through the Centre, hearing impaired persons will be able to obtain information from public authorities, local authorities, public service providers and public services. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Welfare will also co-finance the implementation of specific social programmes that enable people with disabilities to become more socially involved. In particular, programmes will be co-financed to enable independent or independent living, active life and work of persons with disabilities, and programmes that provide psychosocial assistance to persons with disabilities and their families, advocacy and self-help programmes, programmes to prevent violence against persons with disabilities and so on. The draft law obliges all state authorities, local communities, public authorities and public services, public services and other public function holders to create conditions for equal treatment of persons with disabilities, in the framework of their responsibilities through normative measures and guidelines and through education, by raising awareness of society and by monitoring the social situation of persons with disabilities. The final proposal also lays down offences in the event of breaches of the accessibility of goods and services and of public transport. In such cases, offenders shall be subject to fines and appropriate inspections shall be provided for the criminal authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was examined by the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee and the disabled. I give the floor to the president, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, Mr Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a law on the enforcement of the disabled, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. The Committee was attended by representatives and representatives of lawmakers, the Law and Law Service, the State Council, the Ombudsman, the Office for Equal Opportunities, the Community of Social Work Centres, representatives of representative disability organisations, the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations, the Institute of the Association of Interpreters for Slovenian Sign Language and the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia. The amendments to the bill were tabled by the SLS Group and the SD Group of Members, Indeed, DeSUS and LDS. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Council of the State with regard to the views of certain organisations, institutions and the Ombudsman. He was also familiar with the Government’s view of the opinion of the State Council. In the introductory and supplementary explanations of the articles, the representative of the proposer, State Secretary Dr Anja Kopač Mrak, briefly presented the fundamental reasons for the adoption of the bill and in particular its main solution. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented her written opinion and drew particular attention to the vague and missing definitions. In the debate on the individual articles and amendments tabled, the members and members of the Committee and the invited maximum attention were paid primarily to the proposed solutions to the draft law relating to the importance of the terms, in particular to indirect and direct discrimination, to ensuring the rights of a group of persons with disabilities under official responsibility, the use and adaptation of public service facilities, the appointment of members to the Technical Assistance Council, the appropriate adjustment in public transport, the call centre for hearing impaired persons, the appointment of members to the Council for Persons with Disabilities of the Republic of Slovenia, the criminal provisions and the deadline for appropriate adjustment. However, a more extensive discussion took place mainly in Article 3 and Article 7, and Article 18 and on the amendment tabled, proposing that representatives of representative and other disabled organisations to the Technical Assistance Council should be proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and not by the National Council of Disability Organisations of Slovenia, as originally proposed. In its written and oral opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to the indeterminate legal status of this organisation under the Disability Organisations Act. Article 25 of this Law states that it is a voluntary association of disability organisations, which neither the law establishes as a legal person. In view of this voluntary nature of association, it is disputed that such an organisation is treated as a monopoly, i.e. as the only one of its kind that can be established, which is not even based on the provisions of the Disability Organisations Act. Therefore, the Legislative and Legal Service considered that freedom of association includes the right to establish a number of similar organisations based on freedom to achieve a specific objective. The members and members of the Committee, after having concluded the discussion on Article 18 with the amendment to the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups, decided that the proposal of representatives of representative and other disabled organisations to the Technical Assistance Council would still be maintained under the responsibility of the disability organisations, but no longer of the disability organisations concerned, but of the National Council of Disability Organisations. The discussion below also highlighted the provision of Article 23 and the deletion of the criminal provisions which the representatives of the disabled organisations opposed. With regard to the deletion of criminal provisions, it was proposed that, by the plenary session, possibilities be found for the specific text to be corrected and incorporated back into the draft law. The Committee adopted all amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups, and the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 19 became irrelevant. The Committee also adopted its amendments to Article 3, 5, 7, 9, 18, 29 and 41 and adopted a new Article 24. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles together and adopted a proposal for a law. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation is prepared and the amendments adopted are included. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u6	In opening, I would like to say that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group is not going to support the proposal of the law on the equalisation of the opportunities of disabled persons and, of course, of all the proposed amendments of the coalition SD, LDS, Real and DeSUS. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are aware that, in the area covered by the proposed law, better solutions are urgently needed than are currently in force, but the dictated law does not solve the problem in a way that would be acceptable to the majority of the disability organisations that this law is tanning. According to the Government, the law should regulate the area of equal opportunities and non-discrimination of persons with disabilities. Together with the Act on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment and other rules on the elimination of discrimination, a comprehensive system-wide procedure on the elimination and prevention of discrimination based on disability is in place. On the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, where we discussed the proposed law, an extremely large number of amendments were tabled, which were not in line with the disability organisations, as they stressed in particular that before the amendment was tabled, they had agreed to the proposed law, because they had participated in the creation of the law themselves. While not participating in the drafting of the amendments, the coalitions stressed that they do not support the amendments submitted, as they estimate that these amendments change the concept of a law that is not conducive to the disabled. So these are the key reasons in the Slovenian Democratic Party, why we will not impose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Republic, because it has once again shown how non-professionally prepared legislation is being sent to Parliament by the Government. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we do not want such an important law to be an empty letter on paper and not to be implemented in practice in terms of eliminating discrimination against persons with disabilities. That is why we have proposed on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons the withdrawal of this item from the agenda, but this option has been rejected by the coalition, despite the fact that the proposed solutions, which are not favourable to the disabled, have also been opposed by disabled organisations. As we assess in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that the amendments tabled at the plenary session of the National Assembly cannot be amended in such a way as to be acceptable to most disabled organisations, we will not support this bill and the proposed amendments and we will abstain fully in deciding on the amendments tabled and on the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law that we are considering today primarily covers the area of equal opportunities and non-discrimination of persons with disabilities and is intended to complement existing legislation as such and contribute to a more comprehensive approach to eliminating and preventing discrimination based on disability. How important this area is, and especially to the extent that this area is not satisfactorily resolved, has also shown the debate on the consideration of the draft law on the working body, where members and members of the Labour Committee have tried to make a number of proposals and well-intentioned comments by disabled organisations, representatives of equal opportunities and also comments from the Legislative and Legal Service. For this reason, in the Group of Members, we also have doubts as to whether the proposal for a law at the Directorate has indeed been prepared to the best possible extent and at appropriate professional points or under the pressure of illegal, partial interests. At this point, we may even agree with the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, but I believe that the reasons for such drafting of the law are quite different. I am sure that the law is in the interest of the disabled, but perhaps it is not in the interest of the disabled organisations, but of course this should be separated in our opinion. The solutions arising from the proposal for the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities Act are welcome to define precisely the duties they have in preventing discrimination between countries, local communities and others. The key task of the law is therefore to systematically prevent discrimination on the one hand and to promote equal treatment on the other. All the debates so far show - and in the Group of Representatives - that we are convinced of this new policy - that we must finally address this area in a complex and, above all, at different points, on the assumption of the unadaptability and inaccessibility of the environment, which is the reason for putting persons with disabilities in an unequal position rather than the unadaptability of persons with disabilities to the environment. We therefore have yet to take a major step from medical understanding to the social model of solving the disability problem, which is also the European Union's commitment. We will therefore, to the greatest extent, follow the principles of inclusiveness and an individual approach. From here, perhaps also an understanding of the opposition of disabled organisations who do not understand in such a composition as now, an individual approach to solving the problems of people with disabilities, because it naturally gives them a certain power, simply stated. The social approach does not take disability into account as a natural person's behaviour, but rather as a product, in terms of the social context and the environment. I hope we all agree that the environment is one that disqualifies and creates obstacles. The adoption of the Personal Assistance Act, which is also being prepared by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, will be an important step forward. In the Group of Members, we will support the proposal for a law before us, for real – a new policy. We will also actively participate in all the necessary further discussions on better regulation of this area, not only in laws coming from the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, but also in others coming, say, from the Ministry of Education and Sport and others, because it is clear, of course, that the first contact with state institutions is very early in the stage of social protection in children, later in school, and it is necessary to take the first steps that will shift the understanding of the problem of disabled people from a medical understanding to a social one that I described earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-worker and co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposed amendments to the amended bill, which are being corrected, which has been omitted and lacking in the bill proposal, and at least partly take into account the warnings of representatives of disabled persons received in writing and in the debate on the home committee. We estimate that the proposal for a law is, however, a step towards improving and equalising the opportunities of people with disabilities, since it sets out procedures more specifically and sets out a commitment to implement the provisions on the accessibility of persons with disabilities to services to address obstacles and sets out the right to help. For the second reading on the home working body, we have proposed an amendment to Article 19 to simplify the procedure for obtaining disability benefits and to point out the irregularity and inadmissibility of the social work centres to choose and at the same time issue decisions on aids, which is contrary to the Law on Administrative Procedure and because we have already qualified organisations for this. Although our amendment has not received support, we estimate that it has been meaningful and substantively summarised in the amendment adopted under this same Article. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will also support the law for other positive reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franz Jurš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, President. The Disability Equalization Act provides a practical example of the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The latter underlines, inter alia, the importance of the independence of persons with disabilities and their independence as individuals, including freedom of choice. Independent life is considered essential for equal inclusion in society by people with disabilities. Such an effort must, of course, be pursued by society as a whole, and I note that this bill has taken an important step forward in the efforts to ensure and implement measures that give people with disabilities the opportunity to have equal opportunities for inclusion in all areas of life. Therefore, what is crucial to this law is the prohibition of discrimination based on disability and the adoption of measures to equalize the possibility of persons with disabilities. The prohibition of discrimination on the grounds of disability provides for the company's lawful conduct as a whole in virtually all areas of social life. All proceedings before national and local authorities and services holding public powers shall ensure equal and non-discriminatory treatment of persons with disabilities, allowing uniform rules of conduct for staff members with regard to ensuring the right of the blind, the visually impaired and the deaf to access to and applications for official writings. Measures that will help improve communication and information acquisition in the field of public authorities, public services and other public services include the establishment of a call centre for hearing impaired persons. A report by the Slovenian Institute of Social Protection for the preparation of this Act on the social economic situation of persons with disabilities for the Ministry provides a summary of the areas to be provided by the State to persons with disabilities. Among the most problematic are the overcoming of architectural obstacles and the organisation of transports for motor-obstructed persons, and the overcoming of communication barriers for sensory-obstructed persons. It was found that laws and regulations relating to the removal of existing or the prevention of the emergence of new communication and built barriers are in practice poorly or unsatisfactoryly implemented. The bill is therefore seriously interfering with this problem, as it sets out a number of measures that will improve the standard of living for persons with disabilities, who occasionally, some even daily, have to face the obstacles mentioned above. With regard to public transport, accessibility is ensured in terms of the obligation to adapt transport assets and other infrastructure in bus, rail and on the basis of the amended proposal of the law also in water transport. For disabled persons – drivers, it is important to finance the costs of adjusting the vehicle. Also, the blind and visually impaired, deaf and deaf, deaf and disabled are provided with a co-financing measure of 85% of the value of additional aids. It is the tools that people with disabilities need in life to overcome communication barriers, to enable a safe and independent life and to use them to make information accessible, communicate and adapt to the environment. There is also an obligation in this law to adapt construction. Both those who are being built and those already existing for which reconstructions will need to be carried out within 15 years at the latest in terms of technical adjustments in order to ensure general accessibility – that is, construction, sound and light and information equipment. In the general sense, the law actually touches all areas of social life, where treatment of disabled persons must be particularly attentive to them, i.e. education, health care, cultural goods, residence. It is, of course, considered as a general umbrella law, since other sectoral rules are also important to the realization of the rights of persons with disabilities in terms of equalization. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the law. Finally, let me say that, of course, we expect the Ministry's continued engagement in order to improve the quality of life of all persons with disabilities, to be as independent as possible of the material assistance of its neighbours, to establish personal assistance and other possible forms of assistance and to pay particular attention to the employment of persons with disabilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues! After all the complications and inconsistencies of the text of the proposal for a law on the equalization of the possibility of disabled persons and after numerous revisions of the texts at the Directorate for Disabled Persons in the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the proposal for a law is acceptable, although some are not satisfied with the law as a whole. They talk about time lags, lack of accessibility of disabled services and so on, and even about integral substantive shortcomings in the fight against discrimination against disabled persons. This will not be true, for Article 6 of the draft law already explicitly defines the prohibition of discrimination against persons with disabilities before state authorities, public authorities and local governments, and public authorities and services. The law itself includes various measures to equalise the opportunities of persons with disabilities, in particular with regard to the provision of technical tools to overcome obstacles in the environment. Measures to equalise the capacity of persons with disabilities first highlight the right to co-financing of communication barriers overcomers, the cost of adapting the vehicle and the establishment of a call centre for deaf and deaf persons. Disability is a group that is still exposed to discrimination in certain environments, and I therefore believe that, among other things, criminal provisions are of great importance in order to comply with legal provisions and thus to effectively prevent and eliminate discrimination and all to ensure equal opportunities for the disabled in all areas of life. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Welfare promises to co-finance the implementation of specific social programmes that enable people with disabilities to become more socially involved or to complement the offer of public services. In particular, programmes will be co-financed to enable a more independent life of people with disabilities, enabling the active life and work of persons with disabilities to provide psychosocial assistance to persons with disabilities and their families, advocacy and self-help programmes and so on. We certainly consider this to be very positive in the Slovenian National Party. We can say with a clear conscience that in Slovenia we are aware of the commitments made to us by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Even if we think that 7 to 9% of people living in Slovenia who are such or different types of people with disabilities live among us, we can say that the attitude towards people with disabilities in Slovenia changes substantially in a positive direction. We will therefore vote in favour of the bill in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u16	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear Mr Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on the equalization of opportunities for disabled persons brings many good and new solutions for disabled persons in Slovenia, including measures to ensure the communication and spatial accessibility of the social environment, the financing of technical aids, the possibility of disability organisations participating in anti-discrimination procedures. It is estimated that in Slovenia, between 7% and 9% of the population are disabled and because disability affects the lives of families and relatives means that more and more people are living with disabilities every day. Disability is linked to discrimination, and even though this is legally prohibited, everyday life shows that it does exist. There is a concept of indirect and direct discrimination in the law. The essence of discrimination is that everything in society is adapted to the average citizen. In other words, it can be said that there is unconscious discrimination, but this excuses more individuals, societies or countries, not when people who have different needs, who, for example, represent an unimaginable obstacle to them, simply do not notice. Such practices expose the status of disabled persons who are automatically excluded from social life. This represents an obstacle to education, difficulties in finding employment and in living normal lives at all. In order to effectively eliminate discrimination, appropriate legislation is required, and parallel education and awareness of the public and decision-makers must take place. The combination of all this gives us opportunities to improve the situation in the long term and achieve the ultimate goal of ensuring the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms for people with disabilities. The LDS has always advocated the consistent realization of the rights of persons with disabilities, the improvement of the situation in this area, the equality of all citizens and citizens. Equalising the opportunities for all enables them to be involved in the functioning of society, helps to increase employment and to engage in education. This prevents people with disabilities from being excluded from society and prevents them from being at greater risk of poverty. More detailed data, such as the state of education or employment of persons with disabilities, were unfortunately not included in the analysis of the situation at the time of consideration of this law. More detailed information in this area could help to improve the quality of the debate in the National Assembly. However, in the context of the debate on the labour market, the main solutions adopted were those which corrected the law on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and regulated the legal system. In the LDS, we support the objectives of the law, which prohibit discrimination in all areas of life and create equal opportunities for people with disabilities to work and live. We can divide the contents of the marriage into two parts. One part speaks of the prohibition of discrimination based on the view that it is necessary to prohibit discrimination effectively. Thus, there is a prohibition of discrimination against public authorities, public authorities and local authorities, public authorities and services, that persons with disabilities may participate equally in all procedures, the prohibition of writing which would discriminate against, and the regulation of the rights of access to inclusive life in the field of education, cultural goods, mode of residence, information, public transport, i.e. the same rights and opportunities as for non-disabled persons. The second part of the law is intended for concrete measures to equalise the possibility of disabled persons. Disabled persons with sensory impairments, i.e. blind, visually impaired, deaf, deaf-blind, and disabled persons with speech and multiple disorders, need tools to overcome communication barriers and the law regulates the right to co-finance these devices. The latter are necessary to be included in the social environment. There is also a lot of talk in the law about financing and procedures for adapting vehicles. The law also defines adaptations in public transport and lays down time limits for adaptation. These are relatively long, but in LDS we believe we have taken reasonable solutions for both sides. A very important part of the law is the establishment of a call center for deaf and deaf. Through the centre, hearing impaired persons will be able to obtain information from public authorities, local authorities, public authorities and public service providers and public services. In the LDS we support the adoption of the law and we hope that it will come to life very quickly in concrete solutions, as it represents the standard of solutions that, given the development of our country, we should have in the past, of course, if we as a society are serious about equality and equal opportunities for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u17	The position of the Social Democracy Group will be presented by Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Hello again! As an introduction to the debate on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities Act, I should say that there has been a very great effort to adopt the Act as soon as possible. Social Democrats believe that disability is not only an individual's health, social or economic problem, but also the problem of society in particular. It is therefore necessary for society to be sensitive enough to adapt to the needs of people with disabilities at all levels and within their scope and, of course, to prevent discrimination and to enable this population to be better integrated into society. We Social Democrats have already advocated in the alternative government programme to strengthen the rights of people with disabilities, and we have also included our efforts in the coalition contract and have specified it with a view to complementing the disability legislation in terms of equalizing the possibility of persons with disabilities, which is also one of the fundamental areas of the exercise of human rights. The purpose of the Disability Equalization Act is to equalize their opportunities in all areas of life and, in essence, to further implement the fundamental provisions of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the Slovenian Space. This law, together with the Act on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment and other rules on the elimination of discrimination, provides a legal framework for the comprehensive resolution of all key issues related to discrimination and the equalization of opportunities for persons with disabilities. The most important set of measures defined in the proposal for this Act governs the prohibition of discrimination on the grounds of disability, measures to equalize the opportunities of persons with disabilities, the identification of persons with disabilities and their responsibilities, and obligations, procedures in the dispute over discrimination on the basis of disability, the management of databases and so on. We received a large number of amendments from representatives of disabled organisations at the stage of the consideration of the draft law on the home committee. In our intention to follow them as much as possible, however, it must be pointed out that the power was to take into account only those amendments which are in line with the legal order in our country, with Members, of course, referring to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. However, we have been fully open to these proposals, and with a view to ensuring proper control over the implementation of the legal provisions, we have drawn up a proposal for amendments to the criminal provisions that we have reintroduced in the proposal for a law. With the proposals of the other amendments that we will discuss today, we have committed ourselves to facilitating the feasibility of certain rights that are crucial to individual groups of persons with disabilities. In short, the maximum possible measure of compromise between wishes and desires and, on the other hand, the possibilities defined in some way by the social economic conditions and, on the other hand, by the legal framework of this society. In the Group of Social Democrats, we assess that the complementary draft law, taking into account the new solutions proposed with the amendments, constitutes an appropriate framework for preventing discrimination and equalising the opportunities of people with disabilities, so we will also support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2010 I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment of the SD, LDS, Zares and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 3. I am putting to the debate Article 8 of this amendment of the SD, LDS and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Please, does anyone want to discuss this? Anybody else want me to file a report? Yeah, I'm gonna ask for an application. Article 8 and the amendment of the SD, LDS and DeSUS Group of Members. Bogdan Barovich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Since we are at Article 8, I would have the following question or doubt. On Article 8 of the Law, the Legislative and Legal Service made a very specific and justifiable comment, from which it is understood that, in fact, Article 8 itself is discriminatory. This is because Article 8 of this Law, or this law, regulates the provision of goods and services as an act that is permitted – so I am talking about the fact that this law says that ordinary people can sell corrupt and bad goods, but not disabled people. In Article 8, if you look at it, the Legislative and Legal Service says: "So the provision of goods or services is prohibited in any case and must not be regulated by law as an act which is otherwise permitted, and in all cases there is an exception to the prohibition of discrimination against persons with disabilities." In fact, if we read Article 8, it is possible to understand that, if you do, people can sell a little bad, broken goods or goods that have run out of time, but not to the disabled. What a person understands is that something that is generally forbidden is duplicated in this sense. I understand the law and regulation and I think because there was no correction, I think we should do the editing here. In fact, I warn you to be careful about this, it is really an understanding of this article, if you can give us corrupt and bad goods, the only thing they should not give to the disabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will first express my support for Article 8, as it is written, for the amendment proposed, I do not have any thoughts or support for it and also for the law itself. I would therefore like to mention, by the way, that when we have heard a number of concerns about how badly the marriage has been prepared, I doubt that this assessment is the right one because it has proved through the debate that it is not. First, it must be said that a number of positive measures have been listed. A number of measures that are in favour of the disabled and that this law is prepared in such a way that, despite other laws governing the protection of persons with disabilities, it gives a surplus, i.e. it gives more than other laws, and is not only designed to prevent or command discrimination, but is procreative, it tries to offer new opportunities and new roles to the various institutions that make life easier for those with disabilities every day. What happened and was really bad in the process happened in Parliament. Here the question has been asked whether all these amendments, which were not prepared by the proposer, but by the parliamentary groups, are indeed such that they coincide with the fundamental intent of this law, or perhaps move away in some elements. The disabled clearly or their representatives have made it clear that they disagree with some of the amendments and it is right to say that we have also recognised the Members and Members of the Committee and have returned the individual decisions closer to what was coordinated before the law came to Parliament. In short, we have been assured that the law has been drawn up in agreement with the disabled and has been so sent to Parliament. Here he encountered a number of amendments, which were particularly unacceptable or less acceptable for representatives of disabled organisations. To Article 8 which speaks of the accessibility of goods and services available to the public, an amendment has today been added, which I believe also needs to be supported and also judges in the context of those amendments which have been adopted on the working body and which bring the provisions back closer to what has already been harmonised with the disabled before this procedure in Parliament. Now that we do not mention everything in this Article 8 is an important fifth paragraph, which speaks of the fact that there is actually a need to prevent arbitrariness, as it is now written in the bill, because on the one hand we have suppliers of goods and services and on the other hand users, someone might misunderstand the syntagmo which speaks of a relative burden for the provider. And if this were to remain so, this would be indefinable, it would probably be legally inconclusive, and even more ambiguities could be allowed in the implementation of such provisions. Therefore, I think it is right that a separate act, as this amendment provides for, lays down minimum standards below which it is not possible to do so. This does not, of course, prevent us from raising these standards – depending on individual bodies, their size, their possibilities, financial and other – from raising them. So because this amendment is also bringing the content of this law closer to what was once agreed, I support this article, the amendment and the law itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is Marjan Krizman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will also support the amendment, which complements Article 8, which logically speaks of accessibility, which at the moment, if we just look at legislation such as those in Hungary, Germany and Austria, we have finally decided and adopted a law that will allow equal access to goods and services for people with disabilities. Of course, today, if you go to the Red Cross or Karitas or anywhere, you will find that even where a person would really expect obstacles to be removed, and that, if you want, the simplest thing is going to be made for the disabled, there is no such thing. If we haven't been able to do that yet, we'll find it's every 12. The Slovenian is actually disabled, then we'll have to deal with the law. In my opinion, and here I am joining Mr Rezman, this law was written together with the disabled, and then we modified it and returned it to an acceptable content. And it is perfectly clear and perfectly normal that if we talk about the disabled, of course we will do everything to enable the disabled to have an equal, equal life for those who are not. Therefore, this supplement, which speaks of the minimum requirements for access to goods and services made available to the public by the Minister responsible for disabled persons, will be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The opinion of the parliamentary group has already expressed support for the law and it is therefore quite clear that I am joining this support, as well as supporting the amendment to Article 8, which has already been justified in eliminating discrimination. But I think it makes sense at this point to explain one more thing. Just as I will support the amendment to Article 8, I will also support the amendments to Articles 36 and 38, which have been deleted on the Committee and would therefore lose the meaning of this amendment if we do not return the text which also speaks of which fines, whose sanctions are envisaged if these requirements are not. I think that from the experience we have, it is essential that it is too little, if we just write down into the law, that accessibility to services must be ensured, if then that drain is lost, which is called the inspector's finding or the findings of the inspection, that this is not done and is lacking also what we call a baton. By also expressing my support for Articles 36 and 38 and the amendments to these two articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u28	When I spoke about the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we made it clear that we will not support these amendments, nor will we oppose this amendment. However, it is also true that I have been challenged at this time by one of our colleagues, namely, I have not applied to the replica, and I would like to stress only one thing, if I may, Mr President. The report to the Proposal for a Law on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities, second reading, EPA 968-V, states: "The broader discussion was mainly about the provision of Article 3 which regulates the meaning of the terms. In doing so, the representatives of the disabled organisations drew attention to the fact that they agreed with the proposed law without any addition, as they also participated in its discussion. They stressed, however, that they did not support the amendments submitted, as they did not participate in their formulation. They also believe that they change the concept of a law that is not suitable for people with disabilities." This is what was said in the position of the Group of Members, and colleague Rezman tried to replicate it. At the same time, I would like to highlight something else. Speaking of discrimination, I would like to draw the Ministry and the Minister's attention to a very important matter. We have discrimination within the disability categories. For example, I know a case and a problem when a child born to deafness has no disability status. But if you've become deaf for the time of your life, then you've heard it before, it's settled and it's disabled. How is that possible? So they're both deaf, they both have the same problem, one has disability status, the other doesn't. This is discrimination within the disabled category. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Secretary, to examine this matter at the Ministry because I have proof of that. I know a family that's been dealing with these problems for 18 years and can't possibly solve this problem where people with disabilities within one category would be treated the same way, whether they were born deaf or deaf for life. That seems discriminatory to me, and I would really like to ask, Mr. Secretary. There is no need to answer this question today if you find it difficult to answer. However, I expect that at some point in time you will answer this question to me how to solve such a problem so that in the future we do not have within the disabled categories of discrimination, because I am convinced that this is discriminatory, that one has disability status and the other does not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? All I see is Mr. Rezman's hand. Mr. Rezman has a replica, then I'll file a report.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to reiterate that there will be no confusion about this. My claim was that the marriage was well prepared. This was also provided by representatives of disabled organisations. And what was worse was the procedure after the law had already entered the parliamentary procedure and when individual amendments had been removed. The amendments were mainly made on the basis of comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service. And despite the fact that I highly appreciate the work of our Legislative and Legal Committee, I have pointed out on the Committee that there is no automation whereby any comment by the Legislative and Legal Service should be translated into amendments. And because we tried here because we were too critical to comment on the Law-Legal Service when the amendments were being prepared, probably too critical, it happened that amendments were adopted, which were, in the end, quite unacceptable to all, because we changed them again with the amendments of the mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I beg your pardon? So, who else would like to discuss it? We'll just report it. Bogdan Barovich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Although I am, I would like the representatives of the Government to answer my doubts about the second paragraph of Article 8 to which the Legislative and Legal Service reminds me. I will say again, the Legislative and Legal Service warns that the law must not regulate something like this, as set out in the second paragraph of Article 8. The law must not regulate something like conduct that is otherwise permitted. In all cases, there is an exception to the prohibition of discrimination against persons with disabilities. Once again, the provision of goods and services is regulated in all other laws and does not permit any of the conduct described in this article, and therefore it is not technically acceptable to assume that such offering occurs. Therefore, the Legislative and Legal Service warns that the law of such conduct must not, it says, "not" to regulate, but this law regulates it. I think that the Law-Legal Service probably knows very objectively what the law can do and what it cannot do. And in the event that we accept this and it happens by accident, God forbid, to any dispute in this regard, the matter may, of course, fall if the Law-Legal Service says that the law cannot regulate it. So these are my last words about Article 8. I have twice drawn attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the denial of something, which is what this law says, namely that something is not allowed to happen in this law. So there won't be any second thoughts.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Minister Ivan Svetlik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u34	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, I'd answer that question right away. If you read it carefully again, this second paragraph states: "Discrimination in terms of the accessibility of goods and services available to the public means, above all, the abandonment of the supply of goods and services available to the public, the disabled or their supply to the disabled, under different and worse conditions than others." In short, no one is deprived of it. However, the disabled are exposed here because the law and this regulation are intended for them because they are a particularly vulnerable group. That's all this is about, so no one else will be put in any worse position. However, particular attention is given to the fact that it is observed that, due to the different circumstances listed below, they may be inequitable in terms of their potential for access to goods and services. In short, we do not see any possibility of inequality in relation to the other population. If I can answer the question of the different situation of the deaf from the birth and those who deafen later. In particular, this deafness, which arises later, is usually caused by work or other circumstances, which then excuses an individual to acquire the status of a disabled person, but this individual has already paid a contribution to pension and disability insurance, and from this title is, of course, entitled to certain rights which, of course, cannot belong to someone who has not yet been included in this insurance since birth. It is true, however, that this law itself guarantees, as we have already stated, additional rights also and especially for the deaf. Because, in particular, when it comes to the possibility of social inclusion, communication, we have been paying particular attention to this group, and this group has so far not been well resolved. We believe that this law will contribute to their better situation. I would also like to point out that the law was written in cooperation with disability organisations, prepared, resolved these issues. However, it is not necessarily always in line with all disability organisations. It is simply that we cannot resolve all the issues of interest in the law. Of course, these interesting issues always open up between different groups and people with disabilities, and there is, in fact, no exception. Where common agreements can be reached, we have come where they cannot be reached, but after expert judgement, we have proposed what looks like the best solution. In any case, this law has not taken anything away from anyone, we are trying to add additional rights, additional opportunities for individual groups of people with disabilities to be better accepted and also to be more easily integrated into their environments, into our lives. Those who fail to do so will also feel the appropriate sanctions provided for by the law. Of course, these rights will also have some material consequences for individual institutions, for individual service providers. Adaptation of transport infrastructure is not a small matter. However, we have decided to require the providers of these services within a certain period of time. Similarly, others, of course, believe that we must follow what we have signed when we signed the United Nations Declaration on Equal Opportunities for this Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I think or I am sure that this 8th article is well written and that it gives people with disabilities what they have in our own society, I would say, belongs to modern society. Surely, here I agree with the Minister that all specific areas and specific facts are sometimes not even possible to write down, but probably not to be taken into account, but, as I say, given that it is very well written, we are now considering the amendment to Article 8, obviously we have all slightly forgotten, even this fifth paragraph, the added fifth paragraph is completely logical and the law would not be complete, it would not be well enough to regulate the matter, it would not be well enough to regulate who should now prescribe the rules of the game. As a result, I think that this amendment, which is a day, is still improving, in my opinion, a very good law, a good article, and I do not fully understand why, at first, I thought there would probably be no special debate in this article. I will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In the light of the debate on Article 8 which was encouraged by my colleague Barovic on the issue of marital sustainability, I will say so. Opinions were also expressed as to whether it was always appropriate to take into account the comments of the legal service or to take better account of the always comments of disabled organisations. I am firmly convinced that if we, as the legislator, ignore the comments of the legal service and always listen to the comments of the disabled organisations, then it will not be a long time before Slovenia is not a legal state, but a disabled country will be organised. That is why I think that, of course, it is perfectly correct, what has been happening on the Committee and that the Committee has made sure that the law is in addition to the content it has, that it is also written in such a way as to be part of the Slovenian legal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Anyone else? Mr. Pojbich. If I don't, I'll just give him my word, orally. Please, Mr. Marian Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Excuse me, I'll be very brief. However, I would like to say this because I did not expect the Minister to answer today the dilemma that I have raised and the discrimination within the disability category and what you, Mr Minister, have said, I think this is unacceptable. Because there can be no question between one who has been deaf since birth and one who has become deaf for the time of life when it comes to recognizing the status of disability. But if the question is, if someone is working and someone is not, they both have the same problems, they face the same problems in this society, then this discrimination should not be at the forefront. This discrimination is and this discrimination exists. This law, which was prepared, is prepared in order to exclude this discrimination. I'd like to say the following. Disability organisations were urgently required to listen when such legislation was being prepared. I am sure that if we had taken into account a number of comments from disabled organisations, this law would have been significantly better prepared and a significant wider population of people with disabilities, or most people with disabilities would have covered this law. Now we have one of these again, I will say, disability law, because if most disabled organizations disagree with it, then for me it is also a disability law, which will only be a letter on paper, but in fact the question of what added value will be to the disabled. Here I see the same problem as I see when it comes to social dialogue [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u41	Comrade Pojbič, your debate is a completely different topic, you yourself have highlighted. That's Article 8 and it has nothing to do with it. I would ask you to stick to the debate within Article 8. You explained the position yourself and the client. The topic you have set out is another topic, perhaps relevant to other matters, but perhaps not now. Please remain under the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u42	Okay. I'm just gonna finish. I think it is more important to take into account social partners and disability organisations when it comes to adopting this legislation, then legislation would be significantly better and better. And we'd avoid a lot of problems. As we go through all these things, we have these consequences, as we will have in adopting this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u43	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 8 and the amendment to this Article? He doesn't want to. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the SD, LDS, Zares and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Please, for your application. Bogdan Barovich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Of course, I absolutely support this amendment, as well as all the provisions of Article 16, but I have one very simple question. Whether this article of this law will also be in line with other sectoral laws relating to road transport laws, etc.? In fact, as many of the colleagues and colleagues who have been in this Parliament for some time remember how many times the Slovenian national party has pointed out that, in particular, blind people with dogs were not allowed guides, they were not allowed to go on the bus, on the train and on certain transports. That's what's been going on. I hope and I wish it would never happen again. However, all I want to know is whether this article, this law will now allow it and whether it will comply with another law, for example, the Public Transportation Act in Road Traffic, and we will still see the bus where the board or the picture of the dog being banned, whether it is a guide dog? That's all I care about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u45	Minister, he wants to answer. Minister Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Article 39, Mr Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss article 16 and the amendment? He doesn't want to. I conclude the debate on Article 16 and the amendment to this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the SD, LDS, DeSUS and Zares parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. Therefore, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 24 and the amendment of the SD, LDS, DeSUS and Zares parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I note that he does not want to, so I am concluding the debate on Article 24 and the amendment to this Article. I am putting forward the seventh chapter and the amendment of the SD, LDS, Zares and DeSUS groups. This is an amendment to chapter seven. Anybody want to talk? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 36 and the amendment of the SD, LDS, Zares and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Andreja Black Neglec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u48	At this point, I would like to point out in particular what I said in the introduction. Of course, the interests of stakeholders must be fully followed, but we must take account of the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. And since these points were not sufficiently taken into account in the preliminary drafting of these Articles, a correction was needed. In short, no one argued that there would be no criminal provisions in this law. For we know that every law without criminal provisions is a toothless tiger. But it's important how they're written and why they're written. I'd like to re-emphasize. The Committee has shown maximum attention to the interests of persons with disabilities, but the limits given to Members who need to defend the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss article 36 and the amendment to this article? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 38 and the amendment of the SD, LDS, Zares and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 43 and the amendment of the SD, LDS, Zares and DeSUS groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. The agenda item is on: Secondly, the proposal for a small part law, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u50	Thank you very much. In front of you, Your Honor, is the Small Work Bill, which seeks to increase the flexibility of the labour market, as employers have long warned that rapid response to market needs is a condition for maintaining competitiveness. More and more people are already doing work of a temporary or occasional nature and it is therefore necessary to set standards for the performance of these works and also to ensure workers with comparable rights from work and social security. In the debate so far, it has highlighted as problematic the possibility that the unemployed may also be able to do little work. I am convinced that the inclusion of unemployed persons in the Small Work Act is in their favour, as it gives them the opportunity to earn additional earnings and increases their ability to obtain regular employment without affecting the rights of unemployment insurance. It is important that the unemployed make a voluntary decision for a small job. The unemployed are also subject to additional restrictions on the performance of small jobs, as it is the duty of each unemployed person to seek regular employment and to fulfil the obligations set out in the employment plan. The law also provides that active employment policy measures encourage the transition from small work to a regular working relationship, which will benefit the unemployed and all young people who first enter the labour market. The Government will work with the social partners to develop concrete measures. The bill on small work also regulates the occasional and occasional work of students. We have seen the need for change in this area for years. Various surveys in the field have shown that student work is actually a strong competition in the labour market, as the average pay to the student for the company represents only around 55% of the cost of the average paid worker. Studies also show that the scope of student work actually increases unemployment rates mainly for unemployed and young people. The Small Work Bill also provides for a higher burden of small work compared to the current burden of 29.5% of student work. The burden will be the same for all beneficiaries, as it is only in this way that we can ensure the equality of all beneficiaries in access to small work. The contribution rates shall be set in such a way as to ensure the comparability and proportionality of the level of contributions with the contributions paid in the case of a working relationship. The lower burden of a small part of the delay, compared to the 38.2% workload, would represent a much competitive advantage, perhaps too much, too little work, which could be harmful to regular employment, and we are also limiting the extent of the use of small work. Funding of 14 % of the benefit paid by the employer will be allocated in the largest percentage to the financing of scholarships and student homes. All recipients of these funds will have to comply with all the public funding rules, which also means more efficient and cost-effective spending. In preparing concrete solutions to the law, we have also built on experiences from abroad. The small work bill is often compared with the small part of the German system, but the system, despite some similarities, has a significant difference in key elements. Based on experience from Germany, we propose a significantly more limited work in Slovenia with clear conditions for carrying out this work and with emphasis on effective monitoring and control. In order to limit small jobs exclusively to shorter informal work, specific restrictions are proposed in the Small Work Act for persons and employers. The German system does not know such restrictions, so in practice it often happens that the working relationship is replaced with small parts. With clearly defined limitations of small work, the possibility of abuse will be reduced and it will allow more effective control. However, little work has positive effects in Germany, as research shows that the size of the grey economy in Germany has decreased by around 7% due to the existence of a small part. The exposure to the evaluation of the German system has also shown that little work can also be a bouncing board for regular employment mainly for unemployed and inactive. The Small Work Act will bring a new form of work to the Slovenian labour market. It means an opportunity for employers as well as for all target groups that will be able to do little work. The Special Expert Group will regularly monitor its effects and propose any corrections. We therefore propose, honourable Members and Members, that you support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the president, Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič, to present the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons shall be held at its 22nd meeting, on 8 November. 9. 2010 as a parent labour body, the proposal for a small work law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. Representatives and representatives of the proposed law, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of the State Council and the president of the Student Organisation of Slovenia attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. The legislative and legal service also made specific comments to the draft law, which were largely taken into account in the form of amendments tabled by the coalition parties. The Committee also received an opinion from the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which does not support the proposal. In accordance with Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons has moved to a second reading of the draft law and held a debate and vote on individual articles and proposed amendments. In the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled, the members and members of the Committee paid the highest attention to the proposed solutions to the draft law relating to the beneficiaries of small work and the reduction in the number of hours to carry out small work and to higher taxes, which would be less interesting for both the employer and the employer. In particular, additional administration has been highlighted, as the number of hours carried out in accordance with the law will need to be closely monitored and compared with the number of jobs. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered the amendments tabled and adopted amendments from SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. However, it did not accept the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 4, for the new Articles 4a, Article 22 and Article 23, Article 4, Article 4 of the SLS Group of Members of Parliament, Article 4, Article 3 of the amendments, Article 5 and Article 29 of the Rules of Procedure, Article 22 and Article 29 of the Rules of Procedure. The amendments of Mr Franz Žnidaršič to Article 4 have become irrelevant. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 19th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. That is why we are going to discuss the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2010 I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SLS Group of Members and the amendment of SD, LDS, Zares and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Willy Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will tell the introduction that, although there is a very different response to the bill in public, support is provided on my part of the law because I think it is good. There could probably be something else in any provision, but we cannot break it now by the individual interests of this law, so I support it as it is. When we evaluate the amendments to this law, it goes to the amendment tabled by the Slovenian People's Party, which was also presented by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, particularly in order to change the situation of large companies. I understand all these instincts, I understand that some people think that simply by means of an accounting operation, I would say evenly distribute these quotas hours, but this is not the only criteria that guide us when we decide whether to give support or not. I think some other circumstances are important. Already because they are large, this is about those who have 1,250 or more, 5, 6, 7 thousand employees, in a completely different situation than those who are small producers and who are more difficult to adapt to market conditions. Large ones thus make it easier to make annual plans, significantly easier to deploy their employees, significantly easier to organise their work processes and already have because they are large and have a different market share, in a position which, in my opinion, is certainly more favourable than a position that a smaller economic operator can occupy on the market. And when we evaluate the amendment, we probably have to evaluate it in terms of how it responds to fundamental ambitions, for the purpose, to the objectives of the law that we adopt. One of the basic objectives of this law is to try to cover all the contributions, for all the benefits that individuals receive. If we ask ourselves what this amendment would do, say, to this effect, I see no positive effect. Another such important objective or purpose is to reduce abuse in student travel, to reduce the grey economy and to reduce employment and black work. Even here, when I tried to think, I did not see that this could be significantly improved, by allowing the large to employ more people or to get higher employment quotas within a small part of the job, but I see here some completely different measures that need to be taken and that are also partially processed. The next of the candidates' ambitions is to reduce unfair competition. Here these references can be written by the proposer in the provisions of the draft law as to what they contribute. The number of small-time employees in large companies or quotas that are increasing enormously, and according to my opinion in this proposal, there is nothing to contribute to this. What would really change and is also enshrined in the basic ambitions of the proposed law, however, is the flexibility of the labour market. But we probably have enough flexibility on the labour market by now. A lot of people think it's too much. Many estimate that there will also be experts not only the politicians, that there will be a need for careful attention, that what the minister has previously announced will have to have a really thorough monotoring, that we will not find that much work flows into a bit of a sieve that will not even be too dense. Therefore, this reason, in particular, to enable large companies to be more flexible in their work, is not sufficient in my opinion to support this amendment, so I think it is good if the proposal that has been processed so far remains in this form. I can't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. We are aware that, of course, it is necessary, specifically in relation to the article, for small companies, that there must be relatively more opportunities for small work, especially for larger companies, of course, the problem of the different organisation of larger companies. Surely this need for companies located in one place is significantly smaller or different in one place, if you want, than in a company organised in several business units, in establishments, even in different places. So we understand that the specificity of individual companies is such that it is not even possible to cover everything. But of course, it is true that these are the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce, we have tried to adapt this proposal, we have tried to propose a more meaningful, more proportionate limitation of small work depending on the size of the company or organisation. As I have already said, it should be borne in mind that employers, that companies, that companies are organised differently, therefore we have proposed a federal transition to allow the number of employees to be employed through small work rather than some jumpy, sometimes incomprehensible leaps. As a result, we feel it would be good to accept this amendment. It is true that the purified text improves the situation with regard to the original proposal, but changes should also be made in the sense that they have been proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah, I'm just gonna ask for an application. Please sign in again. The word is Marijan Pojbič. Please, we are discussing Article 4 and the two amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u58	Yes, of course, Madam President, thank you for your warning. I will, of course, support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. At the same time, I would like to say my disagreement with the proposal of this law. There's been a lot of talk lately at the expense of this little work law. As you know, only two countries have little work in Europe, Austria and Germany, because it is a big indicator that this is not a law that is useful to most countries and economies in European countries. It was very clear that those who took the time and listened to the representatives of Germany and Austria, as they saw the small work law, were very clear on their part that the law was harmful both in Germany and in Austria and that little work was causing much work and that at least categories of unemployed persons should not be included in this law. But as a roller, I don't know what to call it, it's just that our government doesn't see and hear and hear, it goes through all the social partners. Everyone claims that this law is not good and not appropriate, but we want to force this law into the National Assembly. I don't know, I really don't understand this government of ours, this authority of ours, whether in these four years we have to evaluate everything that has been done in this country. Whether we must also emerge from what has been sacred in the past, this is social dialogue, out of this process when adopting legislation, because it seems to me that it is social dialogue that can ultimately bring decisions and the legal basis in such a way that the dissatisfied majority of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are with it. And this should also be the goal of this legislation, which we are adopting, which is so sensitive. It would be important to find social dialogue and, if we already find that only two countries in Europe have such legislation, and these two other countries are trying to get this legislation out of their legal order, but once such legislation has been adopted, it is extremely difficult to do so. And that's what the representatives from Germany and Austria have been alerting us to. But unfortunately, I must say that when this presentation was in Slovenia in Ljubljana, we were only a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Alenka Jeraj and I. And this also seemed rather unfair to me by the representatives of the Committee on Labour, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities and the President that they did not attend this meeting, because they would still benefit from further decisions and decisions in the light of the adoption of this Small Work Act. Once again, I am convinced that this small - work law — as it was said there — is harmful! Harmful for this country. It will give rise to a lot of work and the question is whether it is possible to survive with little work. I'm sure you don't. With 6,000 euros a year, it will simply not be possible to survive. And those people, especially the unemployed, who we now have for sure 120 grand or more, will be prisoners of this small job, and I'm sure those who are now at the Employment Institute [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u59	Comrade Pojbich, to the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u60	I'll finish it, Mr. President. It would be right to see this debate today and to see what legislation is being adopted in the current mandate and how harmful the consequences will be for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] That is why I strongly oppose this law and, of course, we will not accept it in the Slovenian Democratic Party or vote against such harmful solutions for Slovenian citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word is Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Unlike my colleague, we do not oppose this law. In accordance with our amendment, I can say that this law is an introduction to a more flexible employment policy. I wish that we did not have this law in the long term, but I would particularly like this flexible policy to be the policy that would increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Recently, I have seen some data that this flexibility on this scale of competitiveness of our economy is putting us under a lot of pressure to the bottom. Look, I'm not at all for these things, either, that little work is less taxed or any work, because we already have a job opportunity for shorter working hours today, where contributions, as I know, I hope that I am not mistaken, are totally equal to normal work. And in my opinion, taxes should be as much as they should be charged in hours of work done. The Small Work Act will also contribute to the reduction of the grey economy, I could say, we will never infect it completely. But make sure that small entrepreneurs too, because they don't want to work with the help of the grey economy. I've been in business with a small company myself, and I tell you, it's much easier to work, if you have everything arranged, you pay for it, sometimes they say, "what is Caesar's, let it be Caesar's, the rest is ours." And nice without any trouble, no fear of any inspection. It is true, however, that there are also major obstacles to work in general, such as small work, and I do not know what will happen to health checks and such things. These are also very heavy burdens for the employer, even if he works for a small job. There is something to be said about these too. In short, I see this law as one option to get us to erase this law once and for all, the labour legislation is flexible and competitive in Europe, while the country should regulate for social services. And if we went to the field today and asked entrepreneurs what they wanted, to have flexible labour laws, and even if some percentage of the more benefits were paid, I'm sure they'd opt for this other option, because it doesn't just stop them from developing, because when you do work, you do work, but you don't study how and what you're going to do about it, so that you don't have any of the inspections in this process. And one more thing to say. There is also a major problem in Slovenia with hospital leave-outs, even these matters could be discussed once because this burden is also a heavy burden for small entrepreneurs. It is necessary to know where 100 of them work, if, say, 5 of them in the hospital, the process is still going somehow, while the entrepreneur is alone with 2 employees and he is one in the hospital, then we know what is coming, and all of these costs should be paid. In short, I support the law and, of course, our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Andrey Magain has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u64	Nice greeting to all in attendance! Although I was among the supporters of this law months ago, I am becoming increasingly critical of it and with a heavy heart — even with all due respect for the ministry — I will not be able to support this law. But it's about this fourth paragraph. I have tried to make things better, to make things better, to bring them to a level where they actually have little work to do. Just an urn limit – I don't think that's the right approach. It should also be limited in both fiscal and sectoral terms. In this context, small work can only be carried out in organisations and institutions where supervision is possible. I am afraid, even at the expense of long-standing practice and experience, that this control will not take place and that little work will become a major abuse, such as now business contracts and other shorter forms of work. Unfortunately. Look, just one indent of this article, which is very eloquent, that is, when we read the details, we see where things are going. In the case of an employer who has no employee, so a company without an employee can do 360 hours of small work, at the level of the worker is limited 60 hours, 360 divided by 60 we get 6 workers who will be able to perform work in a company where they do not have any regular employees. If that's the limit, I don't see it. How are we gonna jam the chain? How are we going to make sure that in one of the large shops behind the counter or the cash register, they will not work all day long on a small job order when they can sit there regularly busy. I don't know how we're gonna stop this. I've seen things a little differently. Little work is a great pleasure. In certain cases also for workers, some additional work, additional earnings, and in particular for employers who can in difficult situations, when there is a sudden increase in the volume of work or the loss of an employee, help with these workers and include them in the work. That's the positive flexibility. However, such arrangements, which are very beneficial — you get the worker quickly, and you forgive him quickly — should in principle be very expensive. Thus, the approach should be reversed as it is now. The arrangement, where you take the worker today, after you forgive him, should also be a financial burden for the company in the sense that the employer who serves such favourable arrangements also has some kind of responsibility in the financial sense, as this worker will be back on the road or at the social work centre or in the institution, in the institutions that will have to take care of him, and should therefore pay a little more. However, one who employs an employee for an indefinite period of time, which is a high risk in our situation, should have a substantially lower tax burden. Well, taxes would stimulate. An indeterminate time would be a kind of reward for the employer, because it is also a big business risk for him, but we did not go in this, we went in the opposite direction. Little work is less taxed and will therefore be extremely attractive for employers. All these hourly items that are here are already controversial in themselves. How the matter will be monitored in practice, I will tell you right now. Even if we hire 100 inspectors at the office now, there won't be, there's too many business entities. No one's gonna be able to stand at the front door of a company or some office and control whether this employee is employed on a contract that says one hour a day, maybe three hours, maybe four, twelve, I don't know how many hours it's gonna be true. The inspector will stand at the door or wait on the street and control. I know about the cases where he had a business contract, the inspector came into the office, saw that the contract was fine, it said one hour a day. But he wondered if he was really so lucky or bad that he ran into a worker just the hour he was supposed to be at work. What a coincidence. Three times an hour a week, and that's when he came. Of course, this worker worked all day after eight hours. Surveillance is not theoretically possible, neither practical, nor theoretically possible. That is why I have proposed that, in addition to the fact that a small amount of work should be burdened differently, in order for employers to serve it in exceptional cases, I have also proposed a restriction on areas. Perhaps the only thing would be, unlike the free unions that radically want to ban the unemployed from including small jobs precisely because of abuses, I suggested that this should be limited mainly to those institutions and institutions, to public institutions, to public companies, where it is possible to have some control where they do not already have, for example, cash, where it is not possible to pay the employee to a hand, where different records are already included within the institutions. German analysis also showed that things were born. At first, we were interested in reading this information. Fragment, and suddenly we get that we cannot compare Germany to Slovenia, but here again the situation is a little different. They're different, but not in that sense. There'll be abuses. I'm not signing myself under this abuse, because I know it's gonna happen today. Why? As many years ago as I did at this level, even as the president of society, when we wrote to the Ministry, when we even conducted surveys – we were without money – and we were able to carry out a survey – when we received data from the workers when we turned to the Ministry, to the inspectorate – nothing. Therefore, I am not surprised that Drago Kos did an analysis before his departure, where he actually accused government officials of corruption of abandonment. Since 2007, the Ministry, the Government and all the departments, not only the Ministry, have been given initiatives to do something to protect workers, and it is unlikely that so little will happen in these years, which is justified in the fact that administrative structures are essentially working at the hands of the labour structure. I understand my own way. However, we must also understand these workers, who, after so many years of the rule of law, are still fighting for fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word is by Dejan Levanic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that for some time there would be a debate on what the Small Work Act should bring in the future. It is important, however, that we look at the arguments of both sides and try to see or answer the question whether this law actually harms those three groups it covers, that is, young students and students.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u67	Article 4, amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u68	I'll be right there, yeah. As far as this amendment is concerned and of course this is related to when we talk about restrictions and we want more traders, those who employ more people, to set a higher quota, i.e. more employment and more opportunities through small work. Abuses can occur here, and there have been abuses in the past. To see how the student work went. Not only did it take place through students and students, but it was also used by others in larger shopping centres, larger companies, etc. They will also have the possibility now, although limited, so I cannot support this amendment to allow even higher quotas for these centres, but to limit the current student work, i.e. the work through the guides where the anomalies occurred – we have previously talked about various abuses that are supposed to occur with the Small Work Act in the future – but we do not know that. The abuses that are now in the labour market through student work for all target groups are happening and we want to prevent this. And with such an amendment, we will only come to allow the extension of work through the small work law, that there will be more, and that then the difficult transition will be to a regular form of work. This is precisely why, for example, we cannot compare the small work law or the small work in Germany with what we have here in this law. We can't compare this because of these limitations. If some points in some amendments were to be amended, an increase in the number of hours could result in such comparability. However, the current law is not nearly comparable to what they have in Germany, precisely because of these restrictions and this is crucial. And I will not support the amendment to this article, because I think it is very crucial that we limit a little work. We're gonna make it possible to what? [[...]] We will also allow the unemployed, pensioners, to be able to enter the labour market, so that the employees can remain in a limited position to keep in contact with the employer, to have all the rights they belong to, and not only in contact with the employer, but also later on in a regular form of work. I say, better than being unemployed, to have unemployment status, which, of course, the fact that the unemployed person will be included in the Small Work Act does not affect the status of the unemployed person. So I see more positive than negative things not only because of the removal of the anomalies, but also because of the possibility of new working forms, that there will be a possibility of some work for all three groups. I see the possibility that this will be one round whole, that there will also be more control within the Ministry of Labour, which now does not exist. When we talk about how many quotas are allowed in an individual company, so how many employees there are, we need to know that a minimum compromise has been reached between those who employ few people and those who employ many. I think that the Small Work Act offers more opportunities than opportunities or I do not agree to harm, so I will not support this amendment and the law will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I'm just going to ask you to apply for the debate on the two amendments to Article 4. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! Of course, we remain in the position that uniform legislation for such different groups will not produce the desired results. I doubt the Ministry will be satisfied with this in the future. We ourselves have proposed more supervision in student work, a single entry and similar matters that could solve all these problems, or at least gradually come up with some optimal solutions rather than turning some system upside down, but we do not know exactly what it will bring or just suppose. I think that at a time when there was a public debate first, and also on a committee, there were a lot of arguments about why things should have been reconsidered and why it might be wise to consider also excluding the group of unemployed from the law. As already mentioned, from Austria, Germany shows that they are then forever unemployed. In the beginning, the Minister said that it was necessary to act quickly, then we would expect that the law would enter into force tomorrow, not just 2012, so that someone else would deal with the consequences. All that we have heard about experiences from Germany and Austria that talk about once a marriage is adopted and in some new way a possibility of these short-term jobs is very difficult to fix. In Austria, they've amended the law six times, and it's still not good. It is likely that similar things will happen here, and then we will be stuck after another time, when things have been arranged differently, and we have not dealt with them in the right way. For us, however, the dilemma remains, because we are talking about Article 4 and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party. We will support this amendment, although we are wondering, so far we have had restrictions on those who have worked, not with employers, what this means for all those seasonal works that are connected to the summer months, for example, and so on. Despite all of this, the SLS amendment is improving the proposal that is now in law, so we will support it. The rest of us don't. Then we will also oppose the law. We think it is right to introduce a more flexible job, i.e. job opportunities for a shorter time, to arrange this differently, but by law we introduce a new administration, three-partite, i.e. three signatories from the current two, burden an additional employment agency and therefore we fear that the solutions and objectives the Ministry wants will not be achieved.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The minister, Dr. Ivan Svetlik, also spoke. You want a word now? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u72	If you allow, I would comment on some of the assessments carried out so far, and then also the definition of the amendment tabled. Look at the issue of control over this work. Enrollment of students is regulated, will be regulated by then, certainly when this law comes to life, so that this supervision on this side will be ensured. Of course, there is some dilemma that comes up; we want more control, we don't want administration, it's always impossible to do. We have foreseen that this whole administration is actually being carried out electronically. Today, this does not require much time, so we think that, despite the greater requirements for control activities, the solution is acceptable. Note that a little work should actually be handled differently, but of course it is questionable that there is no work so far. There is nothing, but we do have little work defined in the law on job prevention and employment, which has never come to life. And where is this job now? He's in college and he's black. What this law brings is that we want to get this work into legal, formal frameworks so that people who do this work in any way or other can also do this work in an appropriate legal manner. I think it's already one of the most important gains. It is clear, however, that there is little work left to do in this sense to add the form that we do not know today. A work that is occasional, temporary, and that takes a little time. From there, for seasonal work, for what is repeated over the course of months, we have already existing institutes, fixed-term contracts, short-term employment, etc. That's what this is about. We are merely complementing if you want the rainbow or the opportunities we are looking for in the field of employment and work, so that employers and, of course, those who want to do this work can be offered that they can do it in an orderly manner. An employer, as was said, could have a medical examination. He doesn't have any. That's what we're ordering the middleman to do. So this is not a problem, or the law regulates it in a different way. With regard to benefits and burdens to regulate this area, of course, it is necessary to say that if this small work wants to maintain some advantages and flexibility, then we cannot place the burden on it as high as any other work, because we cannot, on the basis of this work, guarantee the same rights to the people who will do this work. Not partly because there was an agreement and a proposal to go in this direction, that there was a concession fee, a assigned concession fee, from which scholarships and homes were then financed in particular. Of course, if this work with this concession fee is burdened, then not all contributions at the same level can be collected, because then this work would be completely uninteresting and would remain where it is today, as it is said, not, and when matters are done in other illegal ways. We have, of course, sought appropriate solutions here to ensure that contributions are deliberately collected, which are of particular benefit to students, especially young people, due to scholarships and the construction of student homes, but also, of course, for other contributions rights. The amount of contributions paid will also give appropriate rights in terms of calculating the working time for all categories of the population to do so. The question is, is it possible to survive and live with a small job? It's not. That is why we are opening up the possibility for those who have their status, their social security on a different basis. Students have it, they have it, they have it, they have it, they have it. This is an occasional job, an occasional option that complements the material position of an individual and does not save him. That's the point of this marriage. Of course, it is not the same solution as in Austria and Germany. We have not yet heard that we intend to end this form of work, but of course this phenomenon is being monitored and regulated accordingly. Even when we were talking with the representatives of these two countries, they said that our solution was good because it solves those things, those problems that they have not solved so far, because it limits this possibility appropriately so that there will be no abuse that we are afraid of. I think this is the arrangement that we are offering, but comparatively much better than now, when they are dealing, as it were, with work in a certain way, and in another with student work, which is so unregulated and does not give these students any rights. I have a very bad feeling in these debates when the extreme concern is about the effects that little work will have on people, but it forgets the effects it has on young people today and students doing this work unlimitedly, even without any rights, except for the pay they receive. The law, however, is trying to find a balance here. And the balance is also trying to find among the interests of employers who want to make use of this work, of course, so to speak, unlimitedly, to a very large extent, and therefore also propose smaller restrictions than we have proposed in the law. And of course, on the other hand, the workers, even the unions, have pointed to this, where we would, of course, like to minimize this work, or not have it at all. As we say, we better frame it into formal frameworks, give it a legal basis and remedy, as if it were passing. If I were to touch on the last question that this amendment addresses, where the issue of the situation is large. Here we did not use pure arithmetic – we would say, if it is small, it has such possibilities, and each larger one has proportionally more opportunities to use this work. This is simply not because large companies, however, have greater opportunities to plan their activities and have greater internal flexibility. This must be taken into account. Because they are large because they in some way determine how the employment space and their business space are formed. As a result, we have given these companies proportionately less opportunities to use this work. As it is said, however, many have responded precisely because they are likely to benefit from university work on an average, exceptionally, too much. And this will affect that, not only will some work that is now in a working relationship, then appear in the form of small work, but vice versa. That some of this work that the students are doing today will turn into a little work. With regard to the amendment itself proposed by the Slovenian People's Party and the other amendment drafted by the coalition, of course this amendment can also be accepted after our study, because it is compromiseous because it gives a different limit than before, knowing that we are, of course, giving more opportunities to use small work here and that can be charged with regular employment. Therefore, when deciding whether to allow this option or not, it is necessary to be aware of this. That's what I'd like to point out. However, from the Government's point of view, we have examined this proposal, we have accepted both solutions, one or the other. I would, if it wasn't rude, leave the Members to decide between each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u73	The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In many things, I agree with what the Minister has said. Our colleague Kres had previously stressed the flexibility of employment. This is certainly the case in companies, especially in large companies as a first priority, but as far as the rest of the work is concerned, because it cannot enter into this flexibility of employment in all forms – I would also stress this seasonal work, occasional work, work on larger orders and so on. As far as small work is concerned, we have already been at committee meetings and have already stressed the need for student work in particular at the first reading of the grant arrangements. This is certainly what needs to be regulated in parallel. I am pleased that this part is also regulated, so one such deadline for the implementation of this law is relatively long, i.e. 1. 1. 2012 or the end of the following year, the year and a half, so that, I am sure, a possible and should also arrange the scholarship. Well, in doing so, what I have not said before, I would like to point out here is that in large companies, the approval of these additional hours remains for employers with a large number of employees on the basis of the role of employer, which is decided by the Ministry. Therefore, on the basis of the role of the employer and in the previous opinion also other social partners. We have maintained this provision with the amendment. And like I said earlier. Of course, large companies, I agree that there are significantly more opportunities for job planning, job planning and so on, but this must take into account or distinguish those companies – and this can be solved with these roles – that work, as I said before, in one place that has a certain production located in one or a smaller number of places, than those that have their activities located in many establishments, many places and so on. For this reason, it seems to us that this amendment of ours should also be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u75	Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The limitations of small work, according to the drafter, are such that, in order to protect regular forms of employment, they are protected. Hour quotas for individual categories of employers, as proposed in the direction of the bill, have also been generated through negotiations between employers and employees. In the parliamentary group, we see no reason to support the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, which summarizes the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia to further increase the hours' quotas. As far as industry is concerned, there is more or less planned work. In our parliamentary group, we estimate that with the existing quotas for small workers, larger companies can meet the potential need to increase the volume of work that exceeds the planned estimate. However, as long as it turns out that the scope of work has been steadily increased, I see no reason why we should not work regularly, but only for a certain period of time. This is already an old practice of the present and the near past. As regards the large trades that would fall under this, for them a more favourable proposal, there is a major problem, according to our assessment of the working time, which is timed every day of the week, from Monday to Sunday. So it is also a constant need for a certain number of jobs in this activity. In stores are mostly female employees, says mothers and women, whom I believe they like to spend some day of the week in the circle of their families. Of course, we also have to mention here that there are several cases of hospital absence, just for such and other legitimate reasons, because they are mothers and have families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u77	Does anyone else want to discuss Article 4 or the two amendments? Check-in is on. Mr. Magg has the word. Gnyardsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The Small Work Act was intended to solve some very pressing problems and anomalies that occurred in this work, which became too much of a rule and too little exception for those who could otherwise study. The aim was to cover a certain part of concession money and, of course, commissions to student organisations in order to increase the number of scholarships, which was right. However, I fear that the legal solutions on the table today have not solved all the problems given that the administrative part of the solution is such that it takes a year to put into effect. Unfortunately, no amendment on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs has been adopted, although it is not necessarily necessary to believe that the law, as it is, has arrived there ideally. The problem is also that no agreement has been reached with trade unions and students at this time. In the long debates, it would probably suggest that compromise solutions be found so that there would not be – not now – incidents involving protests, but in general – arrangements for a final form. For example, the State Council does not support the law. The restrictions in Article 4 concerning licences are likely to be excessive and the amendments offered by the Slovenian People's Party may be overly loose. So that I have great difficulties in how to vote and I tend to have no power to rush so much with the adoption of this law, because it can be improved to the extent that the transitional period can be shorter on the one hand, and on the other hand it could be written in such a way as to achieve minimum agreement with trade unions and students and also with employers, while at the same time achieving what is not in the law, of course, now that is the age limit for student work. Today, a student's job under this law can be obtained by someone who is 40 years old and has student status. That's not the point. I think we would accelerate or shorten the period in which students would complete their studies, so that they would simply limit their student work to 26 years of age until all have the right to study for free. Even if two or three colleges change in the course of this, but not later, but this in this law, although we have said it or recommended it in the public debate in the first reading, is not the solution in this sense. I think it would suggest that this law should be finalized in such a way as to achieve a minimum of consensus within those affected on the one hand and, on the other hand, that solutions should be written in such a way that they may nevertheless be up to 1. 1. 2012 with a better version came to the National Assembly and also in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u79	Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u80	Dear Mr. Vice President! Even though I would like to talk about the solutions to this amendment, of course I cannot help but base my views on this amendment on the broader context of the Small Work Act. Firstly, I think that this is also the core of Article 4 in the comprehensive regulation of the labour market, which the Small Work Act represents only partially and therefore cannot be understood as an isolated part, but as an integral part of the broader changes in this area. Let me give you a law on labour market regulation, which we will consider at the next point. Activities to prevent black work than perhaps two typical examples of what this government and this coalition are trying to do in order to face better market conditions that would provide equal opportunities for all potential job seekers and those who perform in one way or another today in the labour market. And personally, I think that the very concept of the Small Work Act in this respect is one big step forward that can lead us to a cleaner situation. Of course, and this needs to be made clear, it opens up some of the dangers. I think the social partners have made these threats very clear. And even if I attach to the position expressed by Mr Minister in the introductory debate, I cannot shake the impression that only after this law has been put into practice will we be able to actually assess what its effects, for example, on the unemployed, will also begin to translate into little work the existing regular forms of employment and so on. But I think that we have properly incorporated into the law a system of regular evaluation that will allow the state to react quickly to the emergence of anomalies on the labour market, which the unions are pointing out very loudly. Let me focus on the amendment. For me, the basic question in this amendment is, of course, how a factor is determined between the number of small workers and the number of employees. In particular, in the context of the proposed new sixth paragraph of this Article, as proposed by the Slovenian People's Party, I find that relations in this respect are absolutely broken. The proposal is also within a broad parliamentary hearing and a number of coordinations, which, by the way, took place for virtually more than one year or about one year, but were somewhat defective, because the most important part of the social partners that this law tanges into the harmonisation of this law, unfortunately, did not include, we have come to the point that, for example, we can have six small workers per employee, a total monthly small part of 360 hours. So here we come to the ratio that the factor between the number of regular employees and the number of small workers is 6. Significantly different, for example, in the second indent, there are ten regular employees and 720 hours of small work, so let us simplify in 12 small workers, factor 1.2 and fall for each next indent. The amendment of the Slovenian People's Party this factor starts up again in the sky. 480 small workers on 6,250 regular employees. Of course, I only mention these numbers for example. The ranges within each class may be significantly higher, ranging from 10 to 30, from 50 to 100, and so on. And in this case, of course, we get back to factor 13. So it's a significantly larger factor than we think of as the lowest group. It is said that a group of companies employing between 0 and 10 workers. In this respect, of course, this logic is being disrupted. I can imagine maybe two companies in a country that, in fact, need small workers within the scope of the staff referred to in the sixth paragraph of this Article. In these same ways, it can be found that given the nature of the work, a more regular form of employment, any one of these, is actually more appropriate. And we know where this kind of work, the student work, especially in the last period, has been particularly broken up, and this is especially in the store. Typical of today's company, i.e. the company that employs students today, is, in fact, a restaurant. Suppose this inn works 16 hours a day, 6 days a week, that means 24 days a month. In such a case, it can be found that the situation in practice does not change in this range of hours provided by the first indent of paragraph 5 of this Article. Suppose that this company does not have any regular employees, but to this day it has hired students to provide at least one waiter for those 16 hours, and these were, as a rule, two changes. We can see that the calculation is 384 hours that it took to make this cafe open today. And with the new system, it's going to be a little less, I think, 360 hours. Well, in these cases, the situation does not change. Let me touch the unemployed again. I think that the important experience that we have before us is actually the experience that has been introduced by broader reforms in 2004 in the Federal Republic of Germany. You will recall that at that time these reforms have triggered a broad political movement in Germany. And it is certainly difficult to be 100% sure that we are making optimal solutions. However, I think that in the Small Work Act we have properly installed safeguards that will prevent abuse and, above all, allow the State to react quickly to the effects, as the Small Work Act will in fact show. In this respect, in particular because of the nature of the sixth paragraph of this Article, I cannot support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u81	Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u82	Good-bye to all of you! The dilemma raised by this article is the dilemma of restricting the small work law, which, in fact, is extremely important for the purpose of this law, we could say what is crucial, since the effect of the law itself depends on these restrictions. The dilemmas that lie ahead of us today have in some way been very well taken by the Minister in his last words, who, if I sum it up, said very nicely, in making this law, we were led primarily by good intentions, only "good intentions lead to hell", says one old wisdom. In this case, it is because of the way this law was prepared. As a result, we now face these dilemmas about limitations, such as those and others, of which each has good and bad qualities. And now we're in an absurd situation. In fact, the Government, by disrupting the social dialogue of those directly affected by the small work, has caused a continuation if I paraphrase Klausevica, social dialogue with other means here before Parliament. Therefore, it has not been possible to find common solutions, coordinated solutions in the context of social dialogue before. Whether it was possible to survive with little work, said the minister and then immediately answered, no. I believe so. But trade unions warn - just on the issue of these restrictions is a double issue - that the abuse of this law can occur by employers, owners, managers. Personally, I think that this amendment is better than the basic text, but on the other hand, I must say that I am in a great dilemma, because I firmly believe that the union warning is also justified. And the government should have resolved these dilemmas earlier in the context of social dialogue, but they are not because it has gone a long way. And that's why the good intentions of the government are now "pressed like a path to hell". And that trade unions are right when they point out that abuse can take place right on the issue of the limitations that this article touches on in a small part, to illustrate with a very simple example which does not appear to be connected, but very nicely reflects the mentality of the work of employers, managers, supervisors, all those which are usually shown as, I don't know, the quality of the transition of the Slovenian economy. In Gorenjska we are currently facing a disaster called the fall of Mercury. It can carry hundreds behind it, and it will, according to all the records, draw hundreds of millions of euros in losses, a disaster for employees, for their families, and for all those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs associated with it. And the President of the Mercury Supervisors is now running for office in Kranj and is being sold as a successful economist when he is personally, objectively and subjectively responsible for the occurrence of such a disaster. And if that's the mentality of this circle of people, then it's clear that abuse can occur. And now how do you draw a line here? The only way I think would be productive for society would be if this issue were resolved earlier. For if we open the limits as this article opens them, then there may be more abuse. However, if we do not open them and the basic text remains, it is to some extent lifeless, even as the minister himself acknowledged and you also recognize some of the opposition. For this reason, it is a teaching which is here alone, that it is probably better at a given time to implement the law but to go into a smaller limitation, but, on the other hand, in no case can the Government avoid the responsibility that these things have not been regulated in the context of social dialogue before. More than that, she's deliberately demolished it. No one will convince me that the events before Parliament were merely random, because of all the gentlemen from the transition left who encouraged the revolutionary groups that were here. We have already talked about this very much in Parliament, and I do not believe that a hint has come from somewhere very close to government species. Because this has brought down social dialogue for this group of people, which we are now primarily deciding here in the framework of small work. They can have all the arguments or no arguments, but it doesn't matter at all now, because whatever they say from now on, everyone will ask them what you did before the Slovenian Parliament, and I just hope that everyone in Slovenian trade unions understands the lesson of this story, which is also facing the collapse of social dialogue right now. And that he taught how any authority could abuse such a legitimate protest to provoke violence and thereby bring an end to social dialogue and dishonor those who have simply made some of their legitimate demands, which some authorities were not close. It can be that power is also within the framework of the Small Work Act when it wants to implement some of its solutions at all costs, as this government obviously wants to do, even with regard to the issue ahead of us. However, the path, which in this case is the only acceptable, social dialogue, is not machiavellistic, that "the goal is to devote the means". The path this government has chosen is wrong. Therefore, any decision we make now within these limits, I am afraid that we will fix it sooner or later. Because these are things that should have been set up earlier. All those who have had much to say about social dialogue in the past years should now raise their voices, because such things are not offered to Members and Members and then they turn around, if that is what Parliament has decided. Parliament plays a role when it can weigh different values. However, Parliament is not in the role of being able to implement or replace all that should have been done earlier by the government in the context of social dialogue. These restrictions are a reliable subject of social dialogue. Whatever we do today, we will not give the government a commitment in order for social dialogue to be deliberately disrupted. On this issue, as well as on many others facing this Parliament, the opposite remains the responsibility of the Government and the coalition as a whole, whatever the decision may be.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u83	Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you very much. It's about social dialogue. It was big. It was a great deal, but social dialogue does not always lead to reconciliation of interests and solutions. When we talk within the framework of the Economic and Social Council and its working groups – working groups resolve conflicts until they can be coordinated and then write the minutes, these and these issues remain interestingly open. Then this question is repeated in the Economic and Social Council and, of course, it is the responsibility of the proposer and the Government to submit a solution. And this is a normal situation where the social partners fail to agree on a solution that is obviously very interestingly difficult. And this one's obviously one of those. Thus, of course, it is necessary to understand the situation also in the context of the responsibility the Government has to bring a certain process to an end to resolve a problem, even though there has been no consensus between the social partners. By the way, students and I have been communicating and communicating very well in preparing this version of the law on an informal level and many of their proposals are embedded in it. The question of the transitional period or period of application was raised. In order not to be abused, an information system must be put in place in order to enable us to then manage the process of mediating this work, to control the implementation of this work. We will need to establish an appropriate information system. As long as we don't have a marriage, of course, we don't have a basis for going into public tender. When we go to the public tender, we need some time to prepare such an information system. We would have been able to prepare it a little earlier, but then it concerns the complications of the fiscal year, where according to the Ministry of Finance, a new regime needs to start with a new way of collecting contributions at the beginning of the year. As a result, this delay is also provided for in the law in 2012. Of course, this law does not regulate student status; we probably cannot interfere with this area. Otherwise, as it is said, this issue will be resolved before the law is in force because an appropriate law in the field of higher education is being drawn up. But the issue of abuse concerns what you see and anticipate. Here's an interesting situation, look, nobody minds that today comes a completely disorderly extramarital if you want to, using student work. Of course, when you make a marriage, violations are possible. This law provides for appropriate sanctions for this and provides for a control mechanism through the inspection service, through an information supported system that will be taken care of by labour intermediaries and the employment agency. These are instruments to avoid abuse. If you give priority to an unregulated area, to a grey economy, to a black work before we settle it with a law that has, because it is a law and is a norm, also potential abuses that we will have to monitor and eliminate, then between these two must be decided. We think that the institutionally regulated system, the legal framework for small work is much better than the current situation, when this work is done in very different unregulated ways, without rights for those who carry out this work.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u85	Mr. Mag. Grimes, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u86	Thank you. First of all, I must reject the instigation that anyone in these debates has supported the current regime at this time. Nobody did that, Mr. Secretary. Now that's something you'd probably want. Because you want to divert your attention from the fact that marriage is poorly prepared. Talking about how he's going to settle something later on about a college law that he's not in anywhere at the moment is just a bad trip. The fact is that at least some fundamental issues should be resolved in social dialogue, some fundamental dilemmas. They weren't here. There could be some small thing left for valuable, valuable decision-making in the National Assembly. Here, however, they rejected the solutions, with reasoned concerns, literally all partners and the government did not want to make any more efforts to bring about a close-up and pick up a shortcut. And that's true about the shortcut you accidentally confirmed yourself by giving such an extremely long deadline until the law was finally put into effect. And you've also just said, "it's so that then there won't be any abuse" that so much time is available. Well, please, I suppose it is clear to everyone among us that the deadline for enforcement is so long that the bad consequences of poorly prepared and uncoordinated social dialogue will be erased by a future government. That yearbook is certainly not an accident, because there are other elections in between.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Before giving the following word, I would like to ask that we focus on Article 4 and the two amendments. Suddenly, the debate has become quite broad and we are discussing the law as a whole. Please, Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u88	Mr. Vice President. I think you just made that decision before me, and I don't think that's right, even though you're right. And I think that if everyone's been discussing the whole marriage before me, I'm going to say something, too, and... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u89	I'm right and it's right to warn you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u90	But you're right, that's right, yes, Mr. Vice President. So today there is a lot of talk about social dialogue. Here, in my opinion, it is very important and should be stressed that nothing helps to talk about social dialogue and that social dialogue is ongoing if those who are in social dialogue who have to participate in social dialogue do not listen. If, on the one hand, all those other than the Ministry involved in social dialogue claim that this law is harmful and bad, then we ask ourselves where the problem is. And I am convinced that of all those representatives within the social dialogue, there is a problem in the ministry. Because those on the other side are looking at things from practice. But the Ministry is preparing things, and this law is also very theoretical. I think it's a very small part of where practice is taken into account. I am sure that the unions know what this is about, as well as all the other participants in the social dialogue. I would focus, however, on the document of the Proposal for a Small Work Arrangement in Slovenia. The material was prepared for the International Conference Little Work — Progress or Breakdown of Small Work? And it was said that this little work is not progress, it is a failure. This was on September 2nd in Ljubljana when they tried to answer some questions. How does the bill on small work define little work? "A small job is a temporary, occasional work or longer-term limited work of students and students, retired, unemployed and other active persons up to a maximum of 60 hours per month. The exception applies to students and students who, due to their study obligations, are allowed to do little work for several hours a month, but may not exceed the allowed amount of hours per calendar year, budgetary, to the annual amount of hours, amounting to 720 hours." This raises the next question. What, then, is the difference between part - time work and part - time work? It's not really supposed to be, but it's still kind of big. Short-term work offers all rights from a working relationship, but not a small job. Or, as stated in the bill itself, "a little work does not provide for other costs which burden the employment relationship, such as retirement, transport to work, summer leave" and so on. And all those who do little work, i.e. those who are employed in a small part, will not receive these ratings, so neither transport, nor retirement, nor annual leave. This is one thing that I think is very problematic, and I'm going to end up saying why. What are the proposed hourly restrictions on small work? In the case of an employer who does not have an employee or who employs at least one or more workers up to and including 10 workers, 360 hours of work may be carried out. So, for an employer who has no employee, 360 hours of small work can be done. In the case of an employer who employs more than 10 to 30 workers, 720 hours of small work may be carried out, in the case of an employer who employs more than 30 to 50 workers, 1080 hours of small work may be carried out, in the case of a employer who employs more than 50 to 100 workers, and in the case of an employer who employs more than 100 workers, 2880 hours of small work may be carried out. Therefore, the Ministry of Labour may, on the basis of the role of employer who employs more than 1,250 workers and after prior consultation with other social partners for a maximum of 3 months in the calendar year, determine a greater number of hours of small work than laid down in the previous paragraph of this Article, but not more than 5760 hours in the calendar month. Well, then there's a lot of questions when we talk on one side about limitations. Therefore, in this part of the restriction is not important, those which are enshrined in the law, but the Ministry can make certain decisions which I do not think are appropriate. The main dilemma at this point is whether this will prevent the chaining of small jobs, the lending of passengers to others, or whether it will prevent large jobs from being broken down into small jobs. According to the available data, we can claim that it certainly does not. When one small worker reaches the limit of hours, he will receive a travel guide under another name and continue his work. And one more thing. The employer who employs up to 10 workers will be able to employ six small workers as proposed. How many such employers are there in Slovenia? According to Umarja, 2010, 92.4% of companies in Slovenia are micro-companies, i.e. companies that employ up to 10 workers. On the other hand, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Work in the whole of the previous year identified 9 cases of passenger lending. As far as job-gathering is concerned. It's enough to look at Germany, which started a little work a while ago. Since 2000, the number of full-time and compulsory social insurance employees has decreased by 1.6 million. The share of small works in the total employment has nearly tripled since 1995. What are the profits of small workers? There is limited annual small-time earnings of €6,000. The lowest gross hourly rate is 4 euros. Of course, this raises the question of whether it is possible to survive with little work. In the light of all available data, only a negative response may be given. The maximum annual income of a small worker falls below EUR 6 000 535, an annual poverty risk threshold for a single-member household in 2008. In other words, little work is a pool of working poor. It is not surprising, therefore, that 71% of the small workers in Austria cannot survive with their income. What's gonna happen? There will be an Americanisation of the labour market. One of the workers will do a number of different little things to survive. In Austria, more than half of the small workers are doing more than one job. What are the rights arising from contributions to the social security of a small worker? As a period for determining the period of insurance for the acquisition of rights from compulsory pension and disability insurance, the carrying out of a small part-time period shall be considered as full-time work in accordance with the rules governing working relationships. Thus, the recalculated period of insurance shall be considered as part of the insurance period in proportion to the contributions paid for the case of age, disability and death. The question arising from the question is whether the income from the small part is considered to be a calculation of the pension base? The bill on small work is clear here. The remuneration for small work shall not be deemed to be a calculation of the pension age, irrespective of the contributions paid. What is the way out of a small part of a regular job? According to the drafter, the study on flexible forms of work in Germany shows that, at the same time as the increase in flexibility in employment in Germany from 2003 to 2008, the rate of unemployment has decreased and the level of activity has increased, suggesting the reactivation of inactive persons. Is that true? Is a little work like a jumping board for regular employment? In response, we can only offer a nickel form. Indeed, the experience of the German case of small work, as shown by the applicants of the Small Work Act, shows the following picture. Only 10% of low-employment workers succeed in moving to regular employment. Most of them are left in a small part or again out of work. It's over. What's the cost of the small part? From a small part, the employee's contributions to pension and disability insurance and health insurance will be paid and the employer is obliged to pay the contribution to insurance in case of injury to work and occupational diseases and small part benefits. Of the gross wage for small work, the corresponding contributions for pension and health insurance of 14,97 % will be paid. In addition, a contribution from a small part of the gross payment is paid in the case of injuries at work and occupational diseases of 0.53% and 14% of the benefits, which are mainly devoted to the financing of scholarships and the construction and maintenance of student homes. The total burden of small work will thus be 29.50%. But is little work as burdensome as other forms of work? The Small Work Bill makes it clear that small work is not as burdensome as other forms of work. The drafter of the Small Work Act himself admits this. Moreover, it sees this as a competitive advantage because it says that, I quote, "the advantage of small work compared to the labour ratio is still under lower burden, 8.7% lower burden with social insurance contributions, and greater flexibility of the travel system, nor does the work provide for other labour costs that burden work relationships such as retirement, transport to work, annual leave and so on". At the same time, the International Labour Organisation makes it clear in larger documents that the decline in social cash flows to the account of creating new jobs is extremely dangerous, which has a long-term negative impact on the sustainability of public social registers. So, Mr Minister, it is very clear from this that this small work law is indeed a theoretical story that has no logical connection to practice in our country. Even when we are talking about the flexibility of the labour market, yes, flexibility, yes, we all agree with that, but with the provision of high social security. Little work – by no means, no one here in Parliament can convince me that it provides high social security, does not convince me. And that's an extremely important argument. And I think that's how the minister and all this team that's been preparing this legislation should be aware of and reflect on what I've just said. If it is not yet, then unfortunately, again we come to the point where we can talk in the way that social dialogue is going on, on the one hand, the ministry, on the other hand, and everyone else who comes from practice. And then it is clear that there will come into the National Assembly such an unquality, extremely poor, poorly prepared legislation that will have long-term consequences for Slovenian people, long-term consequences, and for all those 120 or more unemployed will have consequences that they will remain in small part, will not receive a retirement, will not receive travel costs, will have no vacation and so on. Is that the goal of our parliament? Is this the goal of the current government in this acute situation? Do we have such an interest? Did this government actually lose its compass in this country with the coalition? Even Madam President, I'm sorry, I wouldn't laugh the way you're now laughing, cynically, because what you're doing is doing a lot of damage to a Slovenian man, a lot of damage. And you will make even more of those who will deal with this small work of social poverty, because half of the Slovenian man is already on the verge of survival. And I hope and believe that the coalition is so normal, so reasonable that it will consider before voting for such a bad, unquality and extremely unacceptable law as the Small Work Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I would remind you once again, please, that I have rightly warned you at the beginning of this debate, we are not discussing the whole of the law, we are not having a report on it now, but we are discussing Article 4 and the two amendments. Please, if we can stick to what I said. I hope it's right on my part, even with yours. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have to answer that, although it's not about Article 4. [[advertising from the hall]] That's exactly why I thought deeply about it when I listened to your performance, Mr Pojbič, even because you mention things that don't hold and even in the text that you read, they don't hold. If you've read the law, of course. And if you've read it, you've seen that you don't hold it like you said. What are the differences between these individual parts? The OECD, which is a reputable organisation, is well defined: small work takes from 0 to 14 hours a week, from 15 to 32 is work for a shorter time, and from 33 hours to 48 hours a full time, everything else is work over a normal weekly burden. And we have followed this, as far as time limits are concerned. When you talk about the issue of rights given by this law, you need to look at the comparative rights that they give in relation to the contributions paid, the proportionate part of the contributions paid, including the rights of certain and, of course, given the situation that similar work, such as today's small work, is the student work given today. Students have probably joined us at this time, and let's ask ourselves which of these rights is the student work. Does he give away his severance? Does he give you lunch? Does he give you a ride? He's not giving them away. A small job also does not give the number of pension periods a proportional contribution, as a small job will give them. This is an additional right and an additional right to take into account working experience in the recruitment after regular employment is an additional right. It does not give these rights to a student's work today. And once again, for the restrictions that are in law as regards the number of hours that an individual and an undertaking can carry out, the social partners themselves have taken and negotiated. It is true, however, that some subsequently expressed additional desires for smaller limits. I would like to stress this once again; little work is meant for people who already have fundamental social rights elsewhere. It's just a supplement to those rights they already have elsewhere. And if you're talking about a poor question that's supposed to generate a little bit of work, of course, it's inappropriate or an unfulfilled logic to the end. The student shall have the basic rights of the student, all the insurance required during this period under the second title. He also has a scholarship, a small job can complement his social economic position, material position and, of course, which is essential for the student, allowing him to contact the world of work, easier access then to work, because he has gained some experience because he may have already made some contact with employers and so on. Its material position, the social economic situation is not regulated through a small work on the ground, is complemented, upgraded. Pensioners also have pensions, so they can do some extra work through a little work and earn something extra. Above all, it is important that we allow them, through their remaining active activities, to gradually, as it is called, the activity of ageing, which is very important in terms of long-lived society, where more people are always maintaining their working skills and, of course, prolonging their life expectancy. It also has the unemployed fundamental rights, the social rights guaranteed by this title, to receive monetary compensation, and is included in active employment policy programmes. Of course, small work can also supplement its income and maintain contact with the world of work, unless it is provided through all active employment policy programmes. This is only added to what is already provided. And from this point of view, of course, it is difficult to talk about any of these people who are in these situations falling into the trap of poverty. Because it's not a permanent solution, because it's a temporary solution just like work itself. By the way, if you mention this issue, the latest data from the Swedish Institute for the Study of the Future, which also examines the level of risk of poverty in Europe, show that Slovenia is at risk of poverty in third place, immediately for the Czech Republic and the Netherlands. This data came from somewhere else, we didn't make it up, but you can look at it, and I told you specific references. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u93	Since I've seen the desire after the debate, I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. We are discussing two amendments to Article 4. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I think of course to discuss the amendment, in particular the amendment of the Human Party to Article 4, but I hope that Mr Pojbič is listening instead of warning him to behave more appropriately when he discusses and not to attack colleagues and colleagues in benches who do not have the opportunity to defend themselves. Now to the amendment itself, or both amendments. I would like to point out that, despite the fact that the unions have quite something, we can say that there are unwarranted comments. However, in this article, the question is indeed raised, particularly when we are talking about the first indent, whether it is an allowed quota or an authorised number of jobs per month in employers who have between 0 and 10 employees. Indeed, it is true that we allow some employers to work with little work so that they can work on a regular basis without employees. I'm not really sure this is the best possible solution. If not, it might be wise to limit these employers’ annual employment to a small number of jobs. I agree, of course, that the comparison of small work with today's student work is completely unfounded. To talk about a pensioner who will work through a small job who will find a complementary job not only to improve his material position, but also to be active even after retirement, to have an unemployed person work through a small job and not have the right to leave, etc., I have to say that sometimes such arguments remind me of Piko Nogavičko and why she went to school. Because she'd have a vacation, too. I don't think we can deal with such serious topics in such a banal way. And for this reason, of course, I think that we should really consider individual solutions that this law does not foresee. This is what sanctions will be applied to perpetrators of small work intermediaries. I am speaking, of course, of course, of the successors of the current services or agencies for the intervention of student and student work, if they violate the legal provisions and, above all, whether the restrictions on these small employers are not, I will say, too rich. Is it right that an employer who has ten employees can also employ four or six people through small work, 6 x 6 is 36, 360 hours a month? At the same time, one who does not have any employees can also employ six people through a small job. I think we're still opening the door too much here, and it might be good for the Ministry to consider in the third reading, or the Minister, that maybe some of the restrictions might only be a little tighter. Or alternatively use a combination of monthly and then limited quotas for the whole year. However, I agree with the warning that for those employers who have over a thousand employees, of course they do not have a three-month limit, but that they should be able to employ workers over the course of the year after the monthly quota, so that, of course, it is necessary to consult with the competent authorities every time and to obtain the end-of-the-year consent of the social partners, as set out in the law and as the Minister has said. I hope that this law will finally put an end to the abuse in the field of student and student work. Here present representatives of the Student Organization on the balcony have heard my thoughts on this for the last time. The fact is that at present in Slovenia a whole number of employers do not even have any employee working through a regular working relationship, but they abuse the student work to employ completely lawless people who are not students, but only borrow the travels of individual relatives, friends or perhaps even paying travel through various intermediations of the student work. I specifically said that I know about the employer who has ten people employed through student travel and these people are not students. They don't have the right to leave, they don't have the right to a hospital, they don't have the right to a pension, they don't have any of what we've heard before. I say that this is a simple abuse of an institution that was meant to be, and I will repeat it for good purposes, but these are good intentions before 20, not 20 years ago, but about 16 years ago led to the door or through the door of hell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u95	Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues and others present! To begin with, I would just say that if a colleague of Pecan's knew about such a case, then she would probably be obliged to notify the competent authorities, so that they could sanction these things so that the Labour Inspectorate would be more effective than it was in the previous year when he discovered nine such abuses, then this year it would be more successful because only a colleague knows about ten such violations and misused travel agents. The Article 4 we are talking about and the restrictions it requires should be a solution so that such abuse is no longer taking place and the law should therefore be needed. I'm saying that maybe it's true. However, I argue that these abuses could also be solved in a different way, or have already gotten rid of some of them by themselves because of the economic situation. As we all know, the scale of the small part has fallen, I will not be going into the correct grades now, because I don't really know them. I submit that the purpose of this small work law is much greater than it would have been in the light of the OECD requirements, which was also mentioned here, and some comparability and competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. He said a little more about the broader context of the changes, including this change and the regulation of small work. He spoke in particular about the flexibility of the labour market, and I say that there are particularly serious, harmful other consequences of this small work law, which regulate a completely different relationship, which, of course, by reason of what has been stated, in short, the regulation of the labour market, have absolutely nothing. But you're concerned with other articles and I'll talk about them later, Mr. Vice President. To stay with the darkness that's here. With other measures and minor amendments to existing legislation, I would argue that all that has already been said would be corrected. I also think that the current restrictions that are in here are still a consequence and, in fact, the whole law is based on one domain of eight hours of work, eight hours of rest, eight hours of leisure, which is for today's labour market, in situations such as the global economy, and part of it is also a Slovenian economy, it is, in fact, illusory to say, in a post-modern, post-industrial society, in fact, conservative, not perhaps more advanced than it was 50, 60 years ago when this relationship was established. And since the law is based on such assumptions, I think it is inappropriate for modern times. And these restrictions may therefore be inappropriate for many people who, in practice, have to live in this labour market and actually survive it by doing business. That's why I believe the Chamber of Commerce called. Modern generations need to apply for different forms of work, because they will receive and receive only such work. You know, too, that in the framework of the active employment policy that your ministry is leading, it is quite a job for independent entrepreneurs, because young people have decided to accept the support that the ministry offers and to organise their own work. Once they can both guess whether these young independent entrepreneurs actually work eight hours, eight hours of rest, and eight hours of leisure time. Of course not! And most of the new jobs offered on the market today are different, as are those on which the assumption, which is likely to be summarised by the unions, is based, at least so far. Perhaps only this debate on small work has opened their eyes to look at the labour market differently, and again it is not so different that these basic assumptions change in any way. That is also why the social dialogue with them, I think, is actually unnecessary for the modern labour market because it is not justified.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u97	Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. So, Article 4, which speaks of the limitations of small work, has ten paragraphs. The two amendments tabled in this Article relate to paragraphs 5 and 6. Of course, in order to understand the amendment to paragraph 5 and 6, it is necessary to understand the text of this whole article, because the text of this article actually reflects the purposes and objectives of this law which speak about it, namely, priority that this law regulates informal, occasional, temporary work in a uniform way in a single law and that it includes these categories of people, i.e. students and students, unemployed persons and pensioners. Although Mr Minister has explained the status of these groups well, it is important to reiterate that we hear many times in public and, of course, today, by opposition Members, it has been said that, of course, this is about lowering the social standard of these people. The solutions to this law go in a different direction, so these are groups of people who already have their status as regulated social rights under their status. And that integration into small jobs enables them to improve their social status so that, within a certain framework, they can make extra money in carrying out these opportunities and thus deserve to improve their social status. And when we talk about this article, it is, of course, possible to follow these objectives, which are written here. If they were correct, it should also be said today that since the initial texts of this Law, Article 4 has undergone substantial changes or many changes based on dialogue between different stakeholders. If you look at it, the scope of this work is initially considered to be a monthly limit of 60 hours, and, of course, immediately thereafter it adapts to the status of students, who, depending on their nature of the study process, are not able to limit themselves to such an extent monthlyly, but here flexibly, according to their study obligation, depending on the occasional work, they are also distributed in the mass of the annual hours to a greater amount of hours when they are reduced or reduced student obligations. And at the same time, of course also on behalf of the LDS, we have clearly and loudly always said that this law must be linked to the Act on Scholarships, because the priority task of the student should be to study, properly study and conclude the study within a reasonable period of time. No one who wants to study in Slovenia and has the potential to do so can therefore be excluded if his status does not allow him to be involved in the study process. And the law on scholarships is one of the key co-existences that must be fulfilled before the Small Work Act comes into force. And here is also one of the reasons we needed in the coalition for when this law should enter into force until we also realize this necessary and necessary condition in the exercise of small work. On the one hand, when we talked about how much the limit should be for those involved in small work, on the other hand, we also set a limit on how much they should be included in small work – of course, when we speak, with the next goal, on flexibility of work and prevention of work on the black, so-called grey economy. And the amendments that go in this direction today, especially with regard to those employers who have an extremely large number of employees, i.e. those who have more than 1,250 workers, seem to us a reasonable limit, but not in the way proposed by the Slovenian People's Party Members, that in some proportion we increase flexibility in small employers now to the same proportions included and given the number of employees also in large employers, but that we are not deaf to concerns, such as trade chambers. Now, with the amendment of the coalition, the scope envisaged in paragraph 5 – that is, those who would have an expressed need for this increased volume due to the seasonal nature of work, due to certain circumstances, would be obliged to submit this request to the Ministry of Labour, which will assess, in the light of dialogue with the social partners, whether there are actual reasons for adding an additional quota of those hours. Of course, there is a ceiling of 5,760 hours. The amendment of the coalition here excludes only a period of three months, within which this increased scope could exist, for the whole calendar year. This amendment is much closer to having the next goal not to allow the circle and the entanglement in the framework of small work for those involved in small work, but to being stimulated that those with a large number of employees include additional work in the way of regular employment. Therefore, from my point of view, the amendment of the coalition is acceptable and is unacceptable to the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. In doing so, it is still necessary to say clearly and loudly, including what has been criticised, about the fear of being trapped in a small job. This fear exists, but it is necessary to know that we also have the ninth paragraph in this article, which is extremely important for a specific programme under the active employment policy to be developed on the basis of levies through small work, with the aim of moving as quickly as possible from small work to regular employment. We forget this element and it is also crucial for the content of this law as an understanding of the whole. I agree that there can be a lot of fear at this time about the implementation of this law, so it is also necessary to say in this article that the law defines a professional group that will closely monitor the consequences of the enforcement of this law, which is extremely important. The anomalies that would happen will then have to be removed immediately. And the amendment that goes in this direction at today’s second reading later will be able to talk more about it. It seems to me that in this debate this article is not about supporting an amendment that would significantly extend the scope of the rights to engage in small work to the very significant extent of employees in a certain company, but, above all, the restriction is that they should be included in regular employment if such a large volume of small work needs also exist. I will therefore support the amendment of the coalition groups, not the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u99	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The proposal for a small work law is mainly based on market flexibility. The law will also significantly reduce black work, which is also one of the objectives of the proposed law, which will also allow longer-term limited work of students, students, pensioners, unemployed persons and other inactive persons for a maximum of 60 hours a month. There is a question of the difference between small work and part-time work. In particular, the difference is detected only in the part where the law refers to rights arising from a working relationship. Of course, there is also a dilemma about the possibility of breaking up large jobs into small jobs and lending passengers under another name, especially when an individual reaches the limit of hours, only so that he can continue his work. The employer who employs up to 10 workers will be able to employ six small workers, and in Slovenia there are 92.4%. In view of the profit figures that say that the gross hourly item is EUR 4 and the annual earnings are up to EUR 6 000, we can ask ourselves about the possibility of small-time survival. The gross salaries of all employees in Slovenia at the annual level are around €17 billion, while all regular and extraordinary students and students working through student service earned only about €300 million in the year. The student and student benefits are thus about half lower than the cost of transport to work and about 30 times lower than the assessment of the scope of the grey economy, which is only 2% of the total Slovenian market. However, students are highly competitive in the market with their work, as their average remuneration for businesses represents only around 55% of the costs of an average paid worker. Trade unions have concerns that unfair competition has been strengthened, and the pressure of socially disadvantaged people has also been exploited. They also point to the abuse of the law by employers who prefer to work over a small job rather than for a certain period of time, and this is a story that says that the countries that already have it face just the growth of small work. The fact is that we need a small work law, so it would be right for all participants to take time in the process and to prepare a law that will be acceptable to all - both for students and for employers and also for trade unions. Like I said, marriage is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u101	Who else wants to discuss the amendments to Article 4? Ma'am mag. Spending. Anyone else? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will define myself up to the two amendments tabled in Article 4. Although the amendment of the People's Party is aimed at tightening the size conditions for employers, I am particularly disturbed by the fact that the jump is relatively high and these intermediate relationships between some and others are too high. Indeed, in paragraph 6, it retains what I am actually defending and I think it should remain, and this is also my position on the proposal of the amendment of coalition parties in order to remain a stated limit, so that little work can be done in a concerted manner only within three months. Here I have a slightly different view from my colleague Germić, because if we speak from the point of view of seasonal work, as is now the case in Article 6, these three months are not tied to the season. It can be winter, it can be summer, spring, autumn, anytime, but the nature of the seasonal work fits these three months. Even when I went on my own to talk about how small work could be implemented in a large economic entity in some economic society, I am talking about Impel in Slovenia Bistrica, I was just reminded that for employers' views it is necessary to maintain this opportunity for them to be able to work more closely during vacations and that the quota is then higher. As it is now written in the existing, supplemented Proposal for a Small Work Act, I think this solution is quite appropriate because protection is twofold. It is a quota for an individual, it is said, for the person who works, and because we have made this exception for students to be able to do more than 60 hours a month, for those who would like to do little work only as part of a holiday, as well as for employers, this is an acceptable solution. I am aware that with such restrictions as are written here, we cannot prevent possible abuses or incursions, especially in that group without employees up to 10 employees, but it seems to me that these potential abuses with certain quotas are less. Above all, I find it surprising that those who advocate only amendments to the Student Work Act do not see the situation of the students now. Since I see young people on the balcony, I would advise them that they might be with their colleagues, who are 30 years old, who have been doing student work, to discuss a little what their experience with student work is, when they are 30 years old, they do not have a single year's work due to the fact that they have only been working with guides. Therefore, it seems to me that it is necessary to take into account the different experiences and to see the pitfalls of the student work and the great abuses that have occurred not only to those who have worked through student travel but to those who have worked through student travel for a long time since they were students or never were students, but to those who have been students and have extended their student status in various ways. Therefore, it seems to me that there is little work to do with these restrictions, as has been written down, but a good path with that additional safeguard, so that the monitoring of the small part will also be implemented in a way that the findings of this monitoring will be amended in the law and will, however, help to improve the law. I defend the law myself because it is always necessary to stress – I do not know how many times this has to be stressed – little work is a complement to what an individual already has in view of his or her status as a student, pensioner or unemployed person who is registered at the Employment Institute. I would like to supplement only the information provided by Mr Minister on the third place of those who live below the poverty line. Let us recall that the largest number of people under the poverty threshold lived in 2008. We know how to calculate this data. But the fact that we have managed to maintain this level in the two crisis years tells us what has been done within the Ministry of Labour, the family and social affairs and the disabled, that the social status of the most vulnerable groups has not deteriorated so much that things or situations are frightening. 4. Of course, Article 4 cannot answer those questions raised by some, particularly those who do not support the Small Work Act. I do not understand that it is now an obvious time for this law to enter into force, but if it is precisely from the point of view of the Student Organisation that a small work law should not enter into force before a new scholarship policy has been established. What seemed virtually impossible to overcome in all these strong debates under the Small Work Act is that we have to deal with different social groups, with different interests. What bothered me the most was that at times one social group tried to resolve or decide on behalf of another social group. I am thinking, of course, of those experiments that have talked about whether this small work law applies to pensioners but not to the student, or whether it should apply to pensioners, not to unemployed workers, etc. As I say, I will certainly not support the amendment of the People's Party to Article 4, but I will not support the coalition. I'm going to stay here because I think it's good to keep the security that has been incorporated into the amended Small Work Act so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u103	I find that no one wants to discuss Article 4. About Article 4? Here you go, Mr. Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u104	I'm returning to the debate. So the more I listen, the more skeptical I am and, unfortunately, today when we vote, we won't press the button for this law. I will not repeat what I have already done in the first debate: on the principle level everything is good and beautiful, on the one hand we restrict, limit the student work, on the other hand we open the door to the pensioners, even the unemployed. One could say that it is right that all categories can to some extent be included in the work process, which is positive. The worst thing is to sit at home and look out the window. That's right. However, whether a little work will give rise to regular employment, I am increasingly convinced about this. And that's why I've been on this stage for almost 20 years, either in the union, in society, in civil society, but it's not possible to control it. I also understand the Minister's argument to some extent. All that has so far been in some sense illegal, black, will now come within some legal framework. But now there's this amp. In the marriage framework, so we're going to get some kind of new hybrid again, I'd say a combination. legal and black work. What do I mean? Like I said, control won't be possible. With these inspectors, even if they were tripled, they will not be able to control all these economic operators. Someone's gonna get a travel pass where they'll write the scope of work within the legal framework. They're sanctions for excess. I think that employers will stick to these frameworks well, and they won't go too far unless they make a mistake. However, payers who have the opportunity to have cash in their possession will make a lot of use of these handicrafts, hire someone for two or three hours, and they will do 20 or 30, no one will know how much of this is being hidden. We're going to legalize some form of work, an occasional, temporary one, which will also have a glued attachment called a black job at the time of legal work. And that's what I'm truly afraid of. Not because I'm standing up to my colleagues from a coalition for some kind of opportunism or for some other reason, but because I know things too well. One year after the entry into force of the law, the unions will give their opinion as well as those who will be on the committee; and they will say what I say today, and I will print out this magnetogram that things are born to happen. Then it will take a few years again for this to come to the government, to find that something needs to be fixed. Let's think about it a little bit, even though I think it's too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u105	I conclude the debate on Article 4 and the amendments to Article 4. I am putting to the debate Article 32 and the amendment of the SD, LDS, Zares and DeSUS groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? Check-in is on. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you so much for your words, chairman, and a nice greeting once again. Article 32, which came from the second hearing on the Committee, actually seems to me a disgrace. I am very glad that I did not participate in the committee at the time, because it is necessary for the minds of one mind to lose the other mind. Otherwise, I can also understand the emotional context in which such amendments - and this was the amendment of the committee, if I am not mistaken - arise, but I cannot understand that this is happening in the National Assembly, where people should take care of the legality and respect certain laws already in force in this country. The amendment that we now have improves what has occurred on the Committee, but what has occurred on the Committee is the following: the Commission, which is supposed to lead and the public tender, the selection of offers to finance various activities, which can also be financed from this small work concession, is based on the current proposal, if we do not follow the amendment, which consists of three representatives of the student councils of universities in the Republic of Slovenia. It is likely with the expectation that this will mean that students who have now been the exclusive recipients of these funds will be able to participate through their companies in monitoring and distribution and so on. However, it is clear in this country who is the representative representative of the students, this is the Student Organisation of Slovenia. I don't think it's really a Member and a Member who doesn't know it or know it, but because of the unloving events – which I can't blame, in part, this leadership of a representative if you want, a union and a eligible partner in this social dialogue for this situation. However, it is still valid as stated in the law; and it states that the Student Organisation of Slovenia is a representative representative of students, which must be taken into account in all matters concerning them. The Small Work Act is definitely one of those things; the commission to which we will appoint these people is definitely one such thing, and I do not understand how such a lapsus can be sneaked up and that, later on, this amendment – which I am sorry that the leader of my delegation has also signed — is trying to fix and still this error is being preserved. The university student councils are an internal body of universities that are autonomous. While we were adopting legislation in the field of higher education, when we were adopting a new body to control the quality of education — to whom did we give the word in this world? Did we give it to representatives of university student councils who, by some logic, might even say something about programs? No! No! We have given, as the law runs, representatives of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. And that's how it's supposed to be! With such a provision as is now in this Article or with that decision being amended, I fear that such a solution is not legal. Some others also point to the fact that in the case of the composition of this committee, it was an irrational but emotionally conditional decision, for some, in fact a covert witch hunt, which is likely to be in line with the spirit of time, which, of course, has not been the case since the student demonstrations before Parliament and will not be for long, if ever, as it has been so far. This committee is supposed to take part in what is normal if the Youth Office, which is part of the Ministry of Education, is another representative of the Ministry of Education and Sport, although I do not know why, perhaps it is wise here, but it will be in the field of sport, because I suppose projects can do so as well. Thank God, in the end, the representative of the Ministry of Culture, who has only repeatedly warned that there are traps in the Small Work Act as well. The Ministry of Culture is only well aware that the budget available to it is unable to co-finance a number of cultural organisation programmes across Slovenia, which have been co-financed by the concessional work so far, and that it can continue to be different in this area from now on, and that a good part of civil society will be put out and certain projects and programmes will not work anymore because the way of sharing will be different. In the end, money will probably not be allocated as it has been allocated so far and, in fact, the Ministry of Culture has already seen good practice after 20 years. It is not on this committee, if I am reading correctly, perhaps a representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Many of the projects led by the Slovenian Student Organisation so far have also been of a social nature and might also belong in. It is normal for him to be a representative of the Diagnostic Organization of Slovenia, but it was not normal, at least on the committee, not to be an inside representative of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. That's how I read what came from the committee, and I think the president of the Youth Sub-Committee is wrong here. I guess he didn't do much to help me clear up these things in public debate, regardless of the role that we have given him in the Committee on Youth, Education and Sport. That's why I don't think it's time for this debate, but it was months ago, and it wasn't happening. And I don't mean to argue here. I don't think this solution has been premeditated enough yet. I don't know if this can be solved in the third reading. But I'm sure, my colleague Germič said that we have another commission, which I'm going to call when it's time to do this, but that there was some way that we could do what we did 40 years ago, in the early 1970s, it wasn't the luckiest. Then, let me remind you of those who still know this, there was an attempt in the Union of Socialist Youth of Slovenia to drown the student relationship and it went on for a while. Today history repeats itself, for those colleagues and colleagues who are Marxistically more educated than I am, it will probably not be hard to remember that history repeats itself: for the first time it happens as a tragedy, and for the second time it happens as a farce. Well, it's happening like a farce today. Perhaps, however, in memory of the times when the delegate system had the advantage of representing interests over any more direct systems. I must say that today the Student Organisation of Slovenia, whatever we think of it, has a system of direct elections, whatever they are. Nothing is much different than the ones we're elected to. For example, the Youth Council of Slovenia has a delegation system, the young political parties are active here and in fact one already controls, so I will say, this body according to the delegation system, which may have been practiced by the client's older colleagues. I'll read you a poem, bearing the title of Seven hundred leather bags. I'm sure Yuri will remember it, and someone else who's ever listened to a punk. "Seven hundred leather bags will save you from any danger. Two million red black posters will tell us how hard it used to be. One million red flags will tell us it's a holiday. Seven hundred leather bags well knows what the nation wants. Seven hundred leather bags well know what is positive and what is unacceptable. Seven hundred leather purses are our eyes, so it is necessary to protect these seven hundred leather bags." It's a great band that had the name Children of Socialism. I think after 40 years of experience, we're back where we were in the early '70s. All those who fought for a better tomorrow, I hope that you will also today and that you will be, as you would then vote, even today when you decide on this law. I would not like to see this law after the circuit, not after the law that really concerns students, in short, the law on the student community, but after this circuit in some way destroy the autonomous organisation of students, which, as it were said, failed 40 years ago, and I hope that it will not, too today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u107	I'm reopening the application. Mrs. Andreja Crnak Mglich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Well, that's what happens if we dig in the trenches and don't cooperate when we have to cooperate. The fact is, the relevant representatives of the interest groups rejected the Small Work Act but the Priories rejected it, and the law was created as it was. The question of the tendering commission also opened up on the committee itself. In agreement with those who participated in the meeting, it was found that the Commission’s record or composition was totally inappropriate. Therefore, an amendment was opened to amend the composition of the Commission and to adapt it to the maximum extent possible for those participating in the meeting. This amendment is essentially a compromise for those who created the law at the moment the amendments were adopted. Thus, I do not accept Mr Rože's statement, and I believe that the representatives of students from student organisations were also present, including the representative of the State Council, and that we have drafted these amendments in accordance with their suggestions and comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u109	Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. A key part of Article 32 of the Small Work Act is to form one commission within the Ministry of Education, where the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth worked, which will ensure appropriate tendering conditions, so that funds raised within 2% of the title of student and student work, where not only students, but also students, of course. I must say that a key point on the committee came to the ears of the members of the committee, as it was previously reported that this was not the case, so we saw what was going on, and that three representatives of the student councils were recorded in the amendment, which I agree, are not representative of the student body in the Republic of Slovenia, this is the Student Organisation of Slovenia. Three representatives of the Student Organisation of Slovenia were included in the previous proposal, which means that, according to the five-member committee, the majority would play a role in this committee. This, in my opinion, is wrong again, because no matter what anyone thought about the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth, the Youth Council, etc., it is necessary to know that there are also young people working in these organisations who are doing student work or student work, and they may also have the right to decide where the financial resources collected from that title will go. Part of the funding is therefore taken away from the Student Organisation of Slovenia for the purposes of a public invitation to tender, which will allow youth organisations, including the Student Organisation, to apply for this invitation to tender with a slightly more transparent operation, with certain projects and no one is saying that this money cannot be obtained by the Student Organisation, but even less that it will have any effect on the autonomy of the Student Organisation. This is ballast, this is not the truth, because the student organisation within the means remaining, and within this call for proposals, it can work primarily smoothly forward. I would just like to say that this has been pointed out on the Committee and that we have decided to adopt this amendment on the Committee to leave the article open so that we can amend this article in order to make it better. As a result, it was suggested that this is a seven-member commission involving one representative of the student councils of universities in the Republic of Slovenia, one representative of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, one representative of the Diagiene Organization of Slovenia, one representative of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth, one representative of the Youth Council of Slovenia, one representative of the Ministry of Education and one representative of the Ministry of Culture. It's a seven-member committee, pretty divided up, so I think some anomalies, irregularities, influences, lobbying in this case are hard to come by or not at all. This was the objective of the committee, on which some were also absent when this was discussed. Please do not say that many of us did not seek dialogue when it was necessary. If any of us have called on all actors on legal time to submit their proposals for improvements to the Small Work Act. And especially to make this clear to some who are also members of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, because we may not know what the situation was like when we contacted certain student organisations to comment on the Small Work Act. We have also taken into account some of the proposals concerning non-governmental organisations that will have a double quota for the employment of people through small work, taking into account the transitional period for those students who graduate from high school, staying in a hole until they begin to study in college – they will also be able to work – and this was the proposal of the Student Organisation. Thus, some things have been taken into account, but in those segments where there were no proposals, except that the law was totally rejected, but we could not pursue such dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u111	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Rogers, you're the only one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, we had an amendment here yesterday that talked about the composition of the world of RTV Slovenia. The SDS has proposed that representatives of religious communities also receive their candidate. The reason why this was not possible was because the method of choice was not determined. Likewise, I say that this proposed dictatorship, which was later re-amended – and the amendment was amended because the lecture of the "student organization of the university" instead of Slovenia was, of course, an indication of complete ignorance and also some lack of interest in the topic by the signed leaders of the coalition groups here. In short, who and how we will appoint one representative of the student councils of universities in the Republic of Slovenia is not defined by this law, is unknown. And there's something else. In addition to universities there are independent higher education institutions in Slovenia, which also have their student councils. These students will not have this right to delegate. In the student organisation of Slovenia, these things are democratically regulated. All higher education institutions, all student organisations are its members, and that is why it is representative, and the representatives of the university's student councils are their internal bodies. Such a provision cannot go into law. I appeal to qualified applicants who, in the third reading, may still make a smart amendment to do so, and I also propose that consideration be given to whether, in addition to the representative of the Ministry of Education and Sport and the Ministry of Culture, it is possible to have a representative of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, or perhaps of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, in view of the projects which can be financed from this money. At the same time, of course, it is necessary to reconsider whether balance with government and non-governmental representatives is appropriate or whether 7, 8, 9 or how many members are appropriate. In short, until then, if possible, it will be settled. However, I do not think that, as this has now come to the attention of the National Assembly for a second reading, it is really well prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u113	Mrs Anja Kopač Mrak, State Secretary, also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u114	Hello! Thank you for your word. Perhaps I would say in this debate that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly was not the same opinion as you, that the matter is not systemic or legally valid. Therefore, it also gave a positive opinion on the law at second reading, or amendments that were legislative or nomotechnic in nature were adopted on the committee itself. From this point of view, it is unlikely that this observation will endure. However, there is one interesting thing in this debate about Article 32. If we think about how the original proposal was made and where the money distributor actually played the role of bringing someone within government services and then sharing money, the key role of which is to share money with youth organisations and student organisations, particularly those good projects that students and students have to undertake to be dedicated to students and students. And on the basis of all these, including in cooperation with representatives of student organisations, student councils, in the debate on this law in many public places, the article's proposal has been amended to the fullest extent possible, taking into account all those existing students and students who have something to say about young people today. And you're right, it's probably not just the Student Organization of Slovenia. He has a representative here, but I also believe that there is no problem here now, as if there are representatives of youth councils, student councils and the Student Organisation of Slovenia in conflict. I believe that it is in their common interest for all of them to give programmes and projects that are good and are intended for young people and students, and that through the Youth Office – not as you have rightly determined – the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which is repeatedly recognised as the culprit of this law, will have the opportunity for representatives to agree on a balanced basis between them, which projects, which will be the tender documents, what the call for proposals will look like and which projects will be selected. This includes those organisations that speak about young people and young people in Slovenia today, but it is not just one organisation. And we have probably come to talk only about the Student Organisation in Slovenia as the only competent, by law given representatives to speak about the interests of students and young people in this country. I think that everyone whose mission is to work for young people and students will then be able to work together, prepare tender documents and choose projects that will be dedicated to what their key tasks are and what they are set up to do. And now in this law they will actually have the opportunity to demonstrate the possibility of mutual constructive cooperation, with the aim of providing good projects, money to target where young people in the Republic of Slovenia need it most. There have been a number of discussions on how to put together a committee alone, and I think that the proposal of the coalition at this time is such that it includes all those who have, young people, in Slovenia to say that they are in and have the opportunity to vote. But there will be a need for cooperation. Yes, different interests will need to be addressed and agreed, but not that only one organisation, on behalf of all students and students in this country, can speak and represent their interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u115	Anybody else want to discuss Article 32? Check-in is on. Mr. Vito Rozej, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u116	Thank you very much. It is clear who is the representative of this or that age group in this country, but it is also clear that there are many other works besides these groups. It is normal for young people to represent a youth council, it is normal for them to represent a student student's organisation and it is normal for students to represent a student's organisation, according to the laws. The university student councils have completely different roles and tasks and are not primarily involved, at least they should not; they are involved in university study processes and have been established and have universities. And if universities want to do something else with them, then let the universities co-finance them, but it's not an autonomous student organization, it's part of an autonomous organization called the University. That's the thing, and that's what this is about, and I believe that you know this marriage division, too, and I'm saying that I'm right here. If legal work didn't take time, it's not my problem, I did. However, if things are going to go as well as you say they will negotiate in a balanced manner on the allocation of funds, then we will soon be where we are now sharing the resources of the disabled organisations, which you yourselves know to be wrong, how someone has a balanced conversation with whom and why and who has the power and influence here to "come through" his projects, and who doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u117	Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u118	I would like to point out that an amendment has been tabled, referring to the fact that a representative of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, and not a student organisation of the University, was involved in the tendering committee, as was mistakenly written in the youth. In the basic dilemma with Vito, of course, I can agree that student organisations are those who, according to the law on the student community, represent a representative association of students in Slovenia, as well as student councils have, I will say, their specific role in co-management of the university, especially within the study process. In this context, they are somehow forced outside this amendment, because I do not think that their role is what the role of youth, student and student associations is. However, let me draw attention to the other part, and this is a question of the allocation of funds. After 2014, students' organisations will have a 50 % concession fee of this 4 %, while the difference will go to tender. I would like to draw attention to the fact that all student organisations today have a large part of their funding to finance research activities, which is why they are doing research activities carried out by non-governmental organisations as a rule. On the inside, I am asked whether this will undoubtedly be useful and welcome to the role of these students' organisations, given that there will now be an invitation to tender, which will be an opportunity to finance such activities through a call for proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u119	I can say that I am concluding the debate on Article 32 and I am putting to the debate Article 41 and the amendment of the SD, LDS, Zares and DeSUS groups. Anybody want to talk? Check-in is on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr President, I have tried to hold on to what you said in the introduction, that we are discussing individual articles, the content that is written in them, but not to extend to all possible areas. So, the 42nd paragraph, which arose precisely because of the fact that he somehow watches over the implementation of this law, is to be checked in practice, to what extent [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u121	Article 41.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u122	Excuse me. I can only say about Article 41 what has been said before that there has actually been an agreement between the individual partners on the committee to draw up an appropriate committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u123	Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u124	Thank you very much. If I sum up what my colleague said before me, obviously the law was being prepared on the basis that there was a consensus between the individual partners who had just participated on the committee. The legislative process only knows those who need to be contacted, and the laws prescribe that. Now, whether they're all on the board or not, it's just another thing. This article is similar to what it used to be. Similarly, it points to the current "witch hunt" and the discriminatory attitude towards the representative student association, this is the Student Organisation of Slovenia. In the original text, the Student Organisation of Slovenia was one of those who would appoint members to this professional commission to monitor the implementation of small work, besides non-disputable members of the Ministry, the Labour Inspectorate and the Office of the Republic of Employment, and also employers' associations and trade unions. The explanation in the amendment, why is the student organisation in this group being deleted, but is that there is no – how does it write? – a conflict of interest. Now, please explain to me whose amendments we listened to in Article 4. Was that an amendment to the Chamber of Commerce? He was. Is the Chamber of Commerce a member of the Chamber of Commerce? Yes, it is. Is it the Chamber of Commerce that will appoint a member here? Yes, it is. How could the unions, which the minister himself said they were advocating that little work would not be or that it would be as little as possible, that they were not in conflict of interest, but that they could still name their man. How the economists who want as much as possible of this small work are not in conflict of interest, but can still name their member. Why? Because they're big because they're strong because they're legally members of the Economic and Social Council and the government needs to talk to them. In addition, the following article or the next paragraph of this Article states in one way or another that the report of this Commission will later be addressed by the Economic and Social Council. But no, it's not enough for employers and unions! They have to be there at first! However, the student organization must be cut off as soon as possible so that it does not cause any harm, as we know what it is. This is a discriminatory, underestimating attitude towards the representative student association, which, at least for me, in this case is actually the one who should be a social partner. I don't know why the ministry had so much to talk to the Economic and Social Council about these changes, but not the student organisation. The student organization is actually a union of students. How many "little workers" do you think are part of any union and will join any union? No one's gonna do that! In the union there are those who have regular full-time jobs and those who have become less and less. Thank God, so they also have fewer and fewer unions, and it is therefore necessary to know that other relevant partners should also be sought in these processes of dialogue in the labour market. The student organisation is a relevant partner and should also remain on this committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u125	Madam Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. This is a different kind of conflict of interest, namely, that there is no representative in this expert committee, who is supposed to be on the implementation of the law, who receives small work funding. That's why it's a conflict of interest, that's all. Trade unions don't get money from this address, neither do employers. This is why it is very clear and it is also necessary to look at what the expert tasks of the Commission are, therefore, to be seen in the link and the tasks are: to confirm the organisation's business plans, to confirm the organisation's annual report, to monitor the work of the organisations and the way in which the levy is to be removed. So these are tasks, you can look more closely at them in Article 42, where it is clear that if representatives of those who receive funds from this, this is an obvious conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u127	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Vito Rozjej, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u128	Representatives of the Economic Union, including union representatives, will be able to report a project in cooperation with some students who will also receive this money, or with some young people. Everyone's looking for funds wherever they can. So much for this conflict of interest. In short, it's not really what you say anyone can do. With this answer, however, you have now made it clear to me that this is the abolition of an autonomous source of funding for the student organisation. This is how we end financial autonomy. So far, students have been able to know how much, how much, where, who, who financed them, and from now on, they will only receive gifts from the state. The same as for the autonomous financing of municipalities. We have very little funding for the municipalities with some autonomous resources, most of which are decommissioned resources from the country. This, of course, is bad, for the autonomy of local self-government is bad, for the autonomy of students and for other autonomy. In short, I understand these tendencies that they can be the same throughout the country, but they go in the wrong direction, and this country is increasingly free and we are increasingly dependent on it. And if there's a sign of a student, it's that he's free; and he wants to stay that way, he's obviously not gonna be able to be any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u129	Mr. Dejan Levanic, did you raise your hand earlier? You're giving up. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u130	Nevertheless, I would explain, as the Members who are sitting here today probably know exactly, perhaps at least for the public who is watching us that that article we were talking about earlier sets out the tendering conditions and the distribution of money. However, in this article, which we are currently discussing, it is a professional committee monitoring the implementation of the law, which does not mean that it is only a matter of dividing resources, but mainly of transparency and the purpose of the use of resources, but not of the content of the tenders themselves. However, it may be necessary to establish some transparency over the existing use of funds, as has been said several times before. In particular, it will have – for example, monitor statistics on small work, propose the introduction of emergency controls, propose the withdrawal of the authorisation to carry out activities, propose the introduction of controls on the use of resources from duties and propose amendments to the rules on small work arrangements, review and confirm annual reports, monitor the work of the organisation and the way in which duties are removed, monitor the use of the tax resources in accordance with the purposes set out in this Act. Therefore, it is not set here to monitor the content of individual invitations to tender, this is the subject of that tendering commission we discussed earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u131	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 41 and the amendment to this article? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. We are moving on to Article 42 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the application. Mrs. Black Nebula, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u132	Thank you very much. So, Article 42 of this Law speaks of an additional guardian that we want to incorporate into the Small Work Act. To draw up a report on the implementation of the effects of this law, in particular by focusing on the work of unemployed persons, to prepare and submit this report to the Economic and Social Council, and later to the National Assembly. Aware of the warnings that came around the possibility of abuse of small work, which represents only one of the forms in the continuum of work that exist in the labour market — that is, real full-time work, part-time work and some intermediate element of small work, which is replaced by up to 60 hours a month — there were a number of doubts that, perhaps, especially in the case of unemployed persons, abuse could occur here. However, I must say that, out of correctness, those who have quoted research and experiences from different countries would nevertheless be subject to the argument of these abuses, including those that have highlighted the positive effects of small work, including in the case of unemployed persons. And this is that, however, unemployed people find work easier than those who are completely excluded from the labour market, and also that it reduces the scope of work in black. In short, the debate needs to be balanced somehow. But as I say, you have to listen to all these phone calls for attention. And despite the fact that our little work is already basically set up differently than in Germany and Austria, that basically the primary status fuses were designed, then by the form of control that goes through the employment agency and so on, it would be determined, after one year, whether these black scenarios in the labour market are being implemented. Again, employers also said when raising the minimum wage that the Slovenian market would lose 70,000 jobs. Is it? It's not. So let's also let something live in practice and see how things work out. Maybe I could just say a word about the social partners. Personally, I have a great desire that the social partners are involved as much as possible in the drafting of laws, and, last but not least, they were present at the meeting and we have taken into account certain of their proposals on the Committee. But if someone digs in and says, "No, for me, it's unacceptable," then dialogue is not possible. Dialogue is possible only if we listen to each other and come with common solutions. The fact is, we talked to both the unions and the students and invited them to participate constructively in the drafting of the law. And now we are where we are; we have prepared the law to the fullest extent possible by listening to the interests that have been present and by following it in life, or by fulfilling those goals that have been set. All I can say is that at this stage of coordination, which was carried out in the National Assembly itself, we had excellent hearing about what the social partners were telling us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you. Anyone else? I'm opening the application. Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the amendment to Article 42, I must say that we support it in our Group of Members. However, we have been skeptical about the integration of the unemployed among the beneficiaries of small work during the entire examination of the bill. For a simple reason or a fear that a small job will become a substitute for a basic form of working relationship, especially because they are people who should be fully active. We have noted that if appropriate modifications to the draft law in this part were not to take place in the next stages of the legislative process, further support for the law of our parliamentary group may be questionable. There was more than enough room for manoeuvre to improve the text of the bill in terms of finding appropriate fuses. Although we have also made proposals on the employer's commitment to employ the unemployed, it would be too restrictive to make such a commitment, after a demonstrated and constant need to use small-time employment quotas. Nevertheless, in the Group of Members, we are pleased that it has finally been possible to introduce a type of guard, albeit more or less special, which will allow for all very careful monitoring and consideration of the effects of small work on employment. This will also give us the opportunity to act in a timely manner, according to our assessment, to avoid serious consequences for the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u135	Anyone else want a word on this article? We're talking about Article 42, Mr. Rose. Can I help you? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, it's a second-hand proposal for a law on the regulation of the market for work. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President and honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Since its inception in 1991, the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act has been amended and supplemented 18 times, and changes to the law have affected non-systemically, causing major problems in its implementation. Active employment policies have been updated in recent years, and a number of new measures and programmes have been introduced, and they have often not been able to be implemented quickly and efficiently because of inadequate solutions in the aforementioned law. The current economic and financial crisis has shown this even more clearly, and in fact it has also been an important catalyst for us to approach the system-wide drafting of the new law. The biggest obstacles to the implementation of existing legislation are in particular: a vague delineation of activities in relation to sources of funding between the services themselves and, on the other hand, measures, temporary procedures for the use of budgetary resources for active employment policy, insufficient grounds for the inclusion of certain vulnerable groups, groups of persons entering the labour market, such as those immediately prior to the loss of employment, the new labour market situation, the unadjusted unemployment insurance system and, consequently, the difficult implementation of this system, including the decision on rights under the insurance system. There were also problematic insufficient grounds for the involvement of different institutions in the treatment of persons with employment barriers, particularly between the institution itself and the centres for social work. Therefore, in accordance with the normative programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and also of the exit strategy, we have approached the preparation of two laws, what you will now consider, and the law you have previously passed, this is the Small Work Act. The proposal for a labour market law brings new solutions and solves major problems in the implementation of the current law in this area. Its main objective is to further introduce the concept of safe flexibility in the labour market in the Republic of Slovenia. This objective will be achieved in conjunction with changes in the system laws governing labour relations on the one hand and the social security system, and will also increase the role of active employment policy, and will ensure significantly greater security for unemployed persons, strengthen the safety of persons who have lost their jobs or are at risk of their employment, enable younger people to access cash compensation in the event of unemployment and increase the remuneration of older persons, increase the effectiveness and effectiveness of the implementation of active employment policies, reduce administrative burdens on businesses and persons in the labour market and increase supervision of institutions in the labour market. The law also introduces stricter financial and professional supervision of the functioning of institutions in the labour market. A key focus is on a systematic approach to reporting and monitoring and evaluation of measures. This will enable more efficient and cost-effective use of public funds. The law therefore provides greater security in the event of loss of employment on the one hand and a faster path to first or second-hand employment with effective implementation of labour market measures. Therefore, honourable Members, I propose that you support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Hello again! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent, considered the proposal for a labour market regulation law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. Meetings of the Committee were attended by representatives and representatives of the proposed law, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, the State Council, the Economic Chambers of Slovenia, the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, the Independence of the Confederation of New Trade Unions, the Confederation of Trade Unions of Pergam, the Youth Council of Slovenia, the SOS, the Employment Institute, the Professional Interest Association of Interim Works Agencies and the Centre of NGOs of Slovenia. The amendments to the bill were tabled by the SDS Group and the SD Group of Members, Indeed, DeSUS and LDS. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposal of the law. On the basis of Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly adopted a conclusion that the proposal for a labour market regulation law was appropriate for further consideration. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the proposer, Dr Anja Kopač Dark, briefly presented the fundamental reasons for the adoption of the bill and in particular its main solution. She also said that they supported the amendments tabled by the coalition groups prepared on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented the written opinion and said that the main part of their comments had been taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and that the provisions of Articles 65, 115 and 123 had been specifically highlighted in the discussion on the individual articles of the bill, to which the amendments had not been tabled or the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service had not been duly taken into account. These observations or concerns related to the issue of compliance with the Constitution or were based on a decision of the Constitutional Court. In the debate on individual articles and on the amendments tabled, the members and members of the Committee and the invited particular attention were paid to the proposed solutions to the draft law relating to the definition of terms, the type of insurance rights, in particular the rights to pay contributions to pension and disability insurance, the duration of the allowance, the basis for eight entitlements to monetary compensation, the amount of the monetary contribution, the grounds for the refusal of the right to payment and the required education of staff of the employment institution. The longer discussion focused on the provisions of Articles 5, 58, 61 and 63 of the draft law. These provisions were also accompanied by proposals for amendments to the Committee, which the Committee did not adopt or adopt in its amendments. The Committee adopted all amendments from the Zares, SD, DeSUS and LDS groups. The Committee also adopted two amendments to the SDS Group and did not accept or become irrelevant to the other amendments. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted, is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you. Since the assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 19th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We then turn to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will make on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2010 I am putting to the debate first Article 54 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. Then I conclude the debate. And we move on to 192nd Article and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. And we move on to Article 194 and the amendment to this article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. Period of the day - Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Law on Postal Services. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. A representative of the Ministry of Higher Education, Minister or Secretary of State, who is already in the Chamber, would be needed to further explain the bill. Here, you have the floor to explain the bill. Let's go to the phone booth. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u140	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to briefly present a proposal for a law amending the Postal Services Act. In June 2009, a new postal service law was adopted in the National Assembly for the transposition of the amended Postal Services Directive. This law also regulates, inter alia, the universal service financing system if it entails net costs which are an unfair burden on the universal service provider, which would be imposed on him in such a duty to implement. Therefore, the law also provides for the establishment of a specific compensation fund, to which all postal service providers committed. The general rule and criteria for the calculation of the amount of the contribution of individual debtors to this Fund are set out in Article 23, paragraph 1, of this Act, which is also considered sufficient by the European Commission and by content in accordance with the Directive. In the second paragraph of Article 23 of the existing law, the use of additional weights was envisaged for the calculation of the contribution of the individual debtor to the fund, and a regulation was also envisaged to determine how this weight would be calculated and used in the calculation of the amount of the contribution of the individual debtor. At that time, the applicant considered that the use of such additional weights could contribute to greater burden proportionality. Of course, it was later shown that the debtors did not have the relevant data and that their collection for the purpose of preparing and implementing the regulation would result in a disproportionate administrative burden. The European Commission has also pointed out through its services that the provision of Article 23(2) of the existing law is inappropriate, unnecessary and restrictive for entry into the postal market. At the same time, its implementation will also create an administrative burden. We have also received an initiative to delete this legal provision by an existing universal service provider, the Posta Slovenije d. o. o. The proposed deletion of this provision was also agreed by the Postal and Electronic Communications Agency of the Republic of Slovenia as a sectoral regulator and the Competition Protection Office of the Republic of Slovenia as a general competition guard. With the bill under consideration today, we therefore propose deleting the disputed and unnecessary second paragraph of Article 23 of the existing Postal Services Act. As a result, two other provisions of the law necessary for the implementation or reference to this provision in question are partially deleted. The proposed amendment thus reduces the administrative burden, while at the same time eliminating doubts as to the correctness of the transposition of the directive. This could become controversial in particular after the deadline for its transposition into the Slovenian legal order, which is after 31 December 2010. Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. You've received the committee's report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Györek has the floor to present the views of the Slovenian National Party Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed amendments to the Postal Services Act effectively ensure the transposition of the 2008 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, which introduces the release of the market and the opening up of the market for postal services in competition. It is a complete release of the postal services market, and we are also bound to the deadline for the adoption of the law, which is until the end of this year. The proposed arrangement will certainly ensure that the desired objectives, such as quality, accessible, universal postal services, are achieved at least five times a week for all the people of the Republic of Slovenia, without discrimination, including adequate protection of the rights of postal users and, as has already been said, promoting effective competition in the postal market. These are amendments or additions to two articles of the current 2009 postal service law. Since it is the calculation of the net cost of the universal service obligation, in which the Agency will take into account traffic, created in individual local communities by using a weight which is inversely proportional to the average cost of providing interchangeable services by universal service per capita in each local community. The Government will decide on how to calculate and apply the corresponding weights by its regulation. There is nothing else to add about the amendments to the law in question, perhaps just the establishment of a compensation fund that will regulate the possible eligibility of compensation in the case of net costs in the execution of universal services. We will also adopt such amendments in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State! The content of the Act amending the Postal Service Act means that the law is aligned with the legal order of the European Union and that is why we will support it to the LDS. The content of the novel is an important milestone for postal services, as exclusive and specific rights of service are fully eliminated and the market for postal services is thus opened or the market for competition is opened. The central amendment introduced by the Directive is therefore the complete release of the postal services market. The postal market must be released by 31 December 2010 at the latest. The purpose of this law is to ensure the correctness of the transposition of the Directive of the European Union. It is about ensuring the implementation of quality and accessible universal postal services at least five times a week for all residents of the Republic of Slovenia without discrimination, protecting the rights of users and promoting effective competition in the postal market, all due to the full opening up of the market and the expansion of the postal service market. The proposed arrangement will have a good impact on the achievement of these objectives. The proposal for a legal solution follows the principles of the Directive itself, in particular the principles of non-discrimination, transparency and consequently legal certainty and proportionality. At the same time, the proposed solution reduces administrative burdens and, as I said in the introduction, we will also support the amendment of the law at the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour law, the amendments at the assembly cannot be tabled, so I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 34. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE DECISION ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE DECISION ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE FUND FOR THE FINANCING OF DISABLE AND HUMANITARIAN ORGANIZATIONS IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The draft decree was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal for a law [[no representative of the Government]] . The motion for a decree was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. You have received the report of the Committee, followed by a presentation of the views of the delegations. We're very modest here, too, as far as presence is concerned. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Amendments and additions to the Decision establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia are amendments to the legislation that touches and conditiones the operation of the FIHO Foundation and has changed over time. By amending the decree, the applicants also wanted to change the headquarters of the Foundation, which had moved from the premises of Loteria Slovenije to its own premises, but the decree was a sub-legislative provision and could not therefore be settled with it and would have to wait for the amendment of the law. Amendments to the decree also regulate the compatibility of the status forms of disabled and humanitarian organisations with the law which was adopted later and defined differently by these organisations. Amendments to the Decision will also allow the National Assembly to resolve members of the FIHO Council if it fails to fulfil the tasks set out in the Foundation Act or does not act in accordance with its interests. The National Assembly will also be able to dispose of an individual member of the FIHO Council, a representative of a disability or humanitarian organisation after the amendments have been adopted, if it ceases to operate. Article 13 of the existing decree is still being amended and it is thus precisely defined when a two-thirds majority of all members of the Council are required to take a decision, as provided for in Article 11(2) of the Law on the Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia supports the proposed amendments to the decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u147	Mr Andrej Magajna will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u148	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary, nice greeting! .................................................. We also believe in the SD Group that amendments and additions to the Decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia are necessary to harmonise the creation act with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Property Conversion of the Loteria Slovenije, which was last amended in early 2007. Otherwise, the composition and designation of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia is governed by the mandate of the members of the Council, the decision of the Council by qualified majority on the role of Director and its appointment and discharge. We also believe in the SD Group, in view of all the above, that the provisions of the Foundation's founding act should be aligned with the amendments to the amended law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you. Mag. Mr Tisel will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u150	Good-bye, everyone. Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the Decision establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organisations. Amendments to the decree are necessary in order to harmonise this act of incorporation with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Loteria Slovenije. It is necessary to amend or harmonise the seat of the Foundation which has moved to its own premises at a new location and therefore to change the title of its seat. Amendments to Article 12 of the decree shall, in the light of the new rule of limitation of the mandate, delete the text which allowed for an unlimited renewal of the mandate. With the addition of Article 13, the decision-making arrangements of the Foundation's world are complemented by the establishment of a qualified majority for the adoption of the Foundation's most important general acts. As I said in the introduction, we will support the decree in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The government submitted to the National Assembly an amendment to the decree establishing the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, and the amendments relate to the adopted amendment of the Law on Property Conversion of the Loteria Slovenije, adopted three years ago, in 2007. Some of the changes in the proposal tabled, which has also been pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, have not been followed by changes. You could even say that they were in conflict with the law in force. In particular, I am talking about the initial proposed deletion of the last paragraph of Article 5 of the decree, which relates in fact to the personal representation, of a more specific organisation in the world or, as my colleague Tisell said, to the renewal of the mandate. I'm not going to let myself go to the content of this place. On the basis of the opinion of the Legal Service, the proposed text in the form of an amendment was adopted and, in short, corrected accordingly. Not to repeat the arguments of the predecessors, let me just say that the decree before us is not disputed and in the Group of Members, indeed – we will support it. However, the fact remains that there are many anomalies in the field of funding for disabled and humanitarian organisations that require a change to the law itself to which this decree applies. Regrettably, in view of the experience we have had with this decree and the adoption of the law that we have dealt with this morning, it is obvious that the drafting of legislation in this area is also pandering to the content, as it was once said, of the second time, of the time so much more with joy. However, this proposal for an act will be supported in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you. Jakob Preseknik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! It looks like a change to the decree only for formal changes, as it is adopted to comply with the status definitions of disabled and humanitarian organisations in later laws governing disability and humanitarian organisations. It will also have to be regulated in accordance with the actual situation of the Foundation's seat by law and decree. However, the most important article of the amendments is, of course, the arrangements for decision-making in the Foundation's world and the needs of a qualified majority to make important decisions, the allocation of funds and similar important decisions. For example, the Council takes important decisions such as the allocation of funds, which makes frequent comments and disagreements between disability and humanitarian organisations. The decree shall be supplemented by the establishment of a qualified majority for the adoption of the Foundation's most important general acts, such as the financial plan, the closure account and the rules governing the conditions, criteria and allocation of funds of the Foundation, as laid down by the amendment of the law. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the addition of the decree to the amendment, which stipulates that the majority of the members of the Council decide, since the decree has so far not clearly regulated it. Whenever we face regulations concerning disabled persons or humanitarian organisations, there are many contradictions and requirements that must be taken into account in the formulation of regulations and major decisions relating to them, all recognised organisations of persons with disabilities and humanitarian organisations, so it is right that all the decisions on important documents of the Foundation are co-decision-making or that the most important decisions are taken by the 2/3 majority of all members of the Foundation Council. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will, as we say, support the proposal for a decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u155	Thank you. We have ended by moving the positions of the groups of Members. No amendments were tabled to the proposed decision. The decision on the motion for a decree will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 11. On the proposal of the Law on State Subventions for the purchase of more friendly motor vehicles. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of four Members with the first-signed Dr. Luka Juri. The proposal for a law is set out below at the 22nd session of 9. 9. 2010 discussed by the Home Committee on Environment and Space. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u156	Dear Mr. Vice President! The purpose of the proposal for a law on state subsidies for the purchase of more environmentally friendly passenger motor vehicles is to encourage the removal from transport of the most environmentally friendly passenger vehicles and their replacement with environmentally friendly vehicles. However, both advocates and opponents of the law do not have concrete proposals at this time. It is left to the discretion of the people who are to ensure the implementation of the law financially, on the other hand, through the adoption of the budget every year. Amendments to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act have already helped to encourage the purchase of environmentally sound vehicles, but they have no effect on the market of old vehicles. The correction of such an arrangement is a law that we consider to have an effect through a subsidy relating to the destruction of environmentally-friendly vehicles and thus encourages the purchase of environmentally-friendly vehicles. The proposal provides for different amounts of subsidies according to the type of vehicle to which the subsidy relates and the maximum subsidies are provided for in the purchase of vehicles without direct CO2 emissions. In the event of the purchase of a hybrid vehicle based on an engine for internal combustion of an electric engine, a higher subsidy is proposed as such vehicles have significantly lower emissions compared to conventional engines. As cheaper but still environmentally effective measures are the installation of filters in diesel engines or the installation of liquefied gas propulsion systems. However, since such interventions are of an average value of around eight hundred euros, the planned subsidy is accordingly lower. The subsidy certainly contributes to the modernisation of the rolling stock, but should not have a legal effect on those vehicles which are still in very good condition and should focus on flights rather than on the functionality of the vehicle and should unnecessarily create pressure on the owners of such vehicles. The law should encourage holders of older vehicles with appropriate content to purchase a new, environmentally friendly vehicle. Of course, we rightly ask ourselves how this law will affect the recovery of the Slovenian economy, so that it will not only fill the pockets of skilled foreign traders and speculators who, after every well-intentioned move of the country, will survive the most. In any case, there is a need to look at the wider picture of a cleaner environment, because we are not, after all, living in this environment and we cannot care, so it is right to think in the direction that the proposaler proposes. The law is well-intentioned, but in a certain segment it is not convincing. The individual parameters of the law are insufficiently concrete and vague, but they are not clearly recorded in the part where it refers to legal remedies, which must also include the possibility of a complaint, which is also a constitutional category. It is therefore necessary to supplement and amend the law so that it can be implemented. In the Slovenian National Party, we will vote on the law in our own conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u157	Thank you. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u158	Good day to all present, especially to the Vice-President with her co-worker. The Group of Social Democrats has been somewhat separated in relation to this law, we can say, because it was, I can say, a majority opinion that the Government should prepare a more appropriate bill covering not only investment or subsidisation of car purchases, but in particular an increase in the subsidisation of energy-efficient investments in energy rehabilitation of buildings and similar projects. It is therefore quite welcome that the Committee on the Environment and Space has, if we say so, emptied the law and that we will not have to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr Aloise Potočnik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u160	Your Honor! The proposed law addresses an extremely complex and delicate issue of transport connectivity and long-term environmental conservation. In short, its purpose was to withdraw from the transport of the most environmentally friendly passenger vehicles and replace them with environmentally friendly vehicles. State subsidies are proposed as a measure to follow economic, health and environmental aspects. Unquestionably, it is a problem that cannot be overlooked. In the Group of Members, we are really trying to put the environment first and we support all well-thought-out proposals aimed at objectives aimed at sustainable development and environmental protection. We know that the damage we cause to the environment as a whole is difficult or even irreparable. Therefore, as well as Stern's report, climate change poses a serious global threat and requires a priority global response. In doing so, let me stress that car traffic is the most unsustainable mode of transport or mobility. In the August report, I quote: "Transport, which is increasingly responsible for global climate change with almost 100% dependence on fossil fuels, contributes about 30% of all greenhouse gas emissions." Indeed, the Group also draws attention to the large implementation deficit, which is reflected in the difficult implementation of environmental legislation, also for the sake of weakening the interests of capital over the interests of the environment and health, which is why we do not want to regulate this area by promoting sales, which is what the automotive industry does soundly and without encouragement. The role of the State is dual in the concept that we advocate: for the first time through tax policy, it encourages the automotive industry to develop technologically and environmentally friendly vehicles. Second, to raise awareness, inform and educate all residents and not just customers about our planet for offspring. Of course, the proposal is not about reading out hidden purposes, but it lacks some conceit and persuasiveness. The latter considered that, in fact, the Group of the Members had been held to such an extent that it could not support the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u162	Thank you again very much for your word. Good-bye, everyone. More or less, I will reiterate the position that Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group have already advocated in the general debate on this bill. For we believe that this law is inappropriate for this time. During the global economic crisis, when we have 100,000 unemployed in Slovenia, endlessly many problems with the relaunching of the Slovenian economy and entrepreneurship, with payment indiscipline, inequity, inaccessibility to money, which should necessarily be directed and directed towards development and for our future, this measure cannot be a priority. We can easily spend a dozen purposes, for which it would be wiser to spend €4.5 million per year than to buy almost predetermined brands and types of cars. We can't get rid of the feeling that it's a completely lobbyist marriage. Other measures are needed to achieve objectives such as clean environment, health, air quality and the achievement of limit values for pollution in accordance with European Union directives and transport safety. In addition, it seems unacceptable to us that, for example, there has been no support for the proposal of our Group of Members to subsidise or facilitate investments in the economy, which would certainly be a much better measure that would give a much greater added value to the economy and, above all, raise economic growth. In social legislation, the current coalition has abolished state pensions, while at the same time proposing a law to promote car purchases from a budget of €4.5 million. I must admit that it is somehow logical and understandable for us why the members of this law did not receive support from the home committee, but I must admit that it would be much happier if, in an ecological sense, the country began to subsidise more, for example, the use of wood, the construction of wooden dwellings, including residential blocks, the use of wooden furniture, not plastic, iron, aluminium. Thus we see that it is essentially a kind of acceleration of sales, although those — this is my personal thinking — who buy the most environmentally-controversial cars or the oldest cars that are the most environmentally controversial ones, will anyway buy cars for 200, 300 euros and will receive this subsidy to those for whom I already predict that they have money to buy a new car. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues. If this bill had successfully passed the second treatment on the home labour body, this time it would not have received the support of the DeSUS Group. The purpose of the bill was to grant aid in the form of a State subsidy to certain groups of natural and legal persons with a view to encouraging the purchase of environmentally friendly vehicles and to encourage the owner of an old vehicle to withdraw it from transport and to destroy it. In the Member State of DeSUS, we concluded that the basic text of the proposal of this law, which, by the way, was a good intention of the proposer, was inconsistent, inappropriate from a nomological point of view. Therefore, the DeSUS Members did not contribute their signatures as co-proposers. Most of all, however, we have been disturbed by provisions that provide for subsidisation only to natural but not to legal persons, which, according to our assessment, is controversial in terms of equality. For this reason, the proposed law in the DeSUS Group would not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u165	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Period of the day - that's a second defensive proposal for a law on geodetic activity. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister for Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have before us the proposal for a law on geodetic activity, in a second reading. This is an organisational law governing geodetic activity and laying down the conditions for carrying out this activity in the Republic of Slovenia. This is not a new law, it is a copy of amendments to and additions to the 2000 Act, which largely preserves the institutions of the current law and further substantiates them in accordance with Directive 2006/123 EC on services in the internal market and Directive 2005/36 EC on the recognition of professional qualifications and on the regulations — Directives are transposed into the Slovenian legal order as a field law — to a new condition for the exercise of geodetic activities and for the exercise of regulated professions for providers and citizens from the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area, the Swiss Confederation and third-country providers. The law complements and amends the existing arrangements of the institutes or competences of the geodetic undertaking, the geodet, the responsible surveyor. As a result, it amends the content of the inspection of the implementation of the law and the punishment for offences in the event of violations. The questions concerning the establishment of educational conditions for responsible surveyors and surveyors with a geodetic card, the competences of the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia and education are consistent with the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy, the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia, the mother section of the surveyors at the IZS and the Economic Interest Association of Geodesic Artists. The proposed arrangement is in line with the arrangements of other engineering professions in Slovenia, which are being merged into the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia. The information officer shall coordinate all questions relating to the protection of personal data in the directories governed by law, access rights, personal data in those directories and the charging of costs for the use of network services. The amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups in the second reading to the proposed article are useful in our view. We support greater protection of geodesy subscribers, which has led the Committee on Environment and Space to propose an amendment to Article 3. However, the text to delete the text referred to in paragraph 3 of Article 2 or in any other legal way constitutes a restriction on the form of work or cooperation, since geodetic undertakings must ensure the participation of at least one individual who fulfils the conditions for the responsible geodetic operator prior to the start of the geodetic activity under the employment contract. Such a text would affect the position of foreign providers who would like to carry out a geodetic activity in Slovenia. This can be done under the same conditions as for Slovenian geodesic companies, and they should also have at least one responsible geodesy in case of continuous or occasional activity. Such arrangements would be contrary to Article 2 f(15) of Directive 2006/123-E on services in the internal market, which requires Member States to verify that their legal system requires the initiation or operation of service activities by establishing a requirement setting out the minimum number of employees. The requirement is subject to assessment and the reasons for it must be specifically justified by the Member States in terms of non-discrimination, necessity and reasons in the public interest. Since there is no restriction of forms of work or cooperation in the existing legislative areas of engineering services, other legal forms of cooperation are allowed in addition to the employment contract, we also consider that there are no specific reasons for carrying out geodetic activities which would require different arrangements. We therefore propose that the National Assembly imposes on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a harmonisation amendment to ensure the compatibility of the proposal with GEOD1 with Directive 2006/123-E on services in the internal market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u167	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Breda Pecan to present the report to the Committee. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At its 22nd regular session on 8 September, the Committee on the Environment and Space considered the proposal for a law on geodetic activities, which was sent to the State Assembly by the Government in the ordinary legislative procedure. In the introductory explanation of the articles of the bill, the representative of the proposer, State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and Space, Dr Peter Gasperšič said that the proposed law largely preserves the solutions to the current law on geodetic activity. With the new law, the Government wants to systematically and clearly regulate the conduct of geodetic activities in Slovenia for both domestic and foreign legal and natural persons who want to carry out geodetic activities in the Republic of Slovenia. The Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council supported the proposal, found that the proposal was without prejudice to the established arrangements for the provision of geodetic services on the free market, but the chairman of the committee pointed out that the price increases for geodetic services were expected to contribute to lower prices. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which warned that the status of the surveyor and the responsible surveyor should be specified in the legislative text, in particular in terms of determining the powers arising from those statutes and its other comments on individual solutions, the coalition's parliamentary groups tabled 32 amendments to individual articles within the time limit of business, and in the debate at the meeting itself, the Committee also decided on its amendments to Articles 3 and 10 and on its amendments to the amendments of the coalition groups to the amendment for the new Article 5a and the amendment to Article 14. In the context of the second reading of the draft law in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. The Committee adopted all amendments to the parliamentary groups, with the exception of Article 10 of the bill, which became irrelevant as the Committee adopted its amendment to this Article, which further improved the proposed solutions to delete the responsible geodet from the directory of the Slovenian Chamber of Engineers. On the basis of the discussion at the Committee's meeting, the Committee adopted its amendments to Article 3, the amendment to the amendment to Article 5a to Article 10 and the amendment to Article 14. Following a discussion on the individual articles of the draft law and after the discussion and vote on the amendments in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the draft law together and adopted them, so that we can now consider the text of the updated draft Law on Geodetic Activities, which includes the amendments adopted under Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u169	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. Mr. Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Geodetic activity is one of those that is not the most visible to the public. The surveyors measure different land and deal with the presentation of land surfaces on plans and maps, and also deal with a number of other geodetic works and tasks, and as the public service provides basic data on space and real estate in databases and provides services related to the recording of changes in space and real estate, they play a coordinating role in the area of the real estate system and spatial data infrastructure. The tasks related to the provision of conditions for the implementation of geodetic measurements and for the compatibility of the national coordination system with the European coordination system are still to be mentioned. Therefore, as citizens, if we are not exactly investors, we do not face this activity very often. With one large exception from the project of mass property valuation, on the basis of which we will also introduce objective and comprehensive property taxation in Slovenia. The real estate owners are expected to finally receive a notice of the experimental value of their real estate or its general market value in those days. So after 10 years, we are adopting a new law regulating geodetic activity. We agree with the proposalers that the bill is not entirely new and that it is, above all, a written text of amendments and a supplement to the existing law. The proposal largely preserves the institutions of the current law, which further break down and supplement them. The news is mainly conditioned by directives that must be transposed into legislation regulating geodetic activity in Slovenia. They will allow the free establishment and free provision of geodetic services or non-discriminatory treatment of domestic and foreign legal and natural persons wishing to carry out this activity in Slovenia. Furthermore, in practice, the need for a more precise definition of individual powers has been demonstrated in the implementation of the applicable law, namely a geodetic undertaking, responsible surveyor, liability insurance, geodet, geodetic card, geodetic inspectorate and so on, and the proposal for a law also brings these solutions. It is worth mentioning that the proposal for a law lays down the conditions for carrying out a geodetic activity and a regulated profession of responsible surveyors and surveyors. However, the conditions for vocational education are not only changing; they are adapted to the study under the Bologna programme. In doing so, we would like to say that in the LDS we support the amendment that was drafted and adopted by the Committee on Environment and Space on Article 3 and that it will allow individuals responsible for geodets to conclude a mass of legitimate contractual relations with a number of geodesic companies, because we do not want to see traces of the responsibility of both the responsible geodesist and the geodesic undertaking disappear over time due to the temporary and rapid change of these conditions. Despite the proposal's concerns, we believe that this solution will also help to improve the quality of geodetic services, since the non-professional delivery of geodetic services can seriously affect the rights of property owners. Moreover, ensuring an adequate level of expertise in geodetic services and user safety and services is undoubtedly in the public interest. Let us add to the conclusion that this dilemma also shows the whole problem of abolishing the directory of geodetic enterprises. We also doubt that the situation will be significantly improved by the envisaged optional or voluntary admission of geodetic enterprises into the list of geodetic enterprises at the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia. However, we can add the necessary conclusion that we do not need to be more papal than the pope in the transposition of the directives' solutions into our legal order. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we also point out that the regulation of the geodetic service carried out in the public interest remains unchanged. This shows that this part of the geodetic activity is well-trained and well-organised, which is especially satisfying for us in LDS. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law on geodetic activity.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u172	Well, hello, everyone here. The proposal for a Law on Geodetics contains a new regulation of the conditions for carrying out geodetic activities and for carrying out regular professions for tenderers and nationals from the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area and for providers from third countries. The proposal for a new Law on Geodetics also substantively complements and amends the current arrangements for carrying out geodetic activities in accordance with the Internal Market Services Directive. In addition to the Law on Services in the Internal Market and the Law, following the procedure for the recognition of qualifications to nationals of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation for the performance of regulated professions or activities in the Republic of Slovenia, by taking into account the specificities of the exercise of this activity and by modifying the content of the inspection supervision of the implementation of the law and the penalties for offences. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support changes in the law, as we are convinced that there are many cases in practice in the implementation of geodetic activities that cast a bad light on it, so these are cases, in this case also cases of bad practice, in the implementation of geodetic plans, border setting and the abuse of geodetic cards. All these irregularities have been eliminated by the supplements adopted by the Committee on the Environment and Space, while I must point out that for the Group of Members, the contract of employment with the geodesic undertaking and the responsible geodesy is a basic condition for the conduct of the geodesic activity. We will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u174	Dear Vice President, Your Honor Minister! The proposal for a law on geodetic activity, which was sent by the Government in a regular procedure, does not change, according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, the current arrangements for the implementation of geodetic services in the free market. However, if the basic purpose of this law is to systematically and clearly regulate the conduct of geodetic activities in Slovenia for both domestic and foreign legal and natural persons who wish to carry out this activity in the Republic of Slovenia, and in particular for foreign operators, it may become an obstacle to the amendment of the Committee to Article 3 of the Act. This amendment prevents the conclusion of legal contractual obligations between responsible surveyors and other companies that must be employed in a geodetic undertaking. This, however, may prevent the activities of foreign legal and natural persons. The responsible geodesy responds with its stamp and signature and the trail of responsibility cannot be erased, as stated by the committee's explanation, but it can prevent foreign responsible geodesists from carrying out this activity in the Republic of Slovenia, which is contrary to the work of this law's purpose and also to European regulations. The Slovenian Democratic Party here supports the Minister's position that it is necessary to comply with the European Union Directive. In the event that this amendment is incorporated into the law, the Slovenian Democratic Party will neither support nor oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u176	Thank you very much again, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Mr. Director, colleague and colleague! The Geodetic Activity Act is an organisational law governing geodetic activity and lays down the conditions for carrying out this activity in the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, we have before us a supplement to the 2000 Law on Geodetic Activities, which largely preserves the institutions of the current legislation and further breaks them down and complements them. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed law because, as a specific area law, the conditions for carrying out geodetic activities and for carrying out regulated professions for tenderers, nationals from the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area, the Swiss Confederation and providers from third countries are new. The new law complements the existing regulation of the institutions or powers of the geodetic undertaking, the surveyor and the responsible surveyor and consequently changes the content of the inspection supervision of the implementation of the law and the penalties for offences in the event of violations. The question concerning the establishment of educational conditions for responsible surveyors and surveyors with a geodetic card, the competences of the Engineering Chamber and the education under the Law on Geodetic Activities were in line with the Faculty of Construction, the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia for Construction and Geodesy, the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia and the Economic and Interesting Associations of Geodetic Operators, which gives us an additional sense of professional preparation of the law in the SLS Group. It also seems to us that the issues relating to the protection of personal data in directories governed by the Law on Geodetic Activities, access rights, access to personal data in these directories and the charging of costs for the use of network services have been coordinated with the Information Officer. Members of the SLS Group will therefore support the proposed law on geodetic activity, although they would expect some points to be regulated slightly differently. Some of the provisions, however, have been amended following the subjective assessment of the Committee, and practice will certainly show, as the Minister has also said, that there is absolutely no need and opposition from the representatives of the Government and the opposition. Otherwise, we believe that the law is professionally prepared and that there is a need for support. We will support the law in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u178	Thanks again for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! We have before us a proposal for a law on geodetic activity, which includes, inter alia, a new regulation of the condition for carrying out geodetic activities and for performing regular professions for tenderers from the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation, as well as for providers from third countries. The purpose of the new law is systematic and. arrange for the provision of geodetic activities in the Republic of Slovenia by allowing for the free establishment and free provision of services or non-discriminatory treatment of domestic and foreign legal and natural persons wishing to carry out geodetic activities in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, some concepts in the field of geodesy change in the new law. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome the news that any geodetic undertaking which has a registered or notified geodetic activity and carries out a geodetic activity must have an insurance contract for damage that may cause to customers or third parties in relation to the performance of its activity. At the same time, on the basis of a contract of employment, the participation of an individual or an individual who fulfils the prescribed condition for a responsible geodet shall be ensured. The novelty also provides provisions on the situation of responsible geodets to ensure an appropriate level of expertise in geodetic activities, the safety of users of geodetic activity. In our Group of Members, we hope that these provisions represent a higher quality of geodetic services, since the non-professional delivery of geodetic services can seriously affect the rights of property owners. Ensuring the expertise of geodetic services and the safety of users of these services is clearly in the public interest. The proposal also redefines, inter alia, the competence to issue geodetic cards, to provide an expert examination for the provision of geodetic services, to maintain a directory of geodetic card holders and to provide compulsory education for surveyors with a geodetic card. These tasks are carried out by the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia – as a public authority under this law. In the parliamentary group, we will support the bill before us. However, we must also find that the proposal for a law does not affect the enforcement of arrangements for the operation of geodetic services in the free market. The current geodetic price policy is due to the requirements of the Internal Market Services Directive, which, except in exceptional circumstances, does not allow minimum tariffs to be fixed as they affect the free movement of services. Although the transition of these free market services is expected to contribute to lower prices, prices of geodetic services have increased significantly since 2008 when they are no longer subject to minimum tariffs, as representatives of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia have also said that the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia did not charge economic prices for the services provided. Relatively high prices for geodetic services are also one of the reasons for the irregular situation in this area, and we therefore positively assess the efforts of the competent ministry and the competent professional chamber to apply as realistic prices as possible on the basis of the standards, standards and values of individual tasks of the geodetic profession. Given that the proposed solutions are simple to establish procedures and allow for the provision of services in certain cases also to foreign operators, we expect in the sending group to lower prices of geodetic services and consequently lower financial burdens on real estate owners. This could also have positive effects on the faster establishment of complete data on the actual situation of all properties in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u180	Dear Mr Vice President, Minister! It is an organisational law regulating the geodetic activity and the conditions for execution. The law is new, but it represents the writing and updating of the Law on Geodetic Activities of 2000. It preserves the content of the current law, which it complements only in certain segments – such as the conditions for geodetic activity and regular occupations for European Union providers and citizens and the Swiss Confederation. This is what the Directive requires in the process of recognising the qualifications of citizens of the European Union and of the Swiss Confederation. In fact, it is an existing system of institutions, which is merely complementary in substance, within the competence of a geodetic undertaking, a surveyor, a responsible surveyor, and consequently changes and influences the inspection, implementation of the law and punishment in the event of infringements. It regulates the determination of the condition of the level of education for responsible surveyors and surveyors with a geodetic card. We expect that the adoption of legislative amendments will end the poor practice of irresponsible geodesists and that a mandatory ID card will also be a guarantee of quality work and the possibility of appealing to an institution in which the service was also provided. Otherwise, the law provides some simplification and thus a reduction of procedures, and also opens the way for competition between foreign operators. That the law is necessary, many users of these services are speaking, pointing to the contractual relationship of geodesists, who are no longer responsible for the work done through the geodetic undertaking in the event of the contract being terminated. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we will also support the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Period of the day - Second defense of the proposed act on liability for nuclear damage. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr. Žarnić. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u182	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have before us the bill on liability for nuclear damage. This fully follows the Convention's liability regime for nuclear damage. It is a Paris Convention with an upgrade to the Brussels Supplemental Convention, as amended and amended by the latest Protocols. The changes in the new law are mainly in the definition of nuclear damage, which is spreading strongly and now, in addition to the loss of life and physical injury and the loss or damage to property, also entails economic damage, the cost of measures to establish a damaged environment in the previous state, loss of income and the cost of preventive measures. Then, in the case of limitation of the right to compensation for loss of life and injury, the deadlines were extended from 10 to 30 years from the date of the nuclear accident — in the case of amounts of liability and compulsory liability insurance. However, since the Convention's provisions are directly applicable, the law deals only with those matters which are referred to the Convention's application of national law. The law also governs the competent national court and the procedure for the enforcement of compensation by the division of compensation, inspection supervision, criminal provisions and the State guarantee for the so-called negative insurance coverage. Responsibility for nuclear damage is limited, but also channelled. The user of the nuclear device is responsible for this damage. The State responds subsidiaryly but at the same time originally to the amount to be provided by the user. The bill provides for compulsory liability insurance for the user up to EUR 700 million, which is taken over by the Convention. With regard to the State's responsibility between €700 and €1,200 million and €1,500 million, the bill only stipulates that the State must provide such protection, but it does not provide for compulsory insurance and its liability. Until the first level, 700 million, it saves the damage to the insurance undertaking where the responsible user insured its liability. If and when the damage exceeds the amount of the user's liability, a commitment of the Republic of Slovenia will arise to provide funds ranging from €700 million to €1.2 million and €1.5 billion respectively. The proposed solution whereby the insurance undertaking uses, on the basis of an agreement with the State, the Ministry of Finance, procedures and methods for assessing and liquidating claims from compulsory user insurance funds also in the assessment and liquidation of claims from public funds. However, public funds from the State will not need to be provided in full immediately. On the basis of the estimated amount of damage prepared by the Commission within 6 months of the occurrence of the accident, a special intervention law, in addition to the amount, manner and dynamics of State resources, shall also lay down rules on the deferred payment of compensations. This shall take into account the rules governing the distribution of damages, as already regulated by the law. In this respect, an important solution is linked to outdated deadlines. In order to comply with the Convention, it is necessary to set an expiry date of 30 years for loss of life or injury and 10 years for the remaining damage. The law also deals with the issue of State guarantees for the so-called negative insurance coverage of the insurance undertaking. In order to avoid insurance coverage, the Ministry of Finance and the user of the domestic nuclear device shall regulate the relationship with the contract, which shall, in addition to the specific scope of the guarantee, govern the duration of the contract and the amount of the premium. The transition of the State guarantee system for non-insured coverage depends on the establishment of a situation on the domestic and global insurance market when they are able to protect the nuclear damage of the responsible user under conditions and to the extent set out in the amended Paris Convention. The Ministry of Finance, as the representative of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides the guarantee, must monitor ongoing changes to international conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u183	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Mrs Bredi Pecan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u184	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. At its 22nd meeting on 9 September this year, the Committee on the Environment and Space discussed the proposal for a law on liability for nuclear damage, which the Government sent to the National Assembly in the ordinary legislative procedure. In the introductory explanation of the articles of the bill, the representative of the proposaler, Mr Peter Gasperšič, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Environment and Space, said that the proposed law specifically dealt with the issues of nuclear damage itself and the issues related to liability for such damage. Responsibilities for damage are limited and canalized at the same time. The user of a nuclear device is liable for the damage and the state is subsidised but at the same time original over the amount to be provided by the user. The Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative technical aspect, made a comment on Article 18 of the bill and, in this regard, the Coalition's parliamentary groups prepared their amendments, one also to Article 18. The Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the Council of State supported the bill in its opinion. In the context of the second reading of the draft law in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and on the amendments tabled. Within the time limit set, amendments were tabled by the Group of Members of the Social Democrats, Mr Res, Mr DeSUS and Mr LDS, on 9, 12, as has already been said, also by Articles 18 and 31 of the bill. The Committee adopted all the amendments tabled by the groups. Following a discussion on the individual articles of the draft law and after the discussion and vote on the amendments in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee still voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. On this basis, the text of the amended Draft Law on Liability for Nuclear Damage, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared and we are deciding on them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u185	Thank you. Mrs Pečan, you can stay as a speaker and present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u186	Thank you. I didn't know it was my turn. The Social Democrats' Group supports the Nuclear Damage Liability Act. At the same time, it must be said that on nuclear energy or on electricity generation from dangerous radioactive and toxic nuclear energy, such as uranium or plutonium, the population of Slovenia has already been well adjusted after several decades of living with a more or less normal operating nuclear power plant Krška. Security is very important to us, but we had to put the thought of dangerous energy somewhere in the subconscious, so that in some way for the majority, however, it became self-sustaining. There are areas that are less known which are less aware and must be covered by the Nuclear Damage Liability Act. From this point of view, the proposal for a completely new law of liability for nuclear damage, which we have on our benches today, will be considered irrelevant for the day-to-day. After a few decades, it will thoroughly re-establish the area of responsibility for possible nuclear damage resulting from the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, as it was also a valid old Yugoslav federal legislation after independence, namely the Nuclear Damage Liability Act of the late 1970s, which was based on the original Vienna Convention on Civil Liability of 1963, and the Nuclear Damage Liability Insurance Act. Slovenia has not acceded to the Vienna Convention for several years, but has acceded at the beginning of the new millennium and is committed to the Paris Convention, the Brussels Supplemental Convention and the two 2004 Protocols amending the Convention. The new law will remove the long-standing non-compliance of the Slovenian legal order with the international convention in this area, since the old laws have been enforced, despite the fact that the State of the Republic of Slovenia has already adopted initiatives to sign both protocols that modernise both Conventions in April 2003. Since it is better late than never, the new law will apply instead of the two previous ones mentioned above. Conventions are, by tradition, just a framework filled in by the laws of the acceding countries. The Conventions are principled in nature and do not go into the details that individual countries need to regulate in order to meet their own legal order at the same time. Lawmakers must face details which, in terms of principles, are irrelevant to the proper functioning of the law when it is applied. National law must adequately regulate, for example, a specific system of civil liability for damage and ensure that injured persons are adequately compensated for damage. The Nuclear Damage Liability Act thus redefines the user's liability, which is basically responsible for nuclear damage up to EUR 700 million, the introduction, import and transit of nuclear substances other than nuclear fuel alone, but also radioactive materials used in health care, for research purposes and the like. The country's original responsibility for nuclear damage, if it exceeds EUR 700 million, from damage that exceeds that amount, to the sum of only EUR half-second billion. The difference thus amounts to a maximum of EUR 800 million, of which the State contributes up to 500 million and the other 300 million are covered by the States Parties. Under the rules of procedure, the law redefines the lodging of claims that may be submitted by injured persons as individuals, but may be organised for these purposes: legal person, methods of assessment of damages, rules for the distribution of damages and, last but not least, records of the claims received or partly paid. In the case of the distribution of compensations, it is worth mentioning that in individual cases the insurance undertaking may provide other forms of aid, such as payments of treatment, which must also be duly recorded. However, the State is obliged to guarantee nuclear damage resulting from a threat not covered by the contract as provided for in Article 8 of the Act. The law will apply primarily to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, and application will also apply to all our neighbours, except Austria, as the law also applies to the territories of accessions to the Paris Convention, such as Italy, Germany, France, Great Britain, Belgium, the Netherlands, Scandinavian States, Spain, Portugal, Greece and Turkey, to accessions to the Vienna Convention, all members of the so-called New Europe, except Slovenia and Croatia, countries which do not accede to the Conventions and do not have nuclear installations, and the damage would be caused by an accident in transit through their territory, and other countries that are not acceding to the Paris Convention, but have applicable nuclear legislation based on the same principles as the Paris Convention. Unfortunately, the law will not apply in the territories of most countries of the former Soviet Union, where nuclear accidents are at risk among the highest in the world. The sums provided by the law for compensation are very high for nuclear energy users, i.e. for the country or on its behalf of the operating organisation, and should therefore be carefully looked after at the Krška Nuclear Power Plant in order to avoid the need for funds to be paid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u188	Once again, thank you very much to all present. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe it is right that, in addition to the many safety regulations relating to nuclear energy, a specific system of civil liability for damage is being set up. This proposal deals in particular with those issues for which the competent Conventions refer to a national level. The law provides that the liability of the nuclear device user is limited to EUR 700 million and must be secured. The country is responsible for nuclear damage initially if it exceeds 700 million, up to 1200 and 1,500 million euros. We understand that there is less responsibility for less dangerous nuclear devices, namely EUR 17 million, and for transport or transit of 80 million nuclear substances. The law also provides for the adoption of an intervention law in the event of a nuclear accident if the assessment of the damage exceeds EUR 700 million, which then also lays down rules for the timely payment of compensation. In the SLS Group, we also agree with outdated deadlines, namely 30 years for loss of life and injury and 10 years for the rest of the damage. We also believe that it is right to regulate the State's guarantee of a negative insurance cover and to delay the application of all key provisions, which also have financial implications, until the entry into force of the Protocol to the Paris Convention and the Protocol to the Brussels Supplemental Convention. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will, as we say, support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u190	Thanks again for saying that. We have before us a proposal for a law dealing with issues of nuclear damage itself and with questions related to liability for such damage. Responsibility for nuclear damage is limited, but also channelled. The user of the nuclear device is responsible for this damage. The State responds subsidiaryly but at the same time originally to the amount to be provided by the user. The bill provides for compulsory liability insurance for the user up to EUR 700 million, which is taken over by the Convention. There may also be some other financial guarantee that provides the same protection as the guarantee of liability up to that amount. With regard to the State’s responsibility — between EUR 700 and EUR 1200 million and EUR 1500 million — the proposal provides only that the State must provide such protection, but does not provide for the compulsory insurance of this liability. This obligation is the basis for further appropriate action by the State and decisions on how and when these funds will be provided. Up to the first level, €700 million, saves the damage to the insurance company where the responsible user insured his liability. The proposed solution whereby the insurance undertaking uses, on the basis of an agreement with the State, the Ministry of Finance, procedures and methods for assessing and liquidating claims from the user’s compulsory insurance funds, also to assess and liquidate claims from public funds – up to EUR 1500 million - ensures the uniformity and cost-effectiveness of the procedures. However, public funding will not have to be provided to the State as a whole immediately. On the basis of the assessment of the amount of damage prepared by the Commission within six months of the occurrence of the accident, consisting of representatives of the State on the one hand and representatives of the insurance undertaking and the user on the other, special, most likely interventional, law in addition to the level, manner and dynamics of the drawdown of State resources, also lay down rules on the deferred payment of compensations. This shall take into account the rules governing the distribution of damages, as already regulated by the law. In this respect, an important solution is linked to outdated deadlines. In order to comply with the Convention, it is necessary to set an expiry date of 10 years for property and 30 years for intangible damage. Above all, the last deadline is a long one, and it is a heavy burden for insurance undertakings and a country that is responsible for both subsidiarity and original. The regulation under the proposed law is original as it departs from the established practice of order which does not conform to the principle of equal treatment. The proposed solution also takes into account the possibility of recovery of damage to those who later experience it, not only in the event of a nuclear accident but also in the expiry of the period. Since liability is also limited by height, such damage should be foreseen in advance. The law also deals with the issue of State guarantees for the so-called negative insurance coverage of the insurance undertaking. Since the global insurance market is unable to protect all forms of nuclear damage, as defined by the new convention and taken over in the draft law, and does not exclude nuclear damage arising from terrorist activities and the claims for personal damage shall not expire until 30 years after the occurrence of the nuclear accident, this situation also indirectly affects the Slovenian insurance market, which, despite its own share, re-insurance the rest of the insurance in leading foreign specialised insurance undertakings and is dependent on their available capacity. The Ministry of Finance and Insurance shall regulate the relationship with the contract in order to avoid insurance coverage, which shall, in addition to the specific scope of the guarantee, govern the duration of the contract and the amount of the premium. As can be seen from the review of the law, the amounts of liability and compulsory insurance for users of nuclear devices will increase significantly compared to the current regulation, and the State's liability for possible nuclear damage, which is being extended by the definition of loss of life and physical injury and loss or damage to economic loss, the cost of measures to establish the previous situation in the affected environment, loss of income and the cost of preventive measures. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we expect consistent monitoring of users of nuclear devices as preventive measures reduce the risk of nuclear accident to a minimum. We'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u192	Your Honor! The draft law deals with matters of nuclear damage itself and with matters related to liability for the damage caused. After years of preparation and coordination, two regulations have been adopted which bring European nuclear safety practice into law. However, nuclear safety directives have also been adopted, which have already been covered by nuclear safety legislation, so that no major changes are necessary in this area. Responsibility for nuclear damage is limited, but also channelled. The draft law provides for compulsory liability insurance for the user up to EUR 700 million, which is in line with the Convention's rules. However, in the area of security and insurance, State guarantees must also be included, in particular in the field of protection, but less in the area of compulsory insurance and its liability. In the event of an accident, however, I believe that the State will not avoid and exclude itself from the area of responsibility, even though the draft law determines in some way when these funds will be provided. The applicant explains that the State will not have to provide public funds in full immediately on the basis of an evaluation report, but only within six months of the occurrence of the damage or accident. The specific law will also determine the amount, manner and dynamics of the use of State resources for the payment of compensation. The law also provides for the signature of a contract governing the relationship between the Ministry of Finance and the insurance undertaking, which will also specify the amount of the premium and the duration of the contract. Such a contract already in itself obliges the Ministry of Finance to monitor the changes in international insurance and reinsurance conditions. The proposer shall ensure that the proposed law and its implementation have no financial implications for the state budget. The financial implications would affect the budget only in the event of a nuclear accident, even when the damage would exceed €700 million. As we see, the proposal provided for all possible explanations for the adoption of the law, including the adaptation to the Paris Convention and the Brussels Supplemental Convention. This provides a high financial guarantee to the user, but only if the damage does not exceed the amount set out in the user’s guarantee. A country which is not a member of the Paris Convention cannot become a member of the Brussels Additional Convention. This is Slovenia's interest to include it in both the Convention and the Protocol, of course, with harmonised legislation with convention harmonisation. Such a law introduces a unitaristic approach and covers the entire area of civil liability for nuclear damage. It is a sensitive topic that we have been aware of so far, as the law was very clear in the part where it speaks of insurance that the inspector must stop operating immediately if it is found that there is no insurance. The nuclear power plant is in itself an object that requires a lot of attention and professional supervision, so I was surprised by the Commission's statement, which expressed concern about the allegations in the report, which was recorded in the framework of the regular renovation of the nuclear power plant, that there was a high burden and occasional pressure on staff, which led to an over-average number of abnormal events, which were also the result of human errors. This is supposed to be a larger amount of work at certain times, which has overloaded a number of limited professional staff. The Fund's funds are sufficient to build a warehouse and are also intended to finance the decommissioning of a nuclear power plant, but the question is, of course, whether all these funds will be sufficient when necessary, if the funds for purpose will become unintended, and whether there will be concerns about the poor real-economies. The law is basically well founded and needed, so we will also support it in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u194	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Fellow Members and fellow Members, Mr Minister with the team, a nice greeting on my behalf as well. The bill regulates part of the legal and reparation consequences of what we all wish would never happen. These are events that radiantly endanger people and the environment, or nuclear accidents, as we usually call them in the conversational language. In one definition, nuclear and radiation safety is the whole of regulations and standards, project solutions, operating instructions, employee safety culture, training, state and administrative bodies and other factors contributing to preventing the release of radioactive substances from a nuclear facility or device into the environment. Nuclear and radiation security, of course, is not absolute; terrible accidents in the past remind us of this fact all the time, so it is essential that we have, as a modern country and a society that uses nuclear technology in various areas, a legally correct and modern area of responsibility for possible nuclear damage. The current legal regime for liability for nuclear damage, which was adopted in the previous country, is mainly based on the Vienna Convention on Civil Liability for Nuclear Damage. The bill is due to the fact that in recent years the international legal system of this area has undergone a number of changes and the fact that Slovenia is no longer a party to the Vienna Convention. The law is therefore based on modern convention rules. In the Liberal Democracy, we feel we need to highlight at least three solutions that deviate from what we have seen so far. Firstly, the definition of nuclear damage is widespread; secondly, the limitation period for the limitation of the right to compensation for loss of life and injury is extended from the previous 10 to 30 years from the date of the nuclear accident and thirdly, there are significantly higher amounts for liability and compulsory liability insurance. At the same time, marriage itself raises the following question. At the meeting of the parent committee, the representative of the Nuclear Pool of GIZ, which protects and re-insures nuclear dangers, warned that the Slovenian and global insurance industry simply cannot provide certain criteria. We therefore want to explain in some way today from the representatives of the Government what this fact means in connection with Article 26, which requires the Inspector to temporarily prohibit the operation of a nuclear device, if not valid, under the law of the underlying insurance, and in conjunction with Article 31, which provides for the application of certain articles of the law. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support this so-called Convention Law, which deals with nuclear damage issues and issues related to liability for damage caused.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u195	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Period of the day - This is a second defensive proposal for a law on the placement of spatial regulations in public spaces. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr. Žarnić. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u196	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is my great pleasure that we have come to the moment when I can explain to you this extremely important law, which I hope will help in the future to address the consequences that we are experiencing these days. The law began to be prepared in spring 2009 on the basis of the mandate of the Government and the analysis carried out among the participants in the preparation of the State Spatial Plans. Initially, it consisted only of the planning of so-called line facilities and was extended to all spatial arrangements of State importance on the basis of the comments made in the first interdepartmental hearing, or to express geometrically, punctually and flat-rately in addition to lines. Comprehensive arrangements for the DNP preparation process with the simultaneous implementation of the CPVO and PSC procedures, resulting in a spatial act that is already being assessed, which burdens the further stages of the investment and allows European funds to be acquired immediately after the adoption of the DN. The next objective is the coordinated and proactive functioning of all participants in the VAT preparation process with more clearly defined roles and responsibilities, which should result in the rationalisation and increased transparency of the VAT preparation process, thus allowing time savings. Rationalisation of certain administrative procedures is one of the following objectives related to the placement of spatial arrangements of State importance in the space. These are geodetic procedures, border arrangements, parcels, decommissioning procedures and evidence of the right to build. This is also a goal as a transition to the new real estate valuation system needed to carry out the planned investments. The proposed arrangement is based on already establishing a mass valuation of real estate on a systematic, reference and objective basis and aims to ensure objective and uniform valuation of real estate. Given the arrangements so far, there are quite a few differences. The initiation of the procedure for the preparation of the VAT, acquisition, analysis of guidelines and data before the decision on the preparation of the VAT is taken; a spatial conference as a permanent working body of the space regulators is introduced. In this law, we will also see a synchronisation of the CPVO procedure with the planning phase and confirmation of the chosen variant in the Government; the planning of the certified variant at the level of the idea project and the implementation of the PSC will be more detailed; permits will be issued for placing in the space as findings related to the drawing up of European funds; the deadlines for geodetic and decommissioning procedures will be significantly shorter; a set of documents will be expanded to demonstrate the right to build. The new real estate valuation system for the purposes of their acquisition will also be part of this law. In fact, the law excludes the preparation of State spatial plans from the existing system under the CFSP plan, but there is already a separation line between the national and local spatial planning levels. With the extension of matter to all spatial arrangements of national importance, we intended to make only appropriate changes and additions to the CFSP plan, but this was not possible due to the other substance of the law. And that's why we have this marriage ahead of us. During the drafting of the law, the ILO, as the holder of its preparation, examined in detail the comments of the municipalities, their organisations, and we also examined the comments of the municipalities in detail and prepared written opinions for them. We believe that the municipalities have no reduced task and importance in the preparation of the VAT compared to the ZPN plan, but a special role has been given to the municipalities and the number of provisions governing the participation of the municipalities is significantly higher. In addition, we have prepared amendments that increase or strengthen the role of the congregations that have been adopted on the committee. With a view to speeding up the space, the law introduces certain specificities with regard to certain administrative procedures. It is a border management procedure, a partiality procedure, which is regulated by the Real Estate Regulation Act, a disqualification procedure, an institution of the right to build and also an area of the deposit of a field of rights. Solutions are still in accordance with the Constitution [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u197	Mr. Minister, [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u198	and necessary for acceleration. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u199	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Mrs Pecan, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u200	Thank you. You must be tired of it, but I have to say this. At its 22nd meeting, the Committee on Environment and Space considered the proposal for a law on the placing of spatial arrangements of State importance in a space sent by the Government to the National Assembly in the ordinary legislative procedure. I would like to avoid these formal works, and I would like to say, I would like to read what she said at the meeting itself, and what we heard from representatives, I will say, the associations of architects and other experts in the field of space regulation, so I would say that the Law and Law Service through its representative has made a general comment to the Law and Law Service on how to regulate one segment of social regulation with two systemic laws. In addition, it highlighted its comments made on certain articles of the draft law, for which no appropriate amendments were proposed and the proposed solutions in the legislative text were added. The Committee then adopted the amendment to Article 37, which was the result of the legislative and legal service proposal. It took full account of its comments, but did not take into account the comments on border management procedures or the recording of the regulated border in Article 44, the limitation of the grounds for lodging a complaint against the decision in Article 45, the manner of interference with property rights in Article 52, and the solutions concerning evidence of the right of construction in Article 54. The Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council has supported the law in its opinion, but at the meeting of the Committee, the president highlighted the difficulties in placing spatial arrangements of local and regional importance that go beyond the interests of individual municipalities and therefore the Commission expects the Ministry of Environment and Space to approach the preparation of an appropriate legislative act as soon as possible to place spatial arrangements of regional and local importance in the space. He highlighted the inadequate role of municipalities in participating in the preparation of State spatial solutions. Members also expressed their concerns in the debate on Articles 1 and 2 of the draft law, members of the Committee, that the proposed law concerns all spatial arrangements of State importance, since it was originally envisaged that the law would be only a special act for line infrastructure facilities. The question was raised whether this law simplifies and reduces the procedures for the preparation of State spatial plans and the placement in the premises for these facilities, which was intended for the adoption of a special law. It was also said that, given that some of the proposed solutions in the proposed law would nevertheless contribute to the acceleration of the procedures, the proposal for a law should be adopted. Members are expected to contribute to a more consistent consideration of the expected deadlines for space regulators. Representatives of the Chamber of Architecture and Space of Slovenia supported the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy, the Faculty of Architecture, the Faculty of Biotechnology, the Department of Landscape Architecture, the Faculty of Philosophy, the Department of Geography of the University of Ljubljana, the Association of Urbanists and Spatial Planners of Slovenia, the Association of Landscape Architects of Slovenia, the Association of Geodets of Slovenia, the Institute of Space Policy and the Institute of Spatial Culture of Trajekt presented their common position at the board meeting that the adoption of this law would constitute another step towards the collapse of the system of comprehensive space regulation in Slovenia. They therefore propose that we approach a comprehensive overhaul of the existing legal framework on space regulation, which was also one of the conclusions of the Council of State Time for changes in the regulation of the premises organised in February 2010. The representative of the Engineering Chamber of Slovenia, however, said that they were aware of the necessity of adopting the proposed law and were therefore in favour of it. The Committee adopted all amendments of the coalition's parliamentary groups, with the exception of Articles 37, 62 and 69 of the draft law, which became irrelevant by adopting the amendments of the Committee to those three articles. The Committee itself proposed amendments to the thirteenth articles and, of course, adopted them. After the vote on the amendments, he voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended draft law on the placing of spatial arrangements of State importance in the area in which the amendments adopted are included and which we now have in consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u201	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u202	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister with a team! We have before us a proposal for a law on the placing of spatial arrangements of State importance in space or, as it was originally called, a law on the placement of line objects in space. This is a law whose preparation began in the spring of 2009, and it is a hard-to-see law in which we have placed considerable hopes to simplify and speed up the placement procedures and further procedures for obtaining building permits in spatial arrangements of State importance, primarily in line facilities. The main part of the law is the process of drawing up State spatial plans that plan spatial arrangements of State importance, focusing on the synchronisation of this procedure with the procedures for a comprehensive assessment of environmental and nature impacts. As a novelty, the law introduces a permit to place these facilities and networks in a space as an instrument which is also intended to accelerate the absorption of European funds, further addresses certain issues relating to temporary measures for insurance, border management, land plotting in the area of State spatial plans and also the acquisition of property necessary for the execution of individual facilities. As regards the area of property acquisition and the rights to implement the spatial arrangements planned by the State Spatial Plans, the law originally regulates the way in which property values are determined and compensation for damage caused by the acquisition of real estate and the rights exercised on them. The law was practically amended in all articles during the debate at the Committee on the Environment and Space. It has been pointed out, in particular the professions, to the non-primary problem of the law, that it interferes with the system of regulation of premises, in the Law on the regulation of premises and in the Law on the Construction of Objects, and it has also been pointed out that there is uncertainty as to whether the finality or legality of individual decisions and documents is applicable. The initiative for marriage was, last but not least, the view that it will address the placement of line facilities, where we all have in mind mainly roads and railways, where we are most lagging behind with spatial plans. When considering the law, however, we find that it now allows for the placement of anything that is defined to be in national interest. In the initial phase, the law on the placement of larger line infrastructure facilities in the space was called the law, which was the basic purpose of adopting and expediting this law. In the form we have now before us, we doubt that it brings solutions that will simplify and shorten procedures. In addition to the law, it is necessary to change the mindset of ministries that these spatial documents should also be worked on and accepted. We will not oppose the adoption of this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u204	Thank you very much again, Mr Vice President, Mr Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have repeatedly asked a question or discussed the problem of placing line or infrastructure facilities in the room because of the problems we have in this area, but we do not know exactly whether we have them because of legislation or mainly because the country is completely unprepared or uninterested in new projects. In fact, we do not have any infrastructure facilities prepared and placed in the room today, to put it mildly. We wonder whether it is the legislation that is to blame, or whether it is to blame, that all investments in this area must now be stopped. Somehow we do not know if this law will now bring any solutions that will not adversely affect the regulation of the premises on the one hand, we do not know if it will bring about anything positive in the placement, given what has been said many times that it is now being put into law all the things that someone has remembered. We always talk about the law that has prepared itself for a new law that will solve all problems or most problems, and then, at the end or in a few years or a year, two uses of each law find that everything is wrong again or that it does not solve anything. So in the SLS Group, we ask ourselves whether we have enough expertise in Slovenia to put something completely new on the agenda every few years, so that we are generally a little concerned about spatial legislation. As far as this proposal is concerned, if you ensure that it will in some positive way accelerate the placement of transport, energy infrastructure in particular, in order to achieve the objective, and then also that what we have warned the SLS Group for a year and a half, and that it will promise the Minister, then of course we will also support this bill. In addition to the law, however, we believe that it is necessary to change the thinking of individual ministries and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to show willingness to prepare investments in a timely manner, if we want good not only for construction, but for the Slovenian economy and the country as a whole. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u206	Thank you for your words, Mr Vice President, once again for everyone's nice greeting. We have before us a proposal for a law that represents the procedure for drawing up State spatial plans. This is a process by which those regulatory procedures are planned, focusing on the integrated finalisation of this procedure by means of procedures for a comprehensive environmental impact assessment and environmental impact assessment according to the regulations governing environmental protection and nature conservation. The law introduces quite a few innovations: one permit to place these facilities and networks in a space as an instrument intended to draw on European funds, and another deals with certain questions concerning temporary measures to secure space, regulate borders and land plots in the area of State spatial plans and acquire property and rights on them that are necessary for the execution of the facilities and networks planned with them. These are areas governed by other rules, but were known as key to more effective adoption and implementation of State spatial plans and the placement of planned facilities and networks into the premises with them, so they decided at the Ministry to re-establish some of the solutions to the proposed legislation. As regards the area of property acquisition and the rights to implement the spatial arrangements planned by the State Spatial Plan, the law originally regulates the method of assessing the value of real estate and the compensation for damage and other costs. The arrangements are intended to achieve more efficient preparation and implementation of State spatial plans while adequately protecting all public interests for which they are responsible and protecting the rights of all parties involved or affected. In the DeSUS Group, we supported the bill in the hope that the procedure under the new law would be faster than it was before, as the proposaler had also announced. That is why, as has already been said, we will also support the proposal. The bill was based on problems in putting a line object of social importance into space, such as rail or energy infrastructure. Its adoption is also included in the Slovenian exit strategy 2010-2013 – key objectives of putting infrastructure facilities of state importance into a space that is more efficient in drawing on European funds. With regard to the acquisition of real estate, the law seeks to systematically regulate the scope of the valuation of property values, real estate rights, damages and costs using uniform criteria. The real estate assessment solutions remained on the basis of the current issue on the ground, which have a systematic regular assessment of real estate, which results in both delays and higher prices and unequal treatment of real estate owners. The requirements of real estate owners are such that the State is forced to restrict them by law on the basis of objective and uniform methods that will contribute to real property valuation. The Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia has been monitoring the real estate market for five years and has data on market prices or real value real estate that can benefit assessors. As has already been said, we support the proposed solutions in the Group of Members, as the procedures for placing spatial arrangements of state importance in the area are very long. Of course, we expect that the Government will also draw up appropriate solutions in the area of problems: e.g. the procedures for land acquisition, disposing and evaluation of land; the placement of spatial arrangements of local and regional importance, e.g. sewerage, water supply, line facilities that go beyond the interests of individual municipalities. In the DeSUS Group, we view as a good solution the reintroduction of the Institute of Spatial Conference, as it plays a key role in better linking state-owned space regulators who need to coordinate and agree on the necessary activities and resolve conflicts of public interest. In the parliamentary group, we hope that the adoption of the law will help to prevent situations where one municipality is hampering the placement of an infrastructure facility that is important for the wider local environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors are here! This is a law which has been thoroughly debated on the Committee and against which it has in some way not convinced that there is a need for change, since the representatives of the various institutions involved in the debate have highlighted different positions which have also called for consideration, whether this law is really needed, in the belief that the proposal for a law introduces a systemic confusion, and there are opinions that good practice and project approaches are being introduced. Of course, it is expected that when a new law is passed, it offers improvements and simplifications that will be agreed upon by most of those who will be users of this law and most of those who participate in the drafting of the law, which is not perceived in this case. This is a law that has been being drawn up since 2009, which is also claimed by the applicant to be a difficult-to-expected law that would simplify and accelerate the procedures for placing in the premises and obtaining building permits in the spatial arrangements of state importance. As a novelty, the law introduces permits to place the facility and the network in space as an instrument also when European funds are drawn up. The law also specialises in certain solutions under sectoral legislation, including how to determine the value of immovable property and compensation for damage to rights. As we can see, the law in question provides solutions for easier and more efficient placement of projects into space, but the dilemma remains that spatial regulation is governed by two systemic laws – spatial planning and the proposed law – which produces confusion and confusion in the legal order. Of course, we all agree that the Ministry will draw up appropriate solutions that will allow for more efficient and easier placement in the area of both local and regional importance, as this would also resolve any misunderstanding concerning several local communities, which are not always at the discretion of the participants in the project. In recent years, marriage has changed many times, but it has never been written down in such a way as to solve the problem of space in its entirety. The law was expected to deal primarily with line and energy facilities, where it has often been stuck because of a misinterpretation, and this law saves everything that we already have in some way resolved in other laws. The Ministry recognises that they started with the idea of putting line infrastructure facilities into space, and those solutions that were already somehow adapted at the time, but as provided by the proposed law for State importance facilities and spatial arrangements, nothing has changed significantly, given that nothing changes. Surely the proposaler was trying to make the law acceptable and the government's first idea was to prepare a special law only for line objects, but they say that only line objects would actually break the system. But we'd have two laws under P.P. or special law. The applicant explains that the law is of state importance and is in line with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, that it is in line with the generally applicable principles of international law and with the treaties which bind the Republic of Slovenia, so we will not oppose the law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u210	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister with fellow Members, fellow Members, fellow Members! Spatial planning as part of space management is a professionally difficult and open-ended activity for public co-decision. Its scope is exceptional, from setting general guidelines at national level to urban planning and the adoption and implementation of spatial implementing acts in municipalities. As we adopted the last novel of the Spatial Planning Act at the end of last year, we stressed our expectation in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that a thorough analysis of the whole should be carried out, by regulating the space connected, legislation and by systematically ensuring the rationality and effectiveness of comprehensive regulation of the area at the national, future regional and, of course, local level. So, with a broad professional and political consensus, prepare a new law. This is not the case, of course, since only part of spatial planning relating to the preparation and adoption of the State Spatial Plan is governed by the existing spatial planning regime. The proposed law also does not constitute a special arrangement for spatial planning, but rather a system-wide regulation of part of an area already covered by the legislation in force. Therefore, in principle and in the legal system, such interference with existing legislation is likely to have to be opposed. From a pragmatic point of view, however, the proposed law is, in some ways, necessary. It is simply not possible to deny the Government's assessment that a more efficient and, in particular, faster procedure for the preparation and adoption of spatial acts should be put in place, which would connect and direct with its solutions the functioning of spatial regulators, while at the same time containing a logical sequence of all the phases necessary for the preparation of the final State spatial plan, particularly in relation to the procedures for a comprehensive environmental impact assessment and environmental impact assessment under the Environmental Protection Act or the Nature Conservation Act and the procedures under the Property Registration Act. There can also be no opposition to a solution that should help to make European funds more efficient. On the basis of the adopted regulation on the State Spatial Plan, a permit will be issued for accommodation in a space that will satisfy the requirement for European funds to be drawn up. Following the regulation so far, the environmental impact assessment procedure was carried out only in the process of issuing a building permit and not in the process of drawing up a spatial act which was the basis for the authorisation and therefore it was only possible to obtain European funds by obtaining a building permit. The main part of the law, however, is the process of drawing up State spatial plans that plan these spatial arrangements, with a view to maximising the synchronisation of this process, the procedures for a comprehensive environmental impact assessment and environmental impact assessments according to the regulations governing environmental protection and nature conservation, which we welcome in the LDS. While the law is mainly procedural in nature, it also provides some substantive solutions in areas governed by other regulations, it has been recognised as crucial for the more effective adoption and implementation of State spatial plans or the placement of planned facilities and networks in space. These still apply to sensitive land acquisition issues or decommissioning procedures, where legal solutions are based on the principle of the dominant public interest. However, in the part governing the valuation of the value of real estate due to the decommissioning and limitation of property right or service right, the principle of fair and equal treatment of real estate owners and the objective assessment of the value of real estate is based on the principle of fair and equal treatment of real estate owners. We support these basic principles in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. In the LDS, we decided to support a law that would make it more logical and, above all, faster adoption of State spatial plans or placement of planned facilities and networks into space.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u211	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Silva Črnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u212	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Hello, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The law regulates the issue of placing spatial arrangements of State importance in space and represents in fact a very important and key law in the system of laws that we have adopted on the Committee on Environment and Space. The main part of the law is the process of drawing up the State spatial plans that plan the spatial arrangements, focusing on the integrated synchronisation of this process by means of procedures for a comprehensive environmental impact assessment and environmental impact assessments according to the regulations governing environmental protection and nature conservation. As a novelty, the law introduces a permit to place these facilities and networks in premises as an instrument intended to draw on European funds. In addition, certain questions are addressed regarding temporary measures to ensure the regulation of premises, the regulation of borders and land parcels in the area of State spatial plans, the acquisition of properties necessary for the execution of facilities and networks, their planning and certain questions concerning agricultural operations in their area. It is very important to stress that the law to the extreme limit also rationalises administrative procedures, and this is what makes sense in this law. As an important novelty, although it has already been regulated by law, it introduces a permanent body, a space conference represented by representatives of all key operators of space regulation. The Conference will meet once a month on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. We miss and expect an in-depth system solution within the Social Democrats Group, which will strategically address the extremely complex and complex area of spatial planning. At the same time, we believe that it would be prudent to establish a central strategic body to systematically regulate matters and address this complex and important area in an integrated manner. We believe that the establishment of spatial planning could be managed and coordinated through the two most important levels of interest, local and national and, of course, regional. The law is an interim solution for a transitional period, not a definitive one that has been pointed out by all arbitrators for many years, and also within our Group of Members. The law lacks more binding mechanisms to negotiate and coordinate between all operators of space regulation. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the law and amendments, but we expect action by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which will raise spatial planning to the level of actual planning and do not put out the most pressing and acute spatial problems. How important spatial planning is and how complex this spatial planning is, in fact, we can see today every day, right next to these floods, and how important it is to actually house all objects, as well as linear ones, and how fatal it can affect the fate of people. The amendments, as well as the whole law, will be supported by the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u213	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 9. 2010 The amendments are tabled under the four articles of the law. We are moving on to the debate on Article 39 and the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to this Article. Anybody want a word? Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Let me mention in the introduction that many, especially in local communities, were eager to expect such a similar law, but we had in mind that it would not be as narrowly oriented as the title of this law itself says. And we will see that even today, when we accept the amendments, I will support this amendment, and the local communities or congregations are not particularly thronged. Why were we expecting what this marriage would bring? Because, as mentioned in the introduction, we have estimated that this is an extremely important law. And it really is an important marriage. However, it has slightly bypassed the local community, so now it is not surprising if at least some of us express some concerns about this or at least disappointment, because there is no similar possibility of placing spatial arrangements at the local level. The municipalities are now reduced to be able to give an opinion on state spatial plans, but we have not experienced what we wanted to help us. The second point that was noted in the Minister's address was the lack of recommendations and professional consensus that were listed in the previous Act, the Law on Geodetic Activities. This is where it goes down. It is said that what has already been said several times today is something that arouses our concern. And later you will see when I quote some of the applicant's words that this concern is probably justified. Why am I talking so much about these local communities? Because the country, when preparing this law on the placement of spatial arrangements of State importance, has set some very important objectives. The first objective is to make planning more effective. What we're supposed to want in the congregations is more than effective planning, and now we're not here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u215	Mr Rezman, my colleagues will probably warn me that we are discussing the amendment to Article 39.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u216	This amendment speaks of the opinion given by the municipalities. Now I'm talking about congregations and where we feel handicapped. The second thing I would like to say is that if one of the fundamental objectives is to effectively draw on the resources of the State, the resources of the European Union, this is the same for local communities. What difference does the local community have between these objectives and the country? I don't think she should be. The third thing that the country has seen as important is that it can ensure public interest where there are major problems, including through coercive measures. This is not just happening in motorways, it is also happening in many other planned projects and interventions that are planned in a narrow area. And the government has taken this opportunity to determine what the public interest is and we do not have this option in local communities. And that I will not say too much about what gives me the feeling that our interests in the local community have not been taken too much into account for a long time, let me say that it seems to me that we are somehow placed at the brink if I read what the Government has written in the comments. She wrote that the procedure for the preparation of spatial acts, i.e. State spatial plans, would in principle take place faster and without unnecessary congestion. The law must provide this but priori, not in principle, then it will or will not. And whether or not it will, then again I quote, says in one other part, where it says that in about two years, if everyone gets involved and gives priority to national location plans, such location plans will also be adopted. I do not think that this can be written with the conditioners, whether those who give consent, guidance and these are ministries, different authorities, and we will now depend on whether or not they will do what they expect. This has not been the case so far, so this law was needed to resolve it and it would no longer be placed on probation but to give someone the assurance that this will be done so that we will be truly effective in planning, in drawing on funds and also in implementing these projects. And let me conclude, this would also be useful for local communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on Article 39? I'm opening the application, but please, when you sign up, talk about the article we're discussing. So far there hasn't been one word about the amendment. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to join Mr Rezman's debate, even though you say it's not about the amendment, but it is. It is the role of the congregations in this law. It would be right for the state to have a national spatial plan. These State spatial plans are, in my opinion, state-specific spatial plans and should have regional spatial plans and municipal spatial plans. We now have only municipal spatial plans, and very few are adopted under the new law. With regard to the comparison of these municipal spatial plans, we have a strategy for the spatial development of the Republic of Slovenia, which we know what it is and what it means to be a utopia and a fog. We now accept municipal spatial plans, we have adopted some of them, when we adopt these state spatial plans or detailed spatial plans, according to my congregation, they give only opinions or consensus as it used to be. This is said to be a state-wide detailed spatial plan completely overrun by a municipal spatial plan, for which the municipalities had a lot of work, a lot of effort and financial resources. And practically reverses the municipal spatial plan. So much for that. I think that we should systematically, as already mentioned today, also the Legislative and Legal Service has stressed that we have two system laws regulating one area and that this is not right. I think we should complete the plan or the CFSP so that what was taken into account in the UREP in the area of decommissioning in the ULN plan and extended to the area of municipalities. The municipalities also have very important projects in the public interest for which they should be able to acquire land or plots, as is the case with the State. It was likely then in the process itself that it would not be sufficient for the state to adopt a law on the placement of line objects and then extended to point and flat-wall facilities, as Mr Minister said. I then wonder, given that municipalities are excluded from participating in this law or that it is not possible to influence whether certain medo-Chinese line or flat-rate projects, such as the construction of medo-Chinese sewerage or plumbing, could become state spatial plans. Even now we have had cases where the State’s spatial plans could be run by congregations, taken over and practically driven on behalf of the country. Is this where it's supposed to be? It is likely that this law will have to have other sub-laws or regulations, rules for implementation only, and then obtain benefits or land for these inter-ministerial projects. If the State Spatial Plan is provided, will the State provide some technical assistance, as we know it in cohesion projects and with these funds, to pay for the preparation of these State Spatial Plans? A lot of strangers are opening up to me in the implementation of this law. The municipalities are here, as you stated on one occasion, that in about two years such a law would also be passed for the congregations to turn into congregations. I think that, given the cohesion projects that the congregations are preparing, there will be no longer time to wait two years, but that we will have to solve such cases in some way. Otherwise these projects will not be implemented in time. However, as this amendment says, to bind myself now to the amendment, the congregations are exempt here from some great influence in the so-called state-owned detailed spatial plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u220	Dear debater, thank you for your comments. I'm very welcome to explain something because I've run out of time before. I have mentioned several times that this is just the first law in a series of laws that is supposed to completely regulate the area that you are interested in in in these comments. The next one, perhaps not entirely logical, would be the law on regulating the premises at municipal level. I think my colleagues here, who seem to have done well with these positive views of yours, are going to start working on it tomorrow. The third in this area will be the Law on Spatial Action and above all the bill on space management. When we have all these four laws, those laws that have become unnecessary in this area will come into new laws. Now, here's a comment on cohesion. See, despite existing imperfect legislation, 46% of cohesion funds for the period 2007-2013 have already been activated and do not fall so much due to laws as due to complaints by operators. And I don't think your concern for cohesion being so severe is as bad as it is. But I would have made it clear with such laws that things were moving faster, and I agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word on Article 39? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Article 39 and move on to Article 62 and to the amendment to this Article tabled by the SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS. I'm giving you time to report to the debate. Mr. Peter Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, Mr. Secretary-General with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. I must say, the text of this amendment somehow casts doubt on me. In fact, there are some exceptions to this provision, as it now states, if I understand exactly when this new law refers to the provisions of the original Spatial Planning Act. Thus, there is now a case of an exception in one provision, as stated in the explanatory memorandum or, in fact, a little detail, and I ask, perhaps the applicants will further explain, because the explanation is very short. In short, in this law on the placement of spatial arrangements of State importance into space, they are now written in this amendment, i.e. exceptions, specifics or alternatives, which are addressed only under the Spatial Planning Act. Further to the amendment to the next article, and then to return to it, there is once again a specificity that points back to the Spatial Planning Act. This is what I am asking the motioners for an amendment because we are then actually touching this substance, which is also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, and I do not think it has been well answered. The legal and legal service, as my colleague has already said before me, says that we are from one system law, this is the law on spatial planning, now we have a new, other system law, which in fact causes a lot of confusion. And these are, in fact, a number of professional organisations that were present on the Committee on Environment and Space, who wanted to say that, in fact, this goal, which is good and which we are not against, is said to be placed in space as quickly as possible, can now also be confused. And it seems to me that this amendment, in fact, suggests back that the things that have begun to run under the spatial planning law, are now a little bit of a reference to the new law, this is the one that is here today in the debate, and with this amendment, as the proposaler says, some alternatives and specifics can be allowed, and I am afraid that this is actually creating a systemic confusion. This has been pointed out by the Legislative-Legal Service, that I will not be warned by the President to interfere with the law itself if we go for a purpose, but what then with debauchery, I do not think this objective has been achieved here. I fear that instead of a goal that is good and we have expected it, and we will also count on it in the opposition. Because whenever we asked how the roads would be placed in space as quickly as possible, we received an answer when this law came to the table, that would happen. Now I am afraid that there is actually some confusion, that in fact people in the ministry will have the most problems, when they do not know which law actually needs to be respected, the law on spatial planning or this new law, and instead of being faster, the procedures will continue. I think that this amendment then actually opens up when it shows how many procedures should go forward as usual. I think there's this ambiguity here. I hope that the motions for the amendment will be able to respond to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Minister Roko Žarnic asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u224	Thank you very much. The matter may not be sufficiently explained in the explanations, but the purpose of this amendment is not to confuse it. The purpose of this law is to ensure that new procedures follow this law, which is clear. But the problem is where some start procedures at different stages and where they would like to, and this is the purpose of the law, to come into these proceedings, to the new law, and to speed them up. Thus, these amendments give examples of how to act in this transition. By the way, you're driving in one timetable, you're going in the other order, you're not in the middle of a collision, you're going to have to tell me where to put it. And there will be no confusion in the Ministry, for those experts who will face it have just participated in the preparation of these provisions. So it's about eliminating the confusion in the procedures that have already been initiated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I see a desire to discuss it. Here you go! Who's gonna answer the debate? You will have your word, Mr Jerovšek. Mr. Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that. Since my colleague Presecnik has already said that very few of these state spatial plans are currently being drawn up, I would like to know how many of these state spatial plans are currently in progress. There's probably not a lot of them. In case the Ministry knows. However, it seems fair to me that procedures are not going according to the old law, because it is such a slow procedure that a new law is included in certain stages and is being followed by a new law. In certain cases, however, there is likely to be some damage when a new law is included at a certain stage and follows the new law. I think that the Ministry should examine what projects are and at what stage this new law will be included in the resolution or in the continuation of the same procedure. I find it somewhat controversial because I know little about this subject that in certain cases there would be no constitutional complaints or constitutional complaints concerning property rights affecting private property. Did the Ministry properly check this aspect? When the mayors had for several years wanted such a law to be passed also for the municipalities, the answer was always that we had to change the constitution, that in our constitution property rights were so secure that whatever we did, we would have a problem with the Constitutional Court and with the unconstitutionality of this law. Only Dars had such a law, which was a special law, where he could go through the emergency procedure and there was no problem. Will it be the same under this law? Is there any fear that this law would not withstand constitutional judgment?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u227	Mr. Jerovšek, did you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u228	Thanks again. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! Every time we get to the table of amendments relating to the amended article in the law and that amendment is twice the size of the basic article and signed with the coalition parties, we need to be careful. In such a case, it is known that there are some intentions in the back that the situation is such that it is necessary to go larpurlartism, a word for word. And here's the same situation. There is no need to be an expert on urbanization. Nor do I deal with this area, but, Mr Minister, it would be right to say here very clearly that my colleagues have found very correctly that the purpose of the law as a whole and in particular those articles, which should be transitional provisions in my opinion, is to create not only systemic confusion but also legal confusion. Although you denied this, tell the truth that the situation in the country is such that you are well aware that we no longer need these accommodations, because for a time there will be no more investments of state importance as long as this government rules. To make a smoke screen before the people, as if the ministries were active, as if something was going to happen, but in fact this is a very extensive amendment, which relates to how the new law will continue proceedings, explicitly only in the function that lawyers will always be able to find a justification that nothing can be done to reverse some procedure, to bring it to trial and so on. Well, for God's sake, let's not be so naive, or at least we're not in the opposition to see what this is all about! Not to tell that metaphor that every person knows that if something is being hidden, it seems that it is only a function, that the government seems to be very active, the essence and the actual state wants to hide. And in reality, I believe you are in a difficult situation. Ministers, who in these areas have sometimes engaged in investment, know that the government has borrowed a lot of money, that money is not in place, has sunk somewhere, and that it is virtually impossible for the next two years to invest anything. We see that all items, which are, some roads, objects relating to investments in the field, are postponed for at least two years. And we don't have to deal with some law and law changes here, and we talk a lot if you already know in advance that this is not going to be possible, and you probably don't even want to have these accommodations in the room, because then the voters would ask you if we're doing this just because something is supposed to happen, or if it's going to come from something. See, a similar situation, Mr Minister, was last year when the government coalition took all the money for development to the defence ministry and Mrs Minister said very frankly, "We are shutting down the Slovenian Army." It was somewhere in September. This was the situation. It's not much better now. But she made it very clear that the government has taken all the money, that they don't even have to pay by the end of the year and stop working. That's what they say. The military hasn't been training anymore. They haven't been doing anything because it costs. It's similar here. I am also afraid if officials and experts are to push papers just to make it appear that something is going on, that only additional costs will arise. Frankly, make it clear that this government is no longer able to drive, it will not drive them, say this now before the local elections to people, that they will replace such an incompetent government as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, please explain the content of this article and this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u230	Thank you very much. You gave me an interesting point. Look, he's currently in preparation for about 100 DN, 10-15 of them heading toward the end. So 80% of this is going to go under the new law. We know, we have always been criticised that the VATes last years, years and years. And now, even if there is no investment at this point, and if we pass this law, these DNs will be just as soon as the new government is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Lah, please. But I'm really asking if you can talk about the article.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u232	Just a specific question: Is it possible that in the case of a municipal detailed spatial plan led by a few municipalities for several municipalities, let's say 10, such as a waste management centre, because we know that it is very difficult to get to land, because we do not have a regional spatial plan, because we do not have regional spatial plans? Will such an example be possible under this law, or is it a sewer network or a plumbing?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u233	Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? [[Not yet.]] Anyone else want a word on Article 62 and the amendment? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on the amendment and Article 62. We are moving on to the debate on Article 63 and the amendment to this article tabled by the SD, Reallys, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on Article 63. We turn to Article 69 and the amendment to this article, which has been tabled by the SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS. Mr. Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u234	Thank you very much, again. Here I would like to touch on the explanation that has been submitted to this amendment by the motioners, this is the parliamentary groups of the coalition. The last sentence states in explanation, "the proposal of the law does not fully cover the specifics of land acquisition for the construction of public rail infrastructure, with which the investor meets in practice in the development of the second track project Koper – Divača". This is a deletion of certain articles and of the law on the regulation of certain issues relating to the construction of the railway line in the direction of Puconca – Hodoš – the state border and the addition of the second track of the Koper – Divac railway. Simply put, the law on the placement of spatial objects in the space repeals a certain article of the special law on the regulation of certain issues relating to the construction of the second track Koper – Divaca and of course Puconci – Hodoš, but more current is Koper – Divaca. And now here's the question to the proposer: isn't this law, about the placement of objects, of state importance, in a space such that it will also save the acquisition of land? The proposers of this amendment say that this specific construction law should not be deleted because this law does not regulate the specifics of land acquisition for the construction of public railway infrastructure. But the very first purpose of this law, which was originally referred to as the law on the placement of line objects in space, was to speed up this part of the acquisition of land, decommissioning, etc. Now I wonder why the applicants demanded that what the Government, as the drafter of the law, should remain. It is said that a special marriage is still necessary. So it means that, in fact, we will come to the end of these solutions, that when high-powered railway lines need to be placed in space, it is said in the fifth and tenth corridor, in the list of state spatial plans, unfortunately, apart from the second track from Kopra to Divac, it will probably be necessary for some specific land law to regulate this specificity. The applicant clearly noted that this law on the placement of state facilities in the premises was also lacking. I really want to know where the reasons were, in fact, where the placement in the premises for these facilities was, obviously, something was omitted, or some specificity, which was, in fact, important and the initial purpose of this law, had been omitted. Since they are candidates for the coalition's parliamentary group, they are likely to respond or you will do so on their behalf, if you have suggested it to them. Once again, I am saying goodbye, back when the new system law creates confusion in the original spatial planning law, there is obviously no irreconcilability, because then special laws are needed, which obviously, even when this law, so at least the amendment's proposing, must remain in force. Thus, despite the systemic nature that you have highlighted, there remain exceptions that must remain, even though you first proposed deleting. And here we are getting closer and closer to that proposal that came from our side when we proposed that we have a special law for roads that we would put into space, and it was said that we should go systematically. So this really remains an open question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Roko Žarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Since the question is addressed to me, I can only answer that I find it difficult to comment, and I would ask the applicants to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u237	Anyone else want to talk about Article 69 and the amendment? [[No one wants to.]] I conclude the debate on Article 69 and the amendment to Article 69 and thus the debate on the proposal for a law on the placing of spatial arrangements of State importance in the space. We're moving to 17. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER DEVELOPING PROPOSAL OF THE DEVELOPING SUPPORT LOCAL COMMUNITY MARIBOR AND THE COMMUNITY OF THE GOVERNMENTAL DEVELOPING REGION, IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of three Members, with the first-signed Mr Janez Ribič. With regard to this bill, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I would like to invite Mrs Renato Brunskole, Vice-President of the Committee, to the floor for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! In a complementary explanation of the bill proposed by the representatives of the group of Members who proposed the law, the Committee is aware that industry is already failing in the Podrav region for a longer period of time and is therefore facing a high level of unemployment, particularly during the period of the financial and economic crisis, which has affected the region more than comparable regions in Slovenia. This is why the people of this area see an exit in the adoption of a similar intervention law on development support, as was the case with Pomure. At the meeting, the representative of the Government explained that the decision to adopt an intervention law on development support to Pomurje, where the bankruptcy of two large companies resulted in the great social distress of the population in the wider area, which was non-systemic, but at the time correct, and had already produced positive results. Immediately after the adoption of the intervention law for the Pomura region, the Government began to prepare a new system law on the promotion of coherent regional development. Let us also recall that a similar proposal, such as the proposal for a law on development support for the Municipality of Maribor, was also a proposal for development support for the area of the Bela Krajina and Kočevska, but was not adopted. However, the Opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service points out that the proposed law once again derogates from the provisions of the applicable law on the promotion of coherent regional development, noting that four times the amount of funding is foreseen for the Podrav Region than for the Development Support Act for the Pomur region for the period 2010-2015. However, the proposed content solutions do not differ significantly. In the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the proposed law is constitutionally controversial in particular with regard to the implementation of the constitutional principles of the rule of law and equality before the law, since this is a non-systemic approach to the regulation of regional development policy. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out at the meeting that the individual solutions proposed were insufficiently specific in order to require the implementation of the law to supplement them with amendments, which were not tabled within the time limit set. In the course of the meeting, the representative of the proposer explained that amendments had already been prepared in the SLS Group to be considered as amendments to the Committee. In view of the absence of a general discussion on the draft law under Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee discussed further the conclusion that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. In the debate, most members supported the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, in order to address the issue of more coherent regional development of individual regions, namely not only the Podrav Region, but also Kočevska, Bele Krajina, Koroška and others, by systemic and not intervention law. According to the majority of the members of the Committee of the Upper Podravje, there is no significant economic and financial situation, such as most other areas of Slovenia. The debate also drew particular attention to the issue of where the Government would receive the necessary development resources to the extent proposed by the law. On the other hand, some members of the draft law supported in principle on the grounds that a similar law had already been adopted for Pomurje. The bill is also intended to be supported for objective reasons, as projects already foreseen in the budget were more rapidly implemented in Pomour after the adoption of the intervention law. They believed that such laws were needed primarily because we do not have a second level of local self-government in Slovenia, i.e. the provinces that would better address the development problems of wider areas and draw on European cohesion funds more quickly and efficiently. On the basis of the debate, the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and the fact that the applicant had not tabled amendments to the draft law, the Committee decided, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service within a time limit set, that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u239	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Janez Ribič to present his position on the proposal of his mother's working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u240	Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament! Regionalisation, decentralisation, consistent, even regional development in Slovenia has led us to decide on such a move. This law on support, assistance to a region is not the only one, I am sure that other environments will indicate that a system law is urgently needed. We also want to accelerate the functioning of this government. The statistical region Podravje has 34 municipalities, with 319,186 inhabitants at the end of December 2004, which is 16% of the total Slovenian population. According to population density, from 147.1 inhabitants per square kilometer, it is ranked third in Slovenia. The largest by area is Slovenska Bistrica, while the maximum number and density of the population is Maribor. The number of people in Podravje declined by 0.2% between 2000 and 2004, while in Slovenia as a whole it increased by 0.3%. In the period from 1981 to the first half of 2004, the Podravska region in addition to Pomurska recorded the largest drop in the young population aged up to 14 years. In the structure of the population by age group, the proportion of the young decreases and the proportion of the older population increases. The decline in fertility, population ageing and displacement are reflected in the decline in the number of active populations in the region, which will also reflect the decline of the working population in the longer term following these trends. I would like to say that in the past the Podravska region with Maribor has lost almost all industry. There was a lot of unemployment, people retired early, some moved out of the region. We can't get out of here today. We have done everything in our power to be the European Capital of Culture in order to improve and upgrade cultural infrastructure, we have done everything possible to implement the University of Maribor in order to improve and upgrade sports infrastructure, because we believe that young people and all people in this area are equal to people in central Slovenia. The full analysis shows that the risks to this region are as follows. The region is uncompetitive due to the uncollecting and untapped development opportunities, which may affect the continuation of negative development trends and the developmental underdevelopment of the region. The lack of integrated development projects based on the exploitation of all available resources will further reduce the region's attractiveness for external investment and also negatively affect the further development of companies operating in the region. The environment is unprepared for partnership, lack of financial resources in the area of health and social protection, human resources development measures and mechanisms are unrelated, employment promotion measures are insufficiently linked to measures to promote the creation of quality jobs, new and quality jobs are created too slowly, the free movement of labour, especially for young people educated, can affect their migration from the region. The further decline in population and negative growth will result in an increasing proportion of the old population. Further halting international competition, globalisation trends and the country's insurmountable entrepreneurial environment may endanger the survival and development of existing companies and slow the creation of new ones. The lack and non-competitiveness of locations in the region will further reduce the region's attractiveness for external investment. Despite the State's assistance, there are still unfavourable conditions for investing in agriculture, complementary activities and rural development. The recognition of traditional cultural landscape is lost. The proposed law aims to create conditions for the start of restructuring and development of other Slovenian regions and to mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis through a programming approach and the provision of financing for development through new support to the natural region from new and existing programmes. The law strengthens the social state principle by promoting coherent regional development and economic restructuring in a region facing major structural problems, as if they had established regions, if decentralisation were to be provided for more coherent regional development, they would certainly not have introduced such laws. We are well aware that such an approach is not the best, but what else we could not serve today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Ms Duša Trbec Bučan, State Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, will present the Government's views on the proposal of the working body. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u242	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We oppose the proposed law. We have considered the initiative as part of a number of initiatives from various regions of Slovenia, which have come into difficulty with the economic crisis and see the outcome of the adoption of a specific development law for their area. This has already led to proposals for laws for White Krajina and Kočevsko, for Koroška and now for Podravje, which are all following last year's adopted law on measures for the development of support to the Pomur region for the period 2010-2015. We agree that the situation in regional development is difficult. Developmental differences in Slovenia are not diminishing. However, the financial and economic crisis has caused a disproportionate deterioration in the economic situation in the most lagging regions. The situation in the Pomur region even arose when the unemployment rate was significantly above 20% and immediate intervention in the form of law was needed, otherwise there could be irreparable social consequences not only for the Pomur region but more broadly. The solution in Pomura was non-systematic, but at that point only correct, because there was not yet an appropriate system solution. It cannot and must not become the adoption of intervention development laws a systemic solution. We need a new law on promoting coherent regional development that will respond to the needs of all areas facing development problems. The proposal for a new system law makes it possible to use an extended range of regional policy instruments in areas that are in difficulty. It also provides other areas with similar development problems with approximately the same level of State aid as the Pomurski region. The new law brings a territorially structured multi-military approach and flexible solutions, as we need dynamic measures that will trigger the government's rapid response in the face of the deteriorating situation and, if the situation improves, gradually reducing it. The proposal for a new law on the promotion of coherent regional development is in the preliminary reading in the parliamentary groups, is in the final stage and will be submitted shortly to the National Assembly. The reasons for the submission of a proposal for a law on development support to Maribor or Podravje are more understood in terms of warning about differences in the development of Slovenia and we oppose its adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Janez Ribič, who will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u244	Thank you for your word, chairman. Honourable representative of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! For years and years in the National Assembly, we have been trying, obviously with figs in our pocket, to establish regions and thus decentralise Slovenia and ensure more coherent regional development, and we fail to do so. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that this has caused great damage in Slovenia. Because we have not carried out regionalisations, we are here where we are. And then we wonder why we make such laws. Ours isn't the first, obviously not the last. The system law would certainly be the right move to make, but it is not yet, and it would be imperative that it be in force for some time, but not that we should be familiar with it in the coming weeks. Our mandate is already halfway through, and we have failed to do nothing in the direction of decentralisation and regionalisation. Given that it is obvious that you will reject the proposed law in most members of the National Assembly, I hope, at least, that our intention and efforts in this proposal have contributed to the speedy preparation of the law as well as the near transposition of the law on regions into the procedure of the National Assembly. Slovenia must ensure that there is a more coherent regional development as soon as possible. Our main purpose as a bill-maker is to stop the abandonment of regions by the Government and to provide fresh financial means to alleviate the economic crisis that has hit Podravje very badly. The introduction of the law is therefore also a form of pressure on the Government to finally deal with the issues of equal development of the country, as we are witnessing an ever-increasing gap between the developed Ljubljana and the rest of Slovenia. We ask ourselves, given that this has been the case with the capital law, why do we move more slowly in the context of the legal basis for more coherent regional development. The root of the crisis cannot wait any longer, so we propose that we reject the Committee's proposed decision and support the proposal for a law, because good speech does not count. They count duty, projects, the life of citizens is better. This is our mission and the duty of all envoys, regardless of where we come from in the end of Slovenia with the powers of the electorate to represent them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u246	Thank you. Dear President, Honourable Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law on the development support of the Municipality of Maribor and the municipalities of the Upper Podrav Region. I understand that the proposer follows the way in which poor regions are rescued, as we have had the case to see and also to be accepted to save the Podrav region. It is probably entirely justified that the applicants want to do so, because there is now no better and more effective way to save the region for which they stand. At this point, there are probably many regions that are destitute, which are in at least such a bad or worse situation. It is also likely that regions with significantly less potential and significantly less resources are able to resolve the situation themselves. The fact that regions that do not even have road connections do not have a fast road, neither do they have a university, nor do they have other development institutions that can thus help the development of the economy. We do not challenge all the arguments cited by the applicants for the resolution of the Municipality of Maribor and all other municipalities of the Upper Podrav Region, but we believe that the adoption of intervention laws was once a part of the programme in the National Assembly. Once, and I think and I hope that it was the last time, because such a solution is to put out fires where there is a fire, but it is not a systemic way or a systemic solution to the problem, so in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposal for this law and the pending species, which is increasingly long before the doors where intervention laws are shared, is a warning to the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development that they will approach even more quickly and more actively the creation of a law on coherent regional development. We know that the existing law is in no way capable of solving the major and major dilemmas and problems of the development of the regions that have begun with the decline in economic power. We therefore believe that in this debate it has again warned the Ministry that it will approach the creation of a new law on coherent regional development and thus resolve not only the Municipality of Maribor, not only the municipality of Upper Podravja, so that we can save the White Krajina, Kočevje and not least Koroška, where the economic collapse took place, and it is obvious that Koroška will not be able to help herself and we expect assistance through this law for coherent regional development. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we will not support the bill, but we will vote that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u248	Thank you for your word. Colleagues, colleagues! Thus, in the Slovenian National Party, we have always said that our opinion on how to solve individual segments in times of crisis is completely different from that of this government. We are still confident, and one day there will be evidence that in times of crisis it is necessary to resolve the problem segmentally where the problem is and with the content that will solve the problem. Crisis is not the time for systemic and comprehensive solutions. It's not. And from this point of view, we were prepared on the working body, that's the first reason to support the bill we're talking about today. Secondly, if crises begin to resolve in one segment, in one area of the country, whether we have regions or not, we have 12 statistical ones, it is logical that those others who are affected will also come forward. In this case, Maribor and this Podravska region spoke. In front of us, we know there's a time when we're going to talk about the Korean region. And it is logical that the train will pull away because this government did not want to solve the pressing problems during the crisis and would be able to deal with systemic and organisational solutions later when the time comes when we will have economic stability. And that's why we would support this marriage. This law would also be supported because it has warned that in some area something needs to be done, but not to promise and say how it is being prepared, I do not know which system law is already in place for the equitable development of the regions. I've been listening for 10 years, and I've never seen or heard of him. So much for it. "No" is because for the first time, let the trainee take up his own ashes, because this marriage has been made on purpose and in its own way. The amount he wrote to be key to solving the problems is five times the amount received by the Pomur region. The period he chose to save is x, y period. It should be aligned with the same funding period or the resolution of problems such as the Pomur region. He's not here. However, I most resent the drafter, I can honestly say this when the Law-Legal Service asked him to file for consideration on the mother's working body of the amendment, with which the law would be constitutionally incontrovertible and consistent for the first hearing, and he did not do so. That's what I call no offense, superficiality. And for such superficiality, of course, I did not choose to vote in favour of this law, but I was not against it. I'm saying it again. Maribor and this natural environment is an environment that has economic consequences from the first years after the war, mostly from the years there until 1994, 1995. And it's not right to wear them for 20, 30 years or 20 years, that no one will say I'm overreacting. It's not right. He'd do well to be helped. However, the drafter would be right to respond to the call of the Legal and Legislative Service in order to align the needs and requirements of the law with that law in order to harmonise itself in a timely manner and to table amendments for consideration on the labour force, then today we would not be talking about this negative decision here, but we would be talking about a positive one, but even if it fell. But the warning would be a lot stronger. Without hair on my tongue, we will do the same in the Slovenian National Party as we did in the mother's working body. It would be morally right to uphold such a law. But we will not support the proposal, nor will we oppose this proposal, we will abstain, because, I have already said, we are putting much blame on the drafter of this law. However, I certainly hope that we will finally see this coherent regional development for once. Look, I'm going to sit down now, and we're going to stand here with the same content and talk about whether or not the proposal for a new resolution law in Koroška is appropriate again. This is going to be a third case. Don't say anything when the white landscape comes along. So what do we do? Then we can convene one session every week on this subject alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u250	Hello again! The parliamentary group of Social Democrats of the law submitted by the Group of Members, with first-signed colleague Janez Rybic, will not support it. All that has been stated in the bill itself, all of the many threats listed for the Podravsko region and which are to be testified to the developmental support of the Municipality of Maribor and the municipalities of the Upper Podravska region, all of these threats can be attributed to other areas of Slovenia. So to Pomurje, so to the White Landscapes, Kočevsky, Koroška, North Primorski and we could still list. There are problems everywhere. In this mandate, we have already passed a law on development assistance to Pomura, which brings results, but the multiplication of intervention laws certainly does not bring a solution. We will not, or cannot, solve regional inconsistencies with partial solutions, as these problems are largely encouraged and the intervention law does not solve this. As the Secretary of State has already said, the system law is a solution and it will be necessary to understand all political parties both the coalition and the opposition to a greater extent in order to solve this problem through a new law that systematically addresses the development problems of the underdevelopment of different regions in Slovenia. The new system law brings solutions in the same way and will ensure more coherent regional development throughout the territory of Slovenia. The solution contained in the system law has two sets of measures to be taken in the preparation of this law. Some are direct, regional incentives; others are sectoral coordination. Regional policy must be implemented throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, not only where the problem is. After all, every part of Slovenia has some undeveloped part, so in this case, knowing that some part of Slovenia is less developed and needs continued support, it is certainly the right way to a new system law. The answer is in the programme approach, in cooperation with the State authorities, and it is necessary to examine options, wishes, requirements, comparative advantages, and to harmonise this in a document that is feasible and financially supported. Social Democrats advocate coherent and sustainable regional development, and this can only be achieved through systemic solutions that will enable regional policy to function. We are convinced that Slovenian regional policy needs fundamental changes mainly from the point of view of a more efficient, entrepreneurial and measurable objective of a targeted implementation of the country's development policy. In doing so, it is very important to introduce systematic ways and forms of intervention to address the situation of economic and other crises at the level of the country and its institutions, as well as at the level of individual areas, regions and their regional development institutions. A good system law on the promotion of coherent regional development, strong and strong regional management and adequate care for areas within statistical regions are certainly necessary conditions for a successful regional policy, and this is the way to equal development in Slovenia. The opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly also points us to the need to reject this bill. Among the other indications, the proposal is constitutionally controversial, since it is a non-systemic approach to the regulation of regional development policy. We will not support this bill in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, but we will strive to adopt a law on the consistent regional development of the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u252	Thank you for your word. A similar law such as this has already been adopted for Pomurje and gives positive results. The project office, which was established there, has also accelerated the implementation of the already prepared projects by the municipalities there, and we believe from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that such laws are also useful in other regions, since statistical regions or regional development agencies do not care enough for all development projects in the region, and in particular for projects from cohesion policy programmes. These projects run individual municipalities on behalf of several municipalities and have problems with the progress of such projects. By setting up a development council such as the one established for White Krajina, or a project office such as in Pomurje, the region would have received a coordinator between municipalities for all development projects. The system law on coherent regional development is expected to bring about long-term solutions to the problem. Regions, however, need immediate solutions primarily to draw European funds from the financial perspective 2007-2013. Similar laws have little financial burden on the state budget, but they can make a significant contribution to the better implementation of this budget. We support the proposed law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u253	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. Mr. Fishych, procedurally? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u254	Thank you for your word, chairman. I just want to add to Mr. Barovich. At a time when the masters were not on the working body, the amendments were submitted to the committee [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u255	Mr. Fish, that's probably not procedural. There is no controversy with the debates of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u256	by proposing that the mother's working body take them into account as its own. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u257	Mr. Fish, you can't talk. There is no debate on the views of the Group. And please, if you have any kind of procedural proposal, give it to me, not to argue with Mr Barovic. Thank you very much, Mr. Fish. The proposal for a decision on this agenda item will be decided in half an hour in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby terminate this item of the agenda and also the 20th meeting of the Assembly. We'll pick her up in 30 minutes at 5:05.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u258	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda - second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities, the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of SD, LDS, Res and DeSUS to Article 3. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LDS, Zares and DeSUS to Article 8. We vote, the vote is on. There are 63 Members and Members present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SD, LDS, Zares and DeSUS to Article 16. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LDS, DeSUS and Indeed to Article 22. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LDS, DeSUS and Indeed to Article 24. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LDS, Zares and DeSUS to Chapter 7. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LDS, Zares and DeSUS to Article 36. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LDS, Res and DeSUS to Article 38. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment of SD, LDS, Zares and DeSUS to Article 43. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments and thus conclude my second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third reading of the bill at the next meeting of the National Assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the following decision: The draft law for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Small Work Act in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 4. If this amendment is adopted, the vote on the amendment under point 2 is irrelevant. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 35. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LDS, Res and DeSUS to Article 4(2). We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 36 votes in favour, 20 votes in favour. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LDS, Res and DeSUS to Article 32. Mr. Rozej, do you have a word on behalf of the Emissary Group? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u259	Thank you so much for saying that. I cannot support the amendment because I do not believe that it is in accordance with the current legislation which defines the Student Organisation of Slovenia as a representative of students in this country. Otherwise, it is true that the amendment improves the dictatorship adopted by the Committee at second reading. This suggested that representatives of university student councils should sit as representatives of students on this committee. The representatives of the student councils of universities are, of course, part of the university, they are not representative representatives of students under Slovenian law, nor do I understand why we should sit on this committee, which is now being amended by Article 32. I am convinced that it would be considered to represent students in this committee to include representatives of the Student Organisation of Slovenia. This is a democratically organised, broad representation in it, and can also be attended by those students who study at independent higher education institutions. In a dictatorship such as it is now, the representatives of the student councils in the independent higher education institutions will not be able to participate, and will therefore be discriminated against. If you remember yesterday's vote, when we voted on the composition of the RTV Slovenia Council, we had a proposal there that representatives of religious communities would also have the opportunity to participate in the RTV world, but for the reason that this is not possible, the fact that their method of election is not determined. The same goes for the appointed representative of the student councils of universities in the Republic of Slovenia. I can't support it. I hope that a qualified candidate will be found in the third reading, which will improve this dictatorship, so that it will also be legally sustainable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u260	We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 22. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LDS, Res and DeSUS to Article 41. Excuse me, Mr. Rogers, do you have a word in your own name? An explanation of the voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u261	In my own name, I'd like to explain my voice. With this amendment, we remove from this expert committee to monitor the implementation of the small work the student organisation of the university, which is, what we already think of it and whatever emotional inclinations we already have towards it, is legally a representative representative of students in this country. If we want to reduce this role, we should probably amend the statutory law governing this, but not by withdrawing this small part law to reduce the legal powers that the Student Organisation of Slovenia has. From the bench, I hear the word "revenge." Perhaps so, but perhaps this high assembly should be wiser than those who destroyed its facade and know how to assign to anyone in the country that suits it. I think it's one unjustifiable demonisation and witch hunt and that legislation should not reflect the current emotional outflows of this or that. I hope that Members and Members are so balanced if we are not already balanced that we can see the truth through just the current facade, which is more or less broken, more or less gray, white or black, but the truth is always somewhere in between. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u262	We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 40 votes in favour, 20 votes in favour. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LDS, Res and DeSUS to Article 42. Mr. Rozjej, on his own behalf, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u263	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps it was the intention of the proposers of this amendment that the effects of the Small Work Act should be properly evaluated. However, I think that it has again been forgotten those that should be taken into account in the evaluation of this law. I am convinced that the Economic and Social Council may be one of the partners who must familiarise himself with the report on the effects of the law before the Ministry submits this report to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the fact is that there are other government authorities in this country that should also be informed of such a report, at least in the law which it has established. This is at least the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Student Issues and the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth. This is not in here, so I do not intend to substantiate the larger or smaller role of the Economic and Social Council, but also here I hope that in the third reading there will be a qualified candidate to correct this mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u264	We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 22. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments and thus conclude my second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Given that the number of amendments to this Act has been limited, I would suggest that a third hearing or vote be held immediately, in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, take a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 25. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. Since the proposed decision has not been adopted, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: The draft law for third reading shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - second reading of the draft law on labour market regulation, the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of SD, DeSUS, LDS and Really to Article 54. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, for 61, against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, LDS, DeSUS and Res to Article 192. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 64, against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 194. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, for 65, against no one. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments and thus conclude my second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a proponent of the bill if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u267	Thank you very much. In this case, it was also a small number of amendments, so I propose that we have a third hearing at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present for 67, against no one. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the bill on Tuesday, 28. 9. 2010, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. The amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the proposal at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - the consideration of the draft law on amendments to the postal service law, the reduced procedure. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments to the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, all of whom have spoken in favour. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 34th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree amending and supplementing the Decision establishing a Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. As the amendments to the amended motion for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a decision would not be harmonised. We're voting. The vote is under way. There were 68 votes in favour and 68 votes in favour. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the 12th item of the agenda - second reading of the draft law on geodetic activities in the framework of the regular procedure Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government forgive me. With regard to the harmonisation of the law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u269	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! For reasons of non-compliance, I propose that the National Assembly imposes upon the Government of the Republic of Slovenia a harmonisation amendment to ensure the consistency of the proposal of this Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Since the proposal for a law on second-reading amendments at the meeting of the home working body is inconsistent, in accordance with Article 140(5) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask the Government to prepare a harmonisation amendment. The National Assembly will continue its consideration of this item on Thursday, 23. 9. 2010, at the end of the 35th item of the agenda. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - second reading of the Draft Law on Liability for Nuclear Damage in the framework of the regular procedure Since the second amendment to the amended bill has not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There were 66 votes in favour, 66 in favour, against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the end of agenda item 14 - second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Placing of Spatial Arrangements of State Interest into Space, under the ordinary procedure We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 39. We're voting. The vote is under way. 67 Members and Members voted for 45 against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS to Article 62. We're voting. Excuse me, please. [[advertising from the hall]] I said please, don't ejaculate. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u271	Thank you very much. It has to be signed up in some way. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this amendment has developed a very broad debate in the adoption process and it has clearly shown that the whole law is not intended for what is said in its explanation, and in particular this article creates a systemic confusion and legal confusion, which will lead to an alibi for the government coalition, that no free project will be prepared for a two-year period of accommodation in the space, because the Government is aware that it has actually brought the country to the brink of collapse and that such projects are not even possible to invest under this government, and now it needs to blur the entire situation. And this article, this amendment, which is once longer than the basic article, think about what it is to supplement the law, is only in this function. It is sad that, in such a way, government parties are trying to cover the fact that their government and this coalition have brought the country into an extremely delicate, horrifying position and are making laws that are absolutely imprecise, allowing for any fishing in the mud and giving the government, as I said, an alibi for not carrying out any project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u272	Mrs. Pechanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u273	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour of this amendment, because this amendment, together with the whole law, at least partially solves the problems caused by the adoption of the Spatial Planning Act, which was adopted in the previous term and which has complicated the system and way of adopting spatial acts, implementing and general acts in municipalities and also at the national level. Therefore, it is high time to at least temporarily resolve matters under this law, or we have already said in public that this government will ensure that within about one year a new system law is drawn up, which will be truly effective, that we will not again and again have new and new complications in the implementation of the law when municipal and spatial plans and other acts are adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u274	Mr. Jacob the Presbyterian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u275	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment is, of course, necessary, but not for the reasons or only for the reasons stated by my predecessor, but because the lawmaker has forgotten those documents that are already in preparation. I agree that some of the state spatial plans are in preparation at different stages, and this amendment, of course, solves this at different points, depending on what stage the spatial plan is at, solves the problem of these spatial plans, which are in the stage of implementation, in the stage of production. But the problem is that these facilities, these spatial plans, are extremely small in Slovenia. We have literally decided in the State that we will no longer have investments. I've been pointing that out for a year and a half. I am not saying that, already in the previous term, the preparation of these spatial plans has begun to decline, but luckily, there are still some, and we must speed them up in this way and resolve them in this way. For this reason, I will support this amendment so that at least some of the state spatial plans that are under way may run a little faster.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u276	Mr. Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u277	Thank you very much. I cannot support this amendment, because I also did not get the Minister's reply to one question first: whether the medo-Chinese projects, which are also of national importance, now run by the municipalities and are in a certain stage, could become state spatial plans and be more feasible because it is a matter of drawing on European funds. I didn't get that answer. If this were possible, then we would cover much more than just these state spatial plans and then this law would really have some greater effect. Otherwise, the Plan has already been completed in this mandate and many of the amendments we have proposed have also been rejected in the procedure in order to make this law more operational.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u278	We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 5. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 63. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 69. Mr. Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Of course, I cannot support this amendment either, because there is still an unresolved issue here in the debate. To the specific questions of Mr Verlic, the Minister replied: "I hardly comment and would ask the proposers to help." Even though you had plenty of time, you did not help the minister. It's a very unusual situation, a unique situation, a situation I've never experienced here, that the entire coalition couldn't answer, even though it had time. And it is once again confirmed that this law does not fully serve the purpose of this law, that it is intended to mislead the Slovenian public, that the situation will be even worse on the basis of this law, which is why I reject this amendment and will also vote against the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u280	We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 3. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have thus concluded our decision on the amendments, and I am thus also concluding the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, as the proposer of the bill, if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! In view of the small number of amendments, in accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the third consideration of the law be carried out at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u282	Thank you very much. I say the same thing and we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] In your own name? Mr. Lah, please. Mr. Kontic, would you like to? Here you go. Do you have a procedural proposal? An explanation of the voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u283	I have a procedural proposal. I suggest you, Mr Vice-President, that you find that the proposal of procedural nature does not justify a vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u284	We vote, the vote is on. There are 66 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 19. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 19.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the bill on Tuesday, 28. 9. 2010, after the end of the vote. The services of the National Assembly will prepare a review in which amendments will be adopted.Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants by the beginning of the third reading of the bill at the meeting. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - second consideration of the draft law on development support for the Municipality of Maribor and the municipalities of the Upper Podrav Region, regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on development support for the Municipality of Maribor and the municipalities of the Upper Podrav Region is not suitable for further consideration. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[No, no, ……]] I'm opening applications for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u285	Your Honor! We adopt this law at a specific time. This is a time when we are already deeply involved in the campaign for local elections, and in this regard I do not think it appropriate to deal with serious issues soberly and rationally, especially serious questions about the differences between our regions and cities. The question of these differences is undoubtedly legitimate. At this point, I would like to welcome the intention of the proposer, who, by means of this law, wanted to draw attention to the specific development needs that Maribor has today in its wider regional territory, and in particular to the opportunities that we have yet to realize. And these opportunities cannot be realized by the city of Maribor without the active participation of the country. Nevertheless, I firmly believe that these needs and opportunities need to be addressed in a systemic, comprehensive framework, not with partial solutions. It is true that we have tried some of these partial solutions in Pomur, we have seen that they can work, and today we are trying to translate them into a law on coherent regional development that will apply to both Maribor and other regions. In this respect, due to the nature of the proposed law, I cannot support some comprehensive system of legislation, but also with understanding for these development needs and opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u286	Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u287	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! I think that this law is appropriate, because it happens that the Styria or better said Podravska region from day to day is drier, in fact it is less and less without water. Other in Slovenia you have a little more water, but Maribor unfortunately does not, but I think financial water. Therefore, if the government has ordered and made a law on Pomurje, I think that the Law on Podravje is needed, as well as the law on the Koro region, as well as the law on the White Land. Because nothing happens to the regions and you will not get through the regions, this law is appropriate in order to ensure even distribution of funds throughout the country, not to concentrate everything in Ljubljana. I want and I hope you will support this law. Believe that this law is appropriate and that development will move evenly forward. Maribor is and will be the European capital of culture, as will the University of Maribor. I think you have to help the Podravski region, because this is a development for the whole country, not just for part of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u288	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The pre-election time is the right time to assess the soberness and responsibility and seriousness of the intentions of the government coalition and government. Therefore, I am not actually surprised that the government coalition has decided that this law is not suitable for further consideration, because this law wants to help the Podravski region, where my municipality, Slovenska Bistrica, also belongs, and here the indicators are frightening. Population is getting old and shrinking. There's no perspective. And yet you refuse to allow this region, which is lagging behind, to join the Slovenian development. In fact, the position of this current government coalition towards the Podravska region does not surprise me. I must say that, in fact, some of the members of the government from this region are consistently voting against the development programmes in this region. Additional evidence, such as the relationship, is also the support of some mayoral candidates by a coalition that goes like this: more is a candidate of the mayor's coalition serving the Taliban methods in its financial transactions, more support of the government coalition and vice versa. If there is a programme on the table that could help this region and get it out of development problems, then the government coalition is against it. Therefore, for the last time, I call on you to support this law, which will allow some very negative trends in the economic, demographic and development areas in this region to change or at least stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u290	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u291	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to support the bill, because if I didn't, I would actually close my eyes before the Maribor industrial pool was destroyed. At that time someone said that the red Maribor had to be destroyed economically, and that was what happened. Giants such as TAM, Electrometallic, Hydromontage, MTT fell, and last but not least Metal, because it was on its way to Litostrom. This was the saddest and most difficult period for Maribor and its surroundings. There are tens of thousands of people left without a job. No one wondered whether we would be able to cope with the crisis, which for years we also succeeded entirely thanks to hardworking and capable Styrians. I hope that history does not repeat itself, for as long as someone from Maribor asks for help, there are also concerns in the National Assembly for Members from Maribor. Sorry, in Maribor we have already experienced all stages of the serious and we are no stranger to what some regions are now experiencing. Of course I'll support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u292	Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? Check-in is on. I can see a few hands. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u293	Thank you very much. I think that in the debate of the Secretary of State, and also in several debates and positions of the Group of Members, it has been clear enough that it is right to resolve this issue through a system-wide law and in this way help all areas in Slovenia that are in need of assistance. So is the white landscape where I come from. However, I am sure that there are areas in the Podrav region that need help, and everywhere else, so we will resolve this matter by means of a system-wide law. I cannot therefore support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u294	Mr. Dejan Levanic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u295	Thank you very much. I can't get past the fact that this marriage doesn't seem selfish, incomplete and bad and developmental. After all, if we've come this far, Ptuj needs his marriage. And since Ptuj is not in this marriage, I will not support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u296	Mr. Matjaž Zanoskar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u297	Thank you, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! See, I absolutely agree with and do not challenge all these arguments cited by the proposed law to help the Municipality of Maribor and the municipalities of the Upper Drava Valley, Upper Podravje, but at the moment there are still several regions in Slovenia that are significantly more nourished, essential in major problems, in a larger economic collapse and much more needed assistance than the region proposed by this law. It would be extremely discriminatory to adopt this law and thus begin to solve the problems that I consider to be serious, of course they are serious in Maribor, but look at all the other regions. There are regions that do not have far-reaching infrastructure such as Maribor, regions that do not have motorways, regions that do not have universities, and have no development and technological centres to help an economy that cannot really help themselves. And in such cases, it would probably be opportunistic and right and justified to be in line for the first rescue, and then everything else. I believe that this law is not suitable for further consideration because it would discriminate against all other regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u298	Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u299	Thank you for your word. I just want to say that the marriage was filed in May, not deep in pre-election time. I would also like to say that the same law that we have adopted for the Pomur region is in a way to praise, and that, which is quite similar, with the same problems, is not true. I would also like to make sure that he comes to the National Assembly as soon as possible by means of a system law. We are all aware that more will have to be done to decentralise, that more will have to be done for coherent regional development, that we will have to start talking about regions. This law is somewhere in drawers, it has been prepared, it has failed in the previous term, and I think if we also had such a law, then we wouldn't talk about such issues as we are talking about today, we wouldn't stand up for each other in our own field, how poor and poor we would be, but we would have solved these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u300	Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u301	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! This country has a system law, a system law on coherent regional development. And this law provides that the State must provide 1.5% of the gross social product per year for coherent regional development. This means about €400 to €500 million per year. Since these funds are not provided by the Government, partial solutions such as those for Pomurje are used. I think that all these attempts with these sectoral partial solutions are perfectly logical, because this is now a new system-wide government approach to deal with specific problems where they arise. As with Pomura, MEPs have decided to help Podrav and Koroška as well. The new system law you're talking about will bring nothing. If we cannot guarantee in this law, or if the Government does not provide funds for coherent regional development, it will not provide them in the new system law. There won't be any. And to apologize to the system law that's in preparation is completely depressed, it's incorrect. This means simply laying down the solutions to the specific problems that arise in Podrav, Kočevsko, White Krajina, Koroškem, to the distant past. This system law will not help because there will be insufficient funding. If the government coalition has sufficient power, capital, voting capital, it can provide, by means of a budget rebalancing, for the existing system law 1.5% of the gross social product to compensate for the compensatory measures in the regions in difficulty. If that is not the case, you will not do anything concrete with the next step you anticipate. That is why I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-22-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u302	We are voting on the proposal for a law on development support for the Municipality of Maribor and the municipalities of the upper Podrav region, that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. There are 64 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 26. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Latvia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, this is a bill on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Latvia. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the hearing, the amendments to the meeting were not possible to be tabled and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information, this is a bill on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Council of the Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the exchange and mutual protection of classified information. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled, so they are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Montenegro on security cooperation before natural and other accidents. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 29. On the day-to-day basis, this is a preliminary proposal for an act on the succession of the Traffic Signs Convention, concluded at the bottom of the day 8. NOVEMBER 1968. The draft act was tabled by the Government. The proposal for an act was addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy as its parent working body and reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for an act. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] The act is hereby adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Singapore on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion in connection with income taxes, with the Protocol. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the working body of the mother. He reported to the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. 67 Members and Members voted, all in favour, none against. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] The law has thus been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 31. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF A CATAR ON THE ELIMINATION OF DOUBT TaxATION AND PROTOCOL OBJECTIVES The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which also reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 66 Members and Members voted, all in favour, none against. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The law has thus been adopted and I am thus also concluding this item on the agenda. We're moving to 32. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF A LAW ON THE RATIFICATION OF THE CONVENTION BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE ARABIAN REPUBLIC OF EGYPT ON THE AVOIDATION OF DOUBLE TaxATION AND THE PROTOCOL The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. We're voting. The vote is under way. 65 Members and Members voted for 65 against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] The law has thus been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 33. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE CONVENTION BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE OF COOPERATION ON THE AVOIDATION OF DOUBT COOPERATION AND COOPERATION The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. 66 Members and Members voted, all in favour, none against. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the law has been adopted and I conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving to 40. PERIOD OF THE DAY - CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL VERIFICATION OF THE TEXT OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE STATUS OF OTHER COUNTRIES, THE FOLLOWERS OF THE FRANCE IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, AND OF THE Official VERIFICATION OF THE TEXT OF THE AIR LAW Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the excise law shall be confirmed. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the law on the regulation of the status of citizens of other countries, the successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, is confirmed. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 18. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the aviation law is officially consolidated. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] The Assembly has officially consolidated the text of that Act. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to treatment 41. It's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal of the Court of Justice for the appointment of a judge to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia by a proposal for a decision. The proposal to appoint a Supreme Court Judge to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia was submitted to the National Assembly by the Court of Justice. I'm sorry, I told the Senate, the world is right. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision calling the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia mag. Damian Floriančich. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal by the Council of Justice for election to a judicial function by means of a proposal for a decision. The application for election in judicial office was submitted by the Council of the State. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision which elects Suzanne Putrih to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals for decisions on the selection of judges. The proposals for conclusions were submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which also informed the assembly in writing. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I shall put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges of the Court of Justice in Celje. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote the motion for a decision on the election of judges of the Labour Court in Cyprus. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the election of judges of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana to decide on working disputes. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[in favour of 64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of judges of the Labour and Social Court in Ljubljana to decide in social disputes. We're voting. I note that 66 Members and Members voted in favour of 64, against no one. [[in favour of 64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The decision is hereby adopted. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of judges of the Labour Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We turn to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly to determine the political responsibilities of the holders of public functions on the suspicion that they were involved in financing the contested management acquisitions of Istrabenz companies, holding company, d.d. and Pivovarna Laško, d.d., by banks or credit institutions in the main state ownership [[credit institutions within the NLB Group and NKBM d. d]] , by abuse of their political impact on the granting of loans to members of the management bodies of those companies and associated legal and natural persons [[so-called "slamant" companies, financial holding companies and the like]] for the purchase of a majority or a majority share of the company managed or led by them and for the identification of the political responsibilities of the holders of public functions due to allegedly inadequate or inadequate acquisition legislation allowing for limited disputed management acquisitions. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no debaters. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The proposed decision was adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the Vice-President of the Defence Committee. The draft decision was tabled by the Group of Social Democrats. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not. Do Members want a word, Members? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to discharge Mr Bogdan Čepič in the Committee on the Defence of the Vice-President's functions and Mr Janez Kikelj in his capacity as Vice-President. We're voting. 65 Members and Members voted 64 against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes this agenda item, which we will continue on Tuesday, 28. 9. 2010 I am also adjourning the 20th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Goodbye.
