ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 21st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members cannot attend today's meeting: Dr. Peter Verlič, mag. Branko Grimes, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, mag. Stefan Tessel, Aloyz Posedel, Janko Weber, Miran Potč from 17:00 on and Bojan Kontic from 14:00 on. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY – REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS TO THE AGRICULTURAL LAW, PRIVATE PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Franc Bogovic, to further explain the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u2	Good-bye, dear fellows! At its 22nd meeting, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered the draft Law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands, which was proposed by a group of Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. As you know, it was 10. 9. 2010 concluded that the proposal for a law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. In addition to the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, we also heard the position of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Agricultural and Economic Chamber. The materials were supplied to us in business hands. No amendments were tabled. The legislative and legal service examined the draft law and found that it was in line with the legal order and had no comments on the material. We took note of the opinion of the Government of 9. 9. In 2010, in which the Government notes that the adoption of the bill would, in fact, facilitate the introduction of the comassation procedure, as the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is currently undergoing intensive preparation of the amendment to the Agricultural Lands Act, which conceptually represents a completely new approach to the agricultural sector in spatial planning, the Government proposal does not support. Furthermore, the Government considers that the amendment submitted to the extent proposed by the Group of Members is not suitable for further consideration, as it does not solve the procedure for the introduction of the Commission in its entirety, as provided for by the Government law in preparation. The Commission of the Council of State supports the amendment presented. The applicant further explained the articles of the law. As we know, it is essentially one point of content in this law. This means that the share of agricultural land required for the introduction of the commotion procedure would fall from 80% to 67%, thus simplifying or facilitating the introduction of the commotion procedure, which is urgently needed as an agricultural operation, given the large fragmentation in Slovenia, and also in terms of self-sustainment, would certainly have a positive impact. The Minister said the government's position, it is said that he does not support this law. A debate was opened in which the coalition's representatives, in particular, defended the Government's position and referred to the law in preparation, while other members of the committee coming from opposition groups, expressed disagreement with such reasoning and also said that in the third attempt - we know that this law has been in place in the National Assembly for more than a year - could have been in force and then the procedure would have been easier to run. In the end, a vote was taken. By this vote, by 5 votes in favour, he decided that the law was not suitable for further consideration and 4 against that decision, the Committee also decided. Thus, most of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food has adopted a decision that the proposal for a law amending the Agricultural Lands Act is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the law, Jožet Tank, for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you very much. There is an expert consensus, as well as political consensus, on the need to reduce the quorum for the introduction of the comassation procedure for more than a year and a half in this national assembly. The first test was conducted with debates last year, even twice. Neither the Member nor the Government were against the proposed solution. However, it has not yet happened in the National Assembly that, with such a high principled consensus – no one in the debate has objected, as said, to a two-thirds agreement on the introduction of the comassation procedure; even more, it has been explicitly stressed in all the debates that this solution is supported by the Government and the coalition Members – in order to reject twice the law that brings exactly that solution. This session is likely to be the third time this has happened. Understand who can! Whatever the cost, the government and the coalition are against a solution that they even support. This can be called wickedness or hurtlessness without chance and the destruction of the countryside can continue. As an obstacle to support, coalition Members and the Government have also stated that they already have the law in coalition coordination and that this law will be introduced no later than September. That didn't happen. Then it was said to be filed by the end of last year at the latest. That didn't happen either. They stated that the law would be more comprehensive, but we do not know and have not yet seen any solutions, not the one we have proposed, but some comprehensive solutions. At that time, we have even replaced the Minister, and also this Minister does not fulfil his commitments, which are written and laid down in the answers to our parliamentary questions, by which date. Such delays are unacceptable as they impede the implementation of rural agro-operations, especially affected areas with scattered properties and small holdings, which is the majority of the Slovenian countryside. For two years there has also been no call for comassations, which means an additional systemic obstacle to rural agro-operations. Even where they have everything ready for the launch of the Commission, they cannot do so because there is no invitation to tender. The consequences are very noticeable: the unprocessed surfaces are increasing very intensively, the surfaces are growing, the farms are falling, the cultural landscape is disappearing, the forests and bushes are changing, the problems with the animals are increasing, the rate of self-sustainment is decreasing, and many of these reasons could be listed. At the same time, construction is prevented on such degraded surfaces, even in cases where settlements have been concluded and all municipal infrastructure has been laid down on these surfaces. For these reasons, the escape from the countryside is inevitable. However, it is unacceptable that, despite all these consequences, and despite the full principled agreement on the degree of consent, the quorum for the imposition of the comitology procedures does not support these solutions, only because they are not proposed by the true proposer because they are not proposed by any of the coalition. It's just proof more that the country has become [[Incomprehensible]] corruption. That for the country, only what grows on the fertilizer of the coalition is good, regardless of the fact that the best fields are falling apart. Dear colleagues, I suggest you support the law so that it does not leave just the greens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. The word has magic. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u6	Dear Mr President, honourable Member, honourable Members! The proposal for a Law amending the Agricultural Lands Act submitted to the National Assembly on 6 August 2010 by a group of Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank, as has already been established today, states among the reasons for the adoption of the law that the fragmentation and smallness of farms in Slovenia is extremely critical, and the percentage of consent needed for the introduction of the Commission is too high. At the same time, they also state the size and fragmentation of the property as two reasons which experts believe are among the biggest agranopolitical problems. Therefore, the applicants want to achieve harmonisation by amending the law, including by regulating the area in the field of comassation, by proposing an easier introduction of the comissation procedure, so that it can be introduced if the owners of agricultural land holding more than 67 % of the land area in the envisaged area of comissation agree with it. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. I note from the Government that the adoption of the law, as proposed by the Group of Members, would in fact make it easier to introduce a commotion procedure. As has already been pointed out today, the agricultural ministry is currently in the process of preparing an intensive amendment to the agricultural land law, which conceptually represents a completely new approach to the agricultural sector in spatial planning. It is true that the Government, with the proposed amendment to the Agricultural Lands Act, wants to address the issue of agricultural land protection in particular, but the proposal for a novel foresees some improvements in the field of comassations as well. The main focus is on simplifying the procedure for the introduction of comassations and providing the necessary materials. The proposal also reduces the threshold for the introduction of the Commission from 80% to 67%, as proposed in this bill, which is currently under consideration by the National Assembly. However, I would like to point out that, at the same time, the novelty brings with it some other urgent changes in the area of the introduction of commissions, in order to make these procedures more effective. If you allow me, I would say that, at the same time, in addition to these changes in the field of comassation, some amendments in the field of agricultural land protection will introduce certain mechanisms for the implementation of the active land policy, some mechanisms to prevent agricultural land cultivation, amend certain criminal provisions, introduce certain amendments to the provisions governing the management of fertile land, and also extend into one part of the provisions concerning agricultural land transport, and on agromeliorations. In view of all the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands to the extent submitted by Mr Jože Tanko and the group of Members is not suitable for further consideration, since the proposal does not solve the procedure for the introduction of the comassation in its entirety, as provided for by the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Lands, which is in preparation. If you allow me to say that this week's public debate on the law has been concluded, intensive preparations are under way to prepare a copy of the bill, which is expected to be put into inter-departmental coordination by the end of next week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u8	Good morning, distinguished president, distinguished secretary of state, colleague and colleague! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposed law on amendments to the Agricultural Lands Act. Again, for the third time in this mandate, we have before us a proposal for a law proposed by a group of Members that has the same content as a proposal that we held a general debate in June 2009 and that we have decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. We have already said in the DeSUS Group that we do not support the bill and remain in this opinion today. We understand the intention of the proposer and, at the same time, we believe that the proposal is a good one, but its integrity is questionable, so at this point let us remind ourselves once again that the Government is preparing a novelty of the agricultural land law, which will, inter alia, simplify the process of the introduction of the commotion and the submission of the necessary materials. At the same time, the expected proposal also reduces the threshold for the introduction of commissions, from 80 % to 67 %, as laid down by the Space Regulation and the Rules on the implementation of the Commission. At the same time, it will bring some other solutions that are very important for the further management of agricultural land and consequently for the development of local communities. For this reason, we rejoin the opinion of the Government and the working body that this proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Given that this month's public debate on the government proposal for the Law on Agricultural Lands is ending, we expect that the Ministry will send the novel in a short motion for parliamentary consideration and will be dealt with and adopted as soon as possible. Of course, we expect that the content proposed today by the proposer will also be properly incorporated into this paper, in order to ensure that the proposal is designed to meet all the needs that have been expressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! The amendment of the Law on Agricultural Lands, as proposed by the Group of Members, seeks to bring into line with the Law on the regulation of premises in the field of comitology by proposing an easier imposition of a comitology procedure which could be applied if the property owners of agricultural land owned by more than 67 % of the land area in the envisaged area of comissation agree with the Commission. The fact is that individual agricultural areas in the Republic of Slovenia are quite different and specific, but in particular they have one common feature for the economy and work on agricultural land, which is the critical fragmentation and smallness of farms in many geographical areas. This problem is generally addressed by the Commission, for which the procedure under the current legislation requires a rather high percentage, that is 80% of the consent of the owners of agricultural land. It is true that such a problem, in pronunciations, size structures and fragmentation, is also possible to solve with faster, in a way simpler, consensus-building process, all in order to structure or combine agricultural areas, resulting in better, more efficient and, lastly, cheaper processing of agricultural areas, and certainly the economics of agricultural production is our common objective, and in particular for the benefit of farmers themselves, and can also lead to improved competitiveness in the agro-food sector. It would also be worth mentioning the fact that, unfortunately, the success of the implementation of the comitology procedures is very different across the various agricultural areas across the Republic of Slovenia, very different, which can also be understood, as Slovenia, if I say so, is a well-known, geographically, traditionally, historically highly-written country and are very different factors that may affect the understanding, acceptance and implementation of the comitology procedures. Thus, in the Pomur region, the introduction of comassations is quite satisfactory. The data that we have managed to introduce and implement in 25 areas of the commotions on more than 4 thousand 500 hectares is certainly encouraging. Unfortunately, this will not apply to all agricultural areas in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the proposed legislation in question is in place, justified and meaningful, and we will certainly support it, despite the fact that the Government or the Ministry of Agriculture has already rejected this proposal in advance, with a multiple of "complete solutions" with a new proposal for an agricultural land law. And we can only hope that the Members of this Assembly will have the opportunity to obtain it at the table. Otherwise, there are some reservations and concerns about the persons responsible for the implementation and implementation of the commotion procedures, such as the fear of an increase in complaints and dissatisfaction with the commotion participants, and what else could be listed, which would cause problems in these cases, but quite resolutionable. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we support the proposal for a law and we will vote in favour of the conclusion that the bill is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Greetings to colleagues and colleagues and to the Secretary of State, who is currently replacing the Minister, who is working hard and is also successful in solving a number of agricultural problems, and one of them will also be dealing with agricultural land cuts. The fact is that in order to produce food and feed, which is of strategic importance in our country and society, we need agricultural land. That is why the proposal made by a respected colleague, Mr Tanko, is on the spot; it is substantively solving the right issue, it is going in the right direction, but of course it is modest, it is not ambitious and insufficient. That this proposal is on the ground, is also evidenced by the fact that the Agricultural Lands Act, which will be introduced into the parliamentary procedure earlier than 14 days, summarizes and includes this solution and upgrades it and improves it with new solutions, which will be necessary, accelerated and improved in this country. I repeat this from this place from 9 a.m. forward, in 20 minutes the second time, and I hope that this will be taken into account that it will not happen to us, that it will be possible this afternoon or tomorrow for political reasons or objectives in the procedure we will have this law for the fourth time. So I repeat: the solution is in place, but it is too modest, too ambitious and insufficient. I look forward to the debate and the broad support this law has announced before the introduction, which I am sure will be before the November holidays in Parliament. Slovenians and Slovenians have quite a few problems in relation to agricultural land. The first is that we are speeding up these lands. Within 20 years of our independence, we have managed to build as many as 62,000 hectares and with 800 square metres of agricultural land per capita, we are on the tail of the members of the European Union. We can hear from the media every day that we are able to build daily there between 7 and 11 hectares of agricultural land, which is indeed a worrying information. Secondly, agricultural land is also being lost due to growth. During the period from independence to today, we have managed to leave between 35 and 40 thousand hectares of such land to the teeth of time and nature. We are also faced with an unpleasant, modest, self-sustaining structure, which has improved in recent years, from a modest 5.4 hectares on the emancipation of today's 6.5 hectares, which is still far too small. One of the important measures that can be improved in this area is, for sure, the composition with which the land, its area, on the farm, can become larger and better. That is why, in this third attempt, we are embarrassed by the proposalers in the Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The fact is that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food did not hold the timeline for objective reasons. It must be said that we have also experienced the replacement of one agricultural minister with another, whose actions and promises are clear and, above all, his words are accompanied by actions. That is why I think it is right for us to take 14 more days of time, and together let us prepare a good law, if necessary, and upgrade it in Parliament and adopt it. The area of operation of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food has been the one that has been least exposed to politicisation in the previous mandates. I am pleased that the chairman of the committee is also taking the matter this way. I am confident that when the Agricultural Lands Act arrives, we will reach a high consensus and adopt a law that will increase the ownership structure and will be adopted in the National Assembly by a majority vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Alan Bukovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, a nice welcome on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In our Group of Members, we note that we have already rejected the same bill in this mandate and have warned every time that the solution it offers is not comprehensive. Any statement by the motioner about the groundless reasons for rejecting the bill and promising that a comprehensive bill will soon be on our parliamentary benches can easily be answered in a highly reasoned manner. The proposal forgets that we have been without a minister in the agricultural sector for two months this year. The current version of the proposal for a law on agricultural land was just before it came into government procedure when the former minister resigned. With the resignation of the Minister, the procedure for drafting the bill was also suspended. The new Minister, Mr Dejan Židan, is a minister for less than six months. And under his leadership and under all circumstances, a more comprehensive proposal for a law is coming into the legislative procedure very quickly. The proposal for a law has already been brought by the Minister through public hearing and sent as an addition to it for government consideration before the end of this month or at the beginning of the next month. It should also be noted that other legislation on agriculture, forestry and nutrition is being prepared. In our opinion, the bill offers an incomplete solution to the procedure for the execution of the comassation. A change in the threshold for agreement on a deal between 80 and 67% would be only one, otherwise an important tool that would allow faster and easier execution of the commotion, but only one. The coalition or government proposal includes this same percentage for a simple reason because it is original. It existed in the first draft of the law before the opposition submitted its first proposal to the legislative procedure. Obviously, this is once again a copy of the article in the draft law prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. And let me point out once again, as I have already done, if and when a student in college is preparing his final work by copying some of the facts from other documents, he also writes a source. In this case, the proposer could write: We are introducing a new law on agricultural land, and the source for this proposal is the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food – a comprehensive proposal for a law on agricultural land. However, the implementation of the commotion procedure must first take into account any harmonisation of all information on land. It is therefore necessary to align the information from the cadastra with those prescribed to the land by the graphic unit of agricultural land use and the actual intended use of the land. All of this is inevitably linked to the challenges of registering real estate or geodetic activities and, more broadly, to environmental protection, spatial planning and building. As regards end-use and spatial planning, it is necessary to stress compliance with the emerging division into permanent agricultural land and other agricultural land. This must be strictly taken into account in conjunction with the commotion procedures. Simplification of certain administrative procedures will also be carried out with all of these. All of this must be inserted precisely in the Agricultural Lands Act and its sub-legislative acts if it is in our interest that the commissions are actually carried out more effectively than possible today. This bill does not contain this, so we will once again vote in the Group of Social Democrats in favour of concluding that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rado Likar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a bill amending the Agricultural Lands Act, submitted by a group of Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank, is supported or voted against by the Slovenian Democratic Party that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Following the current Law on Agricultural Lands, a proposal for the introduction of a comassation procedure may be submitted if the Commission agrees with the owners of agricultural land owned by more than 80 % of the land area of the envisaged area. However, with the amendment of the law, we want to bring into line with the Law on the regulation of premises in the field of commissions, so that a proposal can be made for the introduction of a commotion procedure, provided that the Commission agrees with the owners of land owned by more than 67 % of the land area in the envisaged area of the Commission. This measure would facilitate the creation and rounding of agricultural holdings in the Slovenian countryside. This would also make it possible to produce more competitively and to provide an economic minimum for the maintenance of family farms. While the proposal is good, but it is not comprehensive, you are all repeating it in one voice, but for more than a year we have been waiting for the promise of the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture that this area will be adequately addressed in a comprehensive and systematic manner. The law also makes sense to support me for this reason because, according to the Minister, the Government intends to set the same threshold in its law as we propose in our proposal. In any case, according to the Minister of Agriculture, we lose 7 hectares of the best agricultural land per day, which is more than one average farm. I don't know if we're aware of what this means for self-sustaining home-cooked food. If the law does not receive support simply because of procedural obstacles, we will lose everyone, and especially our farmers and the countryside. As stated in the introduction, we will vote against the decision taken on the parental committee that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franci Kek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. At the Ministry of Agriculture, they are actively preparing a law that will address the problems of agricultural land in a more comprehensive manner. We hope that this intensity will also produce early results, that this proposal will be appropriate and that we will be able to support it in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I understand, however, that we will not support this proposal or vote in favour. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u20	We talk about agriculture many times and we are very united in the problems that Slovenian agriculture is not competitive, that Slovenian agriculture has come short of food. All of us find that one of the main reasons for these first two problems is the large fragmentation of agricultural land, and we also find that agricultural land is growing massively, and they are also growing. And the proposal put forward by the SDS Group is a proposal to introduce an instrument, a tool to respond to a number of these problems. The source for such a solution was also mentioned earlier. I have to fix my colleague Bukovnik, the source of this solution is the written source, the municipality of Krško, the expert co-worker Magda Krošelj, the date, May 2009, the joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Committee on the Environment and Space in Posavje, the discussion on this and written materials were given in the municipality of Krško. And then why did this proposal come? I think I can speak very competently about this again as a Member of the Mayor. At that moment, in the municipality of Krško, where we are aware of ground operations, we were in the introduction of the comassation area for the thousand-hectare area of Krske Polje, the best plains that is growing the fastest in the municipality of Krško due to this problem of fragmentation of agricultural land. Since we were unable to introduce the commotion areas in the thousand-hectare area, because we were directly between 67 and 80 percent, we first put forward a proposal for this amendment to the law. Since we saw what was going on in the National Assembly, we had to divide this area into four neighbourhoods, and relatively quickly we had 80% for the first neighbourhood, and for the other three we needed until the end of last year. What's going on today? Today, in this first area of the European Union-funded comissation, with 25% of the countries and procedures and improvements in agricultural land, we are waiting for the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to call for a bid for a comissation to be completed by the end of last year. Once this call is made, we will only be able to begin these procedures. Why am I talking about this case? To say very clearly what it means to object to the proposal in the National Assembly because it is clearly proposed by the wrong parliamentary group and proposed by someone from the opposition and is a basic reason to argue that this will be regulated in the system law. I also agree that this system law is needed; it is very ambitious; I wish the Minister and his team much success in adopting this law. Unfortunately, this law should already be adopted last autumn, this spring, and also this autumn. It is a matter of serious actions; this intervention we are talking about is less demanding and I think it could have been politically, as it is heard from the explanations of the groups of Members, for one year. That's why I think we're doing one again in a series of nonsensees in the National Assembly that we're doing for the sake of principle, because it's not a real proponent. I am opposed to such a way of working, but for substantive reasons I have very vividly illustrated to you what it means to have a mind, not a political defiance. For all this, we will once again support this law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group and hope that it will receive at least now this support, from the views we have heard before, I fear that the law will share the fate of the previous two processes, and that Slovenian agriculture will be given this fate, which Slovenian policy has also given it in recent decades.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided on Tuesday 26th. Ten. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is a third-party proposal for a law on the detection of the possibility of invalids, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u22	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We can give this law an introduction saying that Slovenia is a social and legal country with a modern policy of disability protection. That is why we ratified the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2008. By becoming part of the internal legal order, Slovenia has further committed itself to ensuring and promoting the full realization of all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all persons with disabilities without any discrimination due to disability. Therefore, the proposal for a law on the equalization of opportunities for persons with disabilities constitutes the application of the principles and commitments resulting from this Convention. It shall in particular regulate the following areas: prohibition of discrimination on the grounds of disability, measures to equalize opportunities for persons with disabilities, holders of tasks, their powers and obligations, and procedures in cases of discrimination due to disability. The proposal is intended to prevent discrimination, which means any distinction, exclusion or restriction, for reasons of disability, the purpose or effect of which is to reduce or eliminate the equal recognition, enjoyment or exercise of all rights and obligations in all key areas of life. It defines multiple forms of discrimination, such as indirect, direct, rejection of appropriate adaptation and harassment. This part fully follows the purpose set out in the Convention. Furthermore, it is important that all entities can be in a legal order, i.e. persons with disabilities and potential offenders, responsible for the enforcement of this law. And, of course, other laws that prohibit discrimination due to disability also regulate it, and the law applies to them. All public authorities should be particularly exposed to these entities. This is also why amendments were adopted in the second reading of the bill, which sanction certain forms of disability discrimination by law. Furthermore, it should be pointed out, as provided for in Article 5 of the law, that the exercise of the rights of persons with disabilities is also subject to non-discriminatory provisions and provisions that ensure equalization of opportunities under other rules. Notwithstanding the provisions of other laws, the provisions of this Act shall apply if they are more favourable to persons with disabilities. In addition to the devices provided under other regulations, disabled persons may also apply under this law devices to overcome communication barriers and adapt the car. The establishment of a call centre for hearing impaired persons is also envisaged. The Disability Equalization Act will make an important contribution to the elimination of situations that discriminate against persons with disabilities, so allow me to thank on this occasion all those who participated in the preparation of this law, especially those with disabilities, their disability organisations, professional organisations, all ministries and the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u24	Say good-bye to everyone again. Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we fully support the proposal for a law on the equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities, although some are not fully satisfied with the proposed law as a whole and have reasonable comments and concerns in certain details. They indicate some inconsistencies, the laxity of the times set, the lack of accessibility of services for persons with disabilities, as well as overall shortcomings in the fight against discrimination against persons with disabilities. This, of course, can be debated and even debated, since the fact that it is virtually impossible to write a law in which no one could find any shortcomings, is certainly the purpose and purpose of the law good, especially if I point out only Article 6 which explicitly defines the prohibition of discrimination against persons with disabilities before state authorities, public authorities and local authorities and public authorities. The law includes various measures to equalise the opportunities of persons with disabilities, in particular with regard to the provision of technical tools to overcome barriers in the environment. The right to co-finance communication barriers, to pay the costs of adapting the vehicle and to establish a call centre for deaf and deaf persons should be highlighted in the first instance. Disability is a group that is still exposed to a certain degree of discrimination in certain environments. I therefore believe that, among other things, criminal provisions are of great importance in respect of the legal provisions and the related effective prevention and elimination of discrimination, all with a view to ensuring equal opportunities for the disabled in all areas of life. The Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs promises to co-finance from the State budget the implementation of specific social programmes that enable people with disabilities to become more socially involved or complement the offer of public services. In particular, programmes will be co-financed to enable more independent lives of people with disabilities, enabling the active life and work of persons with disabilities who offer psychosocial assistance to persons with disabilities and their families, advocacy and self-help programmes, and could also include some very good proposals. We certainly consider this to be very positive in the Slovenian National Party. We can say with a clear conscience that in Slovenia we are aware of the commitments made to us by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. At the same time, if we think that 7 to 9% of the people living in Slovenia who are such or different types of people with disabilities live among us, we can say that the attitude towards people with disabilities in Slovenia has changed substantially in a positive direction. We will therefore definitely vote in favour of the bill in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on equalization of opportunities for disabled persons brings many new, good solutions for disabled persons in Slovenia, so we will support the proposal for a law in the LDS Club. Marriage solutions will make life and work easier for many disabled people. Some of these solutions will come into force immediately and others in a somewhat longer transitional period. In Slovenia, it is estimated that between 7 and 9% of the population, who are disabled and those who live with them and who also feel their problems strongly, are much more. Some of the solutions in the law are technical and financial in nature, such as procedures for access to and funding for appropriate devices to overcome the communication barriers of the blind and the deaf. The law gives a lot of attention to financing and the vehicle adjustment procedure, which is of utmost importance for traffic-obstructed persons, because without a suitable vehicle they are sentenced to dependence on other people, paid aid or reduced their mobility to a minimum. The law defines adaptation in public transport and lays down deadlines for adaptation. In this case, it is a long adjustment period, which is unfortunately a reflection of the real situation, as it is difficult to ask carriers in bus, rail and maritime transport to adapt their fleet very quickly. The further important content of this law is the establishment of a call centre for deaf and deaf. Through the centre, hearing impaired persons will be able to obtain information from public authorities, local authorities, public authorities and public service providers and public services. The law establishes certain rights of persons with disabilities whom the rest of the population considers to be self-sustaining, for example, the right or access to information, since, for example, the blind and deaf do not help ordinary information channels much without different technological adjustments. Also, accessibility to cultural goods, visiting performances, museums, cultural heritage monuments and their full enjoyment of disabled people is not self-evident. In doing so, we are still only aware of the need to remove built barriers, which is only part of the problem. It is important that the right to the cultural creativity of persons with disabilities and the conditions for the implementation of these persons are also included. In the LDS, we warn that disability is, as a rule, still linked to discrimination, and even though this is legally prohibited, there is a reality. Appropriate legislation is needed to effectively eliminate discrimination. Education, public awareness and decision-makers are also needed. The combination of all this gives us the possibility of a long-term improvement in the situation and of achieving the ultimate goal of ensuring the full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms. The law also establishes the possibility of the participation of disabled organisations in anti-discrimination procedures and their equal participation in proceedings. The legislative guidelines follow all legal definitions of the fight against discrimination and the provision of equal human rights and fundamental freedoms both in the Slovenian Constitution, which states that disability is a personal circumstance on which a person must not be discriminated against, as in all other laws in Slovenian legislation, as well as in international conventions. The LDS has always advocated the consistent realization of the rights of persons with disabilities, the improvement of the situation in this area, the equality of all citizens and citizens. In order to equalise opportunities for all, it is possible to involve them in the functioning of society, their employment and their involvement in education. This prevents people with disabilities from being excluded from society and prevents a higher risk of poverty. The implementation of greater involvement of people with disabilities in social life will also be aimed at co-financing specific social programmes for the integration of persons with disabilities into society. These programmes will be implemented as complements to public services and will be tailored to the individual needs of individuals. In the LDS, we are convinced that the law and implementation of its solutions will significantly help improve the lives of people with disabilities and ensure equal access to services and public goods. Every step that makes it possible to improve the situation is why we welcome and support the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u28	Dear Mr. President! Director of Directorates, colleagues and colleagues, hello! In opening, I would like to point out that the proposal for a law on the equalization of opportunities for persons with disabilities, together with the Act on the implementation of the principle of equal treatment and other rules on the elimination of discrimination, provides a legal framework for the comprehensive resolution of all key issues related to discrimination and the equalization of opportunities for persons with disabilities. It means a further step towards the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and, of course, the extension of their rights. Once again, Members and Members, in particular those who have worked within the Committee on Labour, the Family and Social Affairs and the disabled, have made great efforts in all stages of the bill's proposal to find the greatest possible measure of compromise on the measures we have incorporated into the law on the basis of the wish of the disabled, taking into account the limitations of the social economic situation of the society in which we are currently located and, of course, what is particularly important, also the legal framework in which we operate. I am pleased that in the second reading of the proposal, Members and Members of Parliament have acted constructively and supported the amendments on the amended text of the law. This has shown both personal and political sensitivity to the needs of persons with disabilities, attitudes against discrimination against persons with disabilities and the will to enable them to participate as best as possible in society and thus realize human rights. In the second reading, we have therefore confirmed the text of a law in which we have reintroduced criminal provisions and some other provisions to facilitate the feasibility of certain rights that are of key importance to individual groups of persons with disabilities. Members of the Social Democrats' Group will support the law because we are convinced that it allows for a better quality of the right of people with disabilities in all areas of life and their more equal integration into society. However, we would like this support to be fully experienced by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! On the balcony, I welcome the delegation of the Committee on Health, Labour and Social Affairs of the Parliament of the Republic of Kosovo. I wish them a pleasant stay in Ljubljana, Slovenia and a successful working visit to our Parliament [[Applause]] . The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be represented by Marijan Pojbič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u30	In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have not changed our position at the plenary session at the second reading of the law in question, and in the introduction I would like to say that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will not support the proposal for a law on equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities and, of course, it will not oppose it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are aware that in the area covered by the proposed law, it is essential to adopt better solutions than is currently the case, but the dictated law does not solve the problem in a way that is acceptable to most disabled organisations. At the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, where the proposed law was dealt with, and also at the second reading and plenary session of the National Assembly, several amendments to the coalition were submitted and adopted, i.e. coalition parliamentary groups that were not in line with the disability organisations. They made it very clear on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities that before the amendment was tabled, they agreed with the bill and that the proposed amendments tabled by the coalition did not support them, as they estimate that these amendments change the concept of a law that is not suitable for persons with disabilities. Therefore, these are key reasons why we will not impose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, since it has once again been shown that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not listen and does not take into account in the drafting of the law of those which this law deals with, but is once again insisting on a poorly prepared law which, according to our assessment, will solve the problem in question, instead of listening to the disability organisations and proposing legislation that would be written on the skin of persons with disabilities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we do not want such an important law to be an empty letter on paper and cannot be implemented in practice in terms of eliminating discrimination against persons with disabilities. Since in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group we also assess that the amendments tabled and adopted at the plenary session of the National Assembly did not correct the bill in such a way as to be acceptable to most disabled organisations, we will not support this proposal, of course we will abstain from deciding on this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished guests! The presentation of the position in today's third reading by the Zares Group – the new policy will not change significantly, as the only reason for the re-extension and discussion of the adoption of a number of amendments under the second reading is. The law before us, as has already been said, primarily covers the area of equal opportunities and non-discrimination of persons with disabilities and is intended to complement existing legislation as such and to contribute to a more comprehensive approach and to the elimination and prevention of discrimination based on disability. The importance and, in fact, the dissatisfaction of solutions was already recognized at the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Disabled, and at the 20th plenary session, where the participants tried to make a number of proposals and well-intentioned comments, both by the disabled organisations and by the representative of the equal opportunities in the debate on the labour market, as well as by the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. While this broad debate may raise doubts or questions about the quality of the preparation of the law itself and the content in the direction of maximum appropriate regulation of the area prepared at the relevant professional points or under the pressure of illegal, partial interests. Regardless of the many questions, doubts and pressures raised in the Group of Members, we are really convinced that the new policy is the law for the benefit of the disabled. We believe, however, that it will not be in the interest of individual disability organisations, as he pointed out by his colleague Pojbič, which, according to our assessment, is another topic or other area. On this occasion, I should like to reiterate that the solutions resulting from the proposal for a law are welcome in order to define precisely the duties we have in preventing discrimination between countries, local communities and all others. The key task of the law is to systematically prevent discrimination on the one hand and to promote equal treatment on the other. All the debates so far show, and in our Group of Members, we are convinced that this area must be tackled in a complex and, in particular, at different points of reference, on the assumption of the unadaptability and lack of access to the environment, which is the reason for putting persons with disabilities in an unequal position rather than on the disadvantage of the environment. Regardless of today's adoption of the law, we have yet to take a huge step from medical understanding to the social model of solving the disability problem. This is the only way we will follow the principles of inclusiveness and individual approach. As it is said, in the Group of Members, we will really – we will support the new policy of the bill before us. Again, I would like to point out that we will also actively participate in any further necessary debates on better regulation of this area, including all the ministries within the scope of their work covering the issue in question. The fact is that the first contact with state institutions is already very early, in the child welfare phase, later in school, and it is therefore necessary to take the first steps that will shift the understanding of the problem of disabled people from medical to social understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the law, because in our view, in the second reading, the amendments were properly corrected and supplemented and the warnings of disabled representatives were at least partially taken into account. We estimate that the proposal for a law is, however, a step towards improving and equalising the opportunities of people with disabilities, as it sets out more specifically the procedures and the commitment to implement the provisions on the accessibility of persons with disabilities to services, to remove obstacles and to establish the right to help. In doing so, we must point out that there is also a need to make some adjustments in the National Assembly so that people with disabilities can participate equally as visitors, employees or as Members. Many meetings rooms and wheelchairs are now unavailable, despite the fact that we are adopting laws in this house that bind others to remove obstacles. In the second reading on the home working body, we proposed an amendment to Article 19 to simplify the procedure for the acquisition of disability devices and to point out the irregularity and inadmissibility of the social work centres to choose and at the same time issue decisions on devices. Our amendment was reasonably summarised in the amendment to this Article 19. We will support the law, as it is high time that adequate mechanisms are put in place to prevent and eliminate discrimination against disabled persons and disabled persons based on disability and begin to create equal opportunities for disabled persons in all areas of life and work. We also expect the Law on Personal Assistance, which, while in the Government's normative programme for this year, provides, among other things, for personal assistance services intended to assist and assist in education, assistance in the workplace and assistance in other activities and activities in which the disabled will be actively involved. As it is said, the Act on the Equalization of the Opportunities for Persons with Disabilities will be supported by Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u36	Dear Mr President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! In the DeSUS Group, we have already said at our previous meeting of the National Assembly that we are taking the law as an important step forward in our efforts to ensure and apply equal opportunities for the inclusion of persons with disabilities in all areas of life. It is therefore very important that we are aware that this law entails a prohibition of discrimination based on disability and by establishing measures that allow for the equalization of the opportunities of persons with disabilities, a framework of commitments for society as a whole. It must be sensitive enough to comprehend the importance of independence and autonomy in the life of any disabled person. Not only is this their desire and right, but here are their relatives, friends who face very different obstacles daily, which do not allow equal and quality integration of disabled people into everyday life. The Act on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities actually touches all areas of social life where treatment of persons with disabilities must be particularly careful to them. In the procedures before state and local authorities and public authorities, in overcoming communication and architectural barriers, in access to public transport means and, of course, in the field of education, health, cultural goods, residence. Of course, it is necessary to know that it is meant as a general umbrella law, since other sectoral rules are also important to the realization of the rights of persons with disabilities in terms of equal treatment. I should also like to say again that, of course, we expect further involvement of the state-of-the-art ministry in order to improve the quality of life of all persons with disabilities; that they will be as independent as possible of the material assistance of their neighbours, that personal assistance and other possible forms of assistance be established and that special attention be paid to the employment of persons with disabilities. We give all the support to the bill in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members, followed by a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. The word is Vito Rojej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In addition to the things I said in the presentation of the opinion of the parliamentary group, I might also touch on the comments that have been made here by those who will not support the law. The changes that we introduced into the law on the home labour body and caused dissatisfaction by at least some of the disabled organisations or their leaders were in the first place and, in particular, the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service. It therefore points out that the law must be in accordance with the other legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Even if the desires of anyone — whether they are now disabled or not — are different, they must adhere to this legal order, which is binding on all of us. A personal handicap should not be an excuse for us to take into account more or less of the legislation — not only in the field, but all of it — more or less; no, it is a personal circumstance that we will try to ease as much as possible by such laws as we can today, and, of course, from it, I cannot say the advantage, but at least that we will no longer see it as a weakness, and the fact is that all the rest of the legislation must be respected. And if now opposition to this law is on this side because we have taken into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service or consequently the Slovenian legal order, then I will take it up and I think I am right at this point. Secondly, as has already been said by my colleague Urha in his presentation of the opinion of the parliamentary group, that new laws are coming in which we will set up this area in a different way, in a more individual way, I imagine that such regulation of this issue will not be an opportunity for all of us to feel like a civilisation leap forward, that people with disabilities can take care of themselves in as few groups as possible, or literally, individually, if only, with the aids and adaptation of the environment in which they live, that any dependence, but even if it is by well-meaning persons, is not good and is unproductive for each of us to be confident. Here may be certain monopolies or what I know; some customs have had to change quickly, but for the human dignity of each one of those whom this law and all those who are to come from this area, it seems to me only good. This applies both to this law, which would be mentioned, on personal assistance, and of course to amendments to school and other legislation, which we will also seek in our group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Greetings to the co-workers of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs! I must say that you are doing important and necessary work and that the law before us today certainly makes life easier for almost every 10 people in our country. Therefore, I would be delighted if this law had many advocates and no opponent, but the problem is, as with this law and with many others, that all of a sudden, because of limited financial and other possibilities, unfortunately, it is impossible to do so. But this is an area in which we have a lot of work ahead of us, but with each step the beaten step in the right direction is that the people whose opportunities are equal to the others in this country are more. I remember some of the events that I participated in, or as mayor or as a Member, how little it is ever necessary for a certain thing to be improved, corrected and thought about every day, not only in this law, but also in general in the construction of buildings. Let me tell you one example: with one simple induction loop in a space, in a hall that costs perhaps 2 000, 2 000, 500 euros – how many people with hearing problems can make life easier by simple construction! I am sure, and I know that there are still many such areas; of those who have problems with vision, hearing and so on, I will support every step in the direction that improves the condition of the affected persons. I will also do so in the case of this Act on the Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities, and thank all those who have worked in this area, and I recommend them to participate in all further steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Well, by the way, as you probably know, such an induction loop is installed in this room. The word is Marian Krizman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member and Members, representatives of the Ministry! Of course, I will support the Equalization Act, for one simple reason, because it is the most important and if I can only mention the most important sets of measures that are defined. That is: the prohibition of discrimination, which I think is very important due to disability, measures to equalize the opportunities of people with disabilities – especially here we are referring to employment, social inclusion and the inclusion of persons with disabilities in society at all – the identification of the holders of tasks and their responsibilities and obligations, the procedures in the dispute over disability-based discrimination and the management of databases and data protection. We had no amendments from the disabled on the Labour and Family Committee, but unfortunately we could not follow the rules of procedure because they had been tabled too late, but all that was agreed and agreed with the disabled themselves was taken into account and introduced into this law. This law also confers one advantage, for here we have a number of solutions in one place and a few possibilities for disabled persons to live a little better on this right of non-discrimination. My predecessor has already talked about deaf, deaf, visually impaired and so on, one hundred and one problem with employment and no problems with social inclusion; if you want, before the courts, after all, when you get on a bus in any Slovenian city. And a big step, perhaps a small step for society, but a big step for people with disabilities, is that in the next purchase of city buses we will also think about disabled people and allow them to engage equally and take advantage of or benefit from urban transport and be more mobile. Because disability itself does not give some financial advantage to the affected and the individual, because if we were so rich, we could otherwise organize our lives and afford many things that we can be those who, thank God, are not disabled, we can afford. It is therefore necessary to have so much more reason and certain things to accept and arrange all that can be done to make life easier for them. Last but not least, in our country, it's as small as, if I may say, every 12 disabled citizen. This is not a joke, is it, or is it not a matter that you could do just that – of course, all kinds of disabled people, doubles, to persons with disabilities due to traffic accidents, which unfortunately, most and also every day more, need to be well taken care of for this target group? For the disabled have the right to participate in life, in society, to participate in it, and to make their contribution. However, they will make their contribution if we are to remove mainly architectural obstacles and all those other obstacles that are in the heads that can be removed and thus, of course, take care of the disabled, so that they can prepare a suitable basis for them to participate in society and participate and do everything that we all do in this society. That's why I'm happy to support this marriage. He came in on time. I hope that a new side will also be opened for the disabled by this law, which I believe will benefit them. Last but not least, no law has been passed for a thousand years. All laws change. Things and circumstances are changing, so will this law, and when necessary, of course, this law will also be complemented and offered to target groups or to this target group in such a content that will be needed again in due course and in such a way that this target group, in this case disabled persons, can apply and improve their position and, above all, equal inclusion in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The law that we are discussing today is the Law on Equalization of the Possibilities of Persons with Disabilities, it is certainly the law that we need, which we have been waiting for for a while and is now ahead of us. We basically support all those proposals that improve this area and make life easier for the disabled living among us, but we are less satisfied with it. There were quite a few comments on the committee by the disabled organisations, but also for a long time we coordinated some articles and stopped at each one because some things were written differently than they were agreed or as the representatives of the disabled organisations wanted. However, I believe that most solutions are good in spite of all the good ones and will mean some improvements. However, it is probably true that some are not the most optimistic and could also take a step more than we did. I'm going to listen to the debates and somehow decide how we're going to vote. Although we have foretold that we will not oppose the law. Some solutions, as we say, are optimal and good, and some of them may be a little more bold, and they may even hope to take a step further.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word is Miran Györek. [[He's quitting.]] The word is Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u46	Dear President! Also, colleague Alenka Jeraj said, as I myself said in the position of the Group of Members, that we will not oppose this law. The reasons I've given, why we won't support him, I think they're sufficiently reasoned and clear. Disability organisations made it very clear that they agreed with the law until amendments to the coalition were tabled. And because the coalition amendments were tabled, disability organizations felt that they could influence the concept of law. This seems very important to me because disability organisations are those organisations that represent people with disabilities in specific areas. Of course, it is clear to me, as well as to the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, that maximum involvement should be made in solving the problem faced by persons with disabilities, including the absolute elimination of discrimination against persons with disabilities. I personally claim that there are some good things in this law, and that is also why we do not oppose this law. I would also like to say what my fellow Member from Zares has tried to point out that in the Slovenian Democratic Party they should oppose the amendments tabled on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. This seems ridiculous to me and below every level, because I do not understand how we could defend the concept of a law that does not have legal coverage; that is an absolute fact. Therefore, once again, we do not oppose this law; we look forward to every solution that is good, positive and that is written on the skin of the disabled. The reason why we will not support the law in the final stage is that I have already stated in the position of the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Replica, Vito Rojej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I would like to make it clear that, if I were to say under quotations, it was possible that my conclusion could have been on two bends. I didn't mean to say what my colleague Pojbič understood, so I'm gonna try to be clearer. The opposition of disabled organisations to the bill, as is now before us, was, in your opinion, mainly due to the amendments adopted by the committee. However, the amendments adopted by the Committee were largely adopted on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Now we can conclude – and because of the opposition of disabled organisations, you yourself have said that you are still thinking about it and are hesitant about whether or not you would support the proposal for a law. So, I can see that these things are connected, really, they're three connections, but I think I've made myself clear. However, I did not mean to say that your party opposes solutions that are in line with the legal order of this country. Although if you conclude this conclusion, it seems simple to me, so I also hope that you will reconsider and support this law. I see this reason for your opposition as insufficiently justified, but of course your business is whether you will see it yourself or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. The Assembly will decide on a proposal for a law on Tuesday, 26. Ten. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY — THIRD DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A SMALL-BREAKDOWN LAW, ORIGINAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The word should be given to the representative of the Government, Minister, but I am informed that he is at the government meeting today. However, I do not think there are any problems with this. When he arrives, he will be given, within the time that the Government has, a place to discuss, so we will skip the position of the Government's representative. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dejan Levanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the last days we have received many warnings from Members and Members, if people are looking at you, so do not accept something that is less human rights or changes their current situation in any way. The answer to those who care about how Members of Parliament decide is simple: No one in this Chamber would accept anything that would wrong anyone, on the contrary! With proposals for laws, we want to arrange some things in this country to the extent that they will be fairer, more solidarity and for the benefit of all, but not just certain groups. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that there are many things unsettled in our country and that many things need to be changed for the better. This is also the case with the Small Work Act, since all the three groups covered by the law bear those rights that they have not had so far. However, we do not understand the insistence of certain groups on an existing situation that is bad and urgently needs to be changed. Much of the occasional and occasional work in Slovenia is also done in the context of work and employment in black. Employers are therefore increasingly using non-standard forms of work, and more and more people are doing work that is of an occasional and informal nature, so it is imperative to set a clear framework for the performance of these works, set standards and provide these workers with comparable rights from work and social insurance. This is a small work law, and these are the conditions for the preservation of the social state. The Small Work Act will reduce the scope of work and employment in black as it introduces a new possibility of legal performance of paid work, which may also have elements of a working relationship, under more favourable conditions for the employer. To a large extent, small work will maintain flexibility, which has been typical of student work today, but the novelty is that basic social security rights will be guaranteed at the same time, which does not apply to student work. Student work is now one of the most neoliberal forms of youth employment, without any rights, even in the case of employers' failure to pay and the provision of basic social rights. It is therefore our responsibility to ensure, in the first place, that the student spends more time on the study than on the study. And, of course, we must also provide conditions for work during the study, but with clear criteria that will primarily protect the rights of students and students and allow them adequate safety in the labour market. The student work, as we know today, has been safe in the past, i.e. in history, a social correction that has allowed many to afford the work of studies at all - despite the fact that studies in Slovenia are supposed to be free of charge. And the purpose is not to make the situation of students and students worse; quite the contrary! And all together, we must answer one key question: Does the small work law harm students and students? The answer is, in our opinion, no. On the contrary, for students, this law means a great deal of gain. There's a lot of arguments for that. With this law, we meet two main objectives: the social security of students on the one hand and the conditions for students to be able to study. So, we're giving scholarships. We have already ensured this in the law on the exercise of rights from public funds, and a law on scholarships is being prepared. In contrast to the other two groups, which I will talk about a little later, the student will also be able to adapt his work to the study process because he will be able to work 14 hours a week or 60 hours a month or 4 months a year. In doing so, it will be able to earn 6,000 euros, and more than 80% of the students are already below this earning margin. In addition, there will be many more scholarships, which is one of the key objectives, so that we can provide basic conditions for study. The Small Work Act also sets a minimum hourly rate of 4 euros. In the current system, the labour market has been completely abandoned, ranging from €2 to €55 per hour, a clear sign that there have been various anomalies and irregularities. The Small Work Act also eliminates abuse, as there will be greater control over the issue of travel tickets. Students will also be protected from those who do not pay. Today, if the student was not paid by the employer, he could not claim this payment from anyone, some student services had certain funds, but these funds were often emptied in the first half of the year. This will now be regulated within the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment and the student will be able to receive this payment if he does not receive payment from the employer. The financing of student organisations is also a major apple of the dispute. These are now shrinking because, frankly, this money has been used many times also for things that were not originally intended for students, but will still have so much, and this ensures them a small work law to maintain their autonomy and that projects for students can function smoothly in the future. At this point, we agree that students' organisations are losing their jobs by the Small Work Act and that they are gaining students from the point of view of student social security and the opportunity to work in the course of their studies, so we will, of course, support them in the Group of Social Democrats. The Small Work Bill also provides that the unemployed may be able to do little work. In doing so, we would like to give the unemployed, above all, the opportunity to maintain active contact with the labour market and with employers during the period of unemployment, and to maintain working habits and to build on knowledge and skills, while at the same time at least partially compensating for the loss of regular income. Active inclusion in the labour market will make a person less exposed to falling into the trap of long-term unemployment, while also strengthening his self-image with activity. It is also important that small hours of work are counted for the unemployed during retirement and working experience, which, of course, will help them to find a regular job. Small work can also lead to regular employment, as this way the employer can learn and test the worker in the workplace and the institution can, through active employment policy measures, encourage the transition of the unemployed to a regular working relationship. In all this, the fact that doing a small job for an unemployed person will not constitute an obligation or a loss of rights acquired as an unemployed person is important. These rights remain, the law gives unemployed persons only the possibility of earning additional earnings and obtaining regular employment, we are talking mainly about new work experience, social inclusion, etc. Finally, the Small Work Act also allows the employment of pensioners. In Slovenia, due to early retirement there are many pensioners who are under 60 years of age and have the ability, especially the desire to remain active even after retirement. In 2006, the average age of retirement in Slovenia was 59.8 years. Compared to the EU average, Slovenia is one of the countries that register one of the lowest employment rates for older persons aged 55 to 64. Pensioners are already actively working under civil law contracts, and many are also working in black because they do not have other options in the current system. According to Dursa, in 2008, 173,000 people received income from the second pension ratio, of which 33,000 were pensioners. Pensioners work for many reasons; some work to improve their standard of living or to afford additional activities in terms of vacations, recreation or other services that they could not afford by pension alone. Some work because they want to remain active in terms of both physical and mental abilities. Work activity also means greater self-confidence for a number of pensioners, while maintaining and strengthening contacts with other people through work and engaging in social life. The Small Work Act will introduce the possibility of carrying out a paid, short-term or occasional work for pensioners, without prejudice to their already acquired pension entitlements, while at the same time contributing to small-scale benefits for projects aimed at greater social inclusion of pensioners. For these reasons, we will also support the draft Small Work Act in the Third reading in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alenka Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u52	Good afternoon. We will not support the Small Work Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We've already mentioned the reasons several times. Again, the main problem seems to us to be trying to regulate in one marriage three different groups, i.e., student work or students, pensioners and the unemployed. This is a problem for us because we are convinced that this is why marriage is not the best or when it is good for the students, it is not good for the pensioners, and when it is good for the unemployed, it is not good for the students, for example. It is not easy, certainly, to lay down such legislation that would suit everyone. We can agree on this, but other countries need to follow suit, look at other practices, and then decide on such drastic changes. Indeed, experience from Austria and Germany shows that the unemployed, who become small workers, also remain unemployed and remain unemployed forever. That is why the trade unions have struck or warned and again asked the government to sit at the table and talk about it, and demonstrated on Monday that they would not put it on the agenda of our session. In the long run, we do not know what this will bring, but, as we say, experience from Austria and Germany suggests that the unemployed will then remain unemployed forever. Nor can the law continue to improve so much to prevent it. In addition, the law brings a new administration, or otherwise it will be enforced or confirmed by a guide. The principal is first signed by the employer and the beneficiary, then transmitted to the organisation for the intervention of work, that may be today's student services or employment agency, and then it is necessary to enter it into the central record maintained by the employment office. We believe that by doing so, we are additionally burdening employment institutions, which are, to say the least, not the most effective right now, but by leaving behind the fact that it is indeed a crisis and it is difficult to provide new jobs and arrange for hundreds of thousands of unemployed jobs and help them to do so. Nevertheless, we fear that the employment agency with the capacity it has will be overloaded and that it will not be able to do this work, which means that we will eventually cause ourselves a new problem, not solve it. The government also says that it is an important measure that will encourage, therefore, a measure that will make an important contribution to the labour market, to flexibility and the like, but it does not introduce it until 2012. It is so difficult for us to agree that there is a key measure to be taken now. While it seems good to us and it is right that this work is considered also during the retirement period, of course the student's ambitions are different and something else means to him that it counts as a retirement period, rather than someone who is unemployed. Maybe even in this segment, it would be on the same page as the one who is retired and that thing that can be positive doesn't mean anything to him. Hence, in our view, marriage is weak or will not produce the results we would like. We have always stressed that it would be more reasonable to increase control, regulate and take further steps in the area of student work and to resolve things differently for pensioners, and even more for the unemployed – to really strengthen active employment policy and some more individual approach. After all, some things are already happening at employment institutions, but we are not successful enough. It is better to do more in this segment to make things more effective than to turn on a system that works, but we do not know what will then happen to this big change. Therefore, as we say, we will not support the Small Work Act in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u54	Your Honor! In the parliamentary procedure, the text of a bill in a number of points or a definition has made a meaningful change or addition, and the main purpose and purpose of the bill remains; this is a uniform arrangement of various temporary forms of work. This will allow pensioners, the unemployed, the inactive, as well as students who will perform occasional and occasional work or work to have comparable rights from social security and thus adequate safety in the labour market. One of the solutions to the law, which we have devoted a lot of time to considering the law, is to redistribute the resources of the duties. Part of the revenue from the levies to be allocated to projects aimed at students and pensioners will be allocated according to the size of the small work per target group and will be distributed in a public tender to which all the organisations or associations of students and pensioners and other operators of the activities for that target group can be nominated, i.e. they are so-called separate calls. The project approach will ensure, in our view, a more transparent and cost-effective use of the benefits. Today, with the adoption of the amendment to Article 32, we will form an optimum composition of the 7th Member Commission, which will distribute the funds mentioned in the invitation to tender. In this way they will participate in the commission for one representative of the student councils of universities in the Republic of Slovenia, the representative of the Student Organization of Slovenia, the representative of the Diacean Organization of Slovenia, the representative of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth, the representative of the Youth Council of Slovenia, the representative of the Ministry responsible for education, and one representative of the Ministry responsible for culture. In the Group of Members, we are really convinced that the new, more transparent way of allocating funds must not detract from the activity of Radio Student, the Beletrina student publication and other market entities that have a particular cultural value and significance in Slovenia. We therefore support the solution that the Commission, which will prepare annual invitations to tender at the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth, will include a representative of the Ministry of Culture, in addition to the representatives of students and students. In addition to Article 4, today we will determine the number of hours allowed for small work during the calendar month by lowering them to 180 hours for employers who do not employ or employ only one worker. Before that, 360 hours were proposed. The law also provides for a regulation of the Central Records on small work in which data on small work for an individual will be carried out. It will also record all work experience, skills, competences acquired through small work, which will facilitate the demonstration of experience in job search. At the same time, the Ministry will be responsible for the monitoring and effective evaluation of the positive and negative effects of this law. In the Group of Members, we really believe that little work must be primarily a stage, a point in the labour market and a stepping stone for all those looking for work or employment. We also agree with the union warnings that we must not allow small work chains to occur and the number of full-time jobs to be reduced. Therefore, regular consideration of reports on the enforcement and effects of the law by all stakeholders will be welcome, including in the light of possible changes and qualitative upgrades of the law in the future. At the first reading, we have pointed out that some Members of the Delegation Group are looking at the proposed solutions with doubts. In particular, questions were raised as to whether the law would really allow greater social security, whether small work would still be competitive in relation to other forms of employment, whether the independence of student organisations would indeed remain intact due to the new allocation of benefits. In the Group of Members, we have indeed sought consensus on the text of the law and the solutions before us, but the beliefs remain with each other. Therefore, the Group of Members will not really vote in a single vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The Small Work Act is in third reading, so I do not want to repeat all our discussions and opinions from the previous two discussions at the meetings of the National Assembly and the discussions at the Main Committee. It is our general assessment that we support the law that attempts to regulate and remedy student labour irregularities, we support the introduction of student protection and the restriction on exploitation by student services. We look at the small work of the unemployed from the point of view of aid for the unemployed, so that at least occasionally they can work if they do not get regular work, and so long of course. However, we have considered a small part of the work of pensioners to be useful from the point of view of employers, who will occasionally be able to make the most of the experience of their former co-workers. With the amendment to Article 4, Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group in previous proceedings of the law wanted to establish a more meaningful and proportionate limitation of small work depending on the size of the company or organisation, since they should take into account that employers, businesses and organisations are very different organisations. In doing so, we have maintained the necessary consensus of the competent ministry, in prior consultation with the social partners, because we believe that these two guardians in law should allow for the possibility that, occasionally in the case of seasonal works or occasionally increased orders, larger companies may temporarily benefit from several hours of small work. This would not put their existence at risk by additional costs of new employment and give more room for manoeuvre for more equal competitiveness of student small work. Therefore, we cannot agree with the amendment of coalition parliamentary groups, which, in our view, needlessly exacerbate the conditions for small jobs in larger companies as well as in companies with fewer employees. Employment is not possible with a simple mathematical account, as the worker must be properly trained and paid, so the explanation of the amendment is not real and does not reflect the actual situation. We are confident that, with such provisions, they will have the opposite effect from the desired, rather than from the additional jobs mentioned in the explanatory statement, they will force a number of smaller entrepreneurs to shut down the company, while larger employers will be more difficult to plan and carry out seasonal work and will not be able to carry out possible occasional larger orders. Above all, we would like to reiterate that the Members of the Slovenian People's Party have made our preference for the Small Work Act conditional on the regulation of the scholarship policy, which Minister Svetlik has also personally promised us and which is in preparation, because with the new Small Work Act and without changes to the current scholarship policy, all too many students would fall into financial difficulties that could even prevent them from studying. We are convinced that the scholarship policy must enable all those who are able and want to study, fair and equitable conditions of access to study, regardless of the status or distance from major centres or colleges. Although our proposal for a supplement has been rejected, we will support the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, because we believe that the law brings positive solutions and, above all, that order is made in the field of student work while more appropriate arrangements are made for the scholarship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Mr President-respected Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Let me immediately say that the DeSUS Group supports the Small Work Bill in principle, as its solutions follow the current situation caused by student labour anomalies, the needs of the various populations that need short-term work to improve their income position and contact the labour market, as well as to adapt to the need for greater flexibility in the recruitment of labour in exceptional and unpredictable situations, particularly in the economic sector. During the entire discussion of the proposal, we in the DeSUS Group were very skeptical about the inclusion of unemployed persons among the beneficiaries of small work, because of the simple reason for believing that there are dangers or fears that little work will become a compensation for the classical forms of employment relations for the unemployed as those groups which should otherwise be fully active and for which it is important that they are properly paid and adequately insured, and in particular that their age is also safe. Our warnings regarding concerns about the inclusion of the unemployed in this form of work have been constantly present. Regardless of the fact that our proposals for the employer and other coalition partners towards the employer's commitment to employ an unemployed person after the constant need to use small work quotas has been demonstrated, they seem too restrictive and therefore unacceptable, but in the final form of the law it is only somehow taken a step forward, which we considered to be prudent and acceptable. For the time being, we are pleased that in some way a fuse is being introduced that will allow at least very careful monitoring and consideration of the effects of small work on employment, especially with a focus on the evaluation of the effects of small work on the unemployed population. This will give us an opportunity to act in time to avoid the serious consequences of over-exploiting these parking jobs and also distorting the image of the labour market and, last but not least, the adverse impact on the situation in state social stores. As has already been said, the DeSUS Group will vote in favour of the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u60	Nice greetings to all present! Dear President! The proposal for a small work law seeks to regulate different forms of work, which is casual and uncommon, which is characterised by a specific nature as well as dynamics and cannot be compared uniformly with the classical working relationship. The main objective is, in any event, to include such work in the social treasury mechanism in the first place, the purpose of ensuring comparable social security rights. Among other things, the aim of the law is to reduce the possibility of black employment. The fact is that they play such forms of work an important role in the labour market, but above all it is important to stress the necessary flexibility and competitiveness in the labour market. Of course, this is not the only role and function of small work, if we think about actors, these are mainly students, students, pensioners, unemployed persons and so on. From a small part, employers' contributions to pension and disability insurance and health insurance will also be paid. The contributions will amount to 14% of the gross wage for small jobs, from which 6% is allocated for the financing of scholarships, for the co-financing of construction and renovation of student housing facilities, i.e. student homes, and the employer will pay and account for contributions made to various social insurance schemes, such as injuries at work, occupational diseases, pension and disability insurance, health insurance, i.e. a total of 15.50%. Although it sounds nice and meaningful, unfortunately it's not all that perfect. In doing so, we are primarily referring to restrictions on the extent of the small work that an individual could do during the calendar year. And that's the rule that upsets the public and breaks the spears. In particular, it upsets this proposal of the student and student marriages and, indirectly, their families, mothers and fathers, grandparents. In this respect, therefore, the contentious provisions of the law concern not only students and students, as is quite the case, but a much wider part of the population. Unfortunately, there is a legitimate fear that work will flourish in black. We doubt that some 100 working inspectors for 150 000 students and students will be able to exercise control and due respect for the provisions of the law if we consider a huge number of businesses and regular employees. In particular, if we think about how extremely effective, of course under the slogans, these inspectors have been in control so far. When employers realize that the majority of employees can squeeze into a small amount of work, this will lead to a number of problems. The comments of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which are primarily directed against paragraphs 4 and 5 of Article 5 and 6 of the Act, which discusses restrictions on different employers and on hourly quotas, are also justified. According to them, this does not correspond to the structure of the Slovenian economy, even the hourly quotas are distributed very disproportionately and between employers and according to the number of employees in the employer and we fully agree with them. The specificity of service activities was also not taken into account in the allocation of these hourly quotas. And in the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the proposaler did not produce the content of this article perfectly. The content of the proposal justifiably upset all structural and age groups of the population, including employers, and it would therefore be necessary to introduce substantial corrections into the law, which were not even taken into account in the second reading. If the Government, inter alia, wants to increase employment, as it also points out, for an indefinite period of time, to increase social security, it should target measures in the direction of an appropriate way of stimulating companies that are employed indefinitely. In addition, it is intended to tax employment for a fixed period of time, which could, for example, be repaid to the employer in full if he could employ the same worker indefinitely after the end of the working relationship. The money collected from such additional taxes could be intended to create new jobs for indefinite periods and also for other purposes. I list only a few options for resolving the problem of the inadmissibility of certain substantive provisions of the law. We will not adopt such a law in the Slovenian National Party because of that proposal, because it causes all too much problems in its further implementation and we will certainly vote against the adoption of such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Minister Ivan Svetlik made a statement in the framework of the time for discussion by the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! First of all, an apology for the late introduction to this hearing, because I was in two places at the same time, in the government meeting. If you allow me, I would just like to highlight a few important things in considering how to support and why to support this law. So this is about regulating a specific form of work. Small work means occasional, casual work, including those that require only a few hours of engagement. And don't forget that there are different forms of work in this spectrum of many different forms of work that employers and individuals can use: work for short periods of time, contractual work and so on. This is just a complement to what most economies in developed countries know. But we did not know this in this form, only in the form that is the most similar to it so far, in the form of student work. The question of why marriage is good is raised. We argue – and I think there is no argument against – that it is good for all the groups it is intended for. It is good for students because it allows students to contact the world of work, which enables them to get to know the working environment and therefore to enter the working environment more quickly later. It will legalise, formalise lessons learned, practices that are important as reference to employment. Students will be allowed to be included in the social security system and will be granted specific social rights, as appropriate, in terms of what contributions will be made. At the same time, as so far and to a greater extent through little work, even through the work of pensioners, the unemployed, they will raise additional funds to finance the study, for scholarships and for homes. The unemployed are able to contact the world of work, which is a very important element, because contact with work is also a guarantee at the time of unemployment that allows the individual not to give in to discouragement and that he remains an active prospector and adapts quickly, once the work is found, to a new working environment. If there is no such contact, the outcome is always with an individual, and this is empirically proven, more risky or worse. For pensioners, we allow active ageing — even in this way — not only in this way, but also in this way. Being active means delaying the period when you become dependent on others and when you need more social assistance. And for all these groups, of course, little work also means the possibility of additional earnings, an additional source of income. What is extremely important in small work is that it is actually directed to groups that already have social security provided on a different basis. So no one, because he's going to get into a little bit of work, is going to get no worse, he's not going to be threatened, but he's only going to get the extra opportunities that open up to him. Everyone has basic social security — both unemployed and retired — guaranteed on a different basis. Little work allows only the upgrading of this social security, we can say that it strengthens it. And when we talk about who the marriage is good for, it is also good for employers, because it allows them to continue to use the flexible form of work that little work is, the most flexible of all those who have a choice. At the same time, of course, we are also introducing the necessary restrictions, just to protect the working relationship, and we are travelling to employers to make use of these other forms when these restrictions are too tight for them. And many of the employers in the debate were going to talk about that because they will no longer be able to use their student work to the same extent as before, in trouble. But here is usually a permanent use of this work, which is entirely appropriate for this work to be offered in the form of a working relationship, temporary or more permanent, for an indefinite period of time. And of course because we have to set these limits, because this is also an experience, as you say, of countries like Germany, Austria, we have set these limits. We also agree and support the coalition's amendment to introduce another class for the smallest group of employers, with or without employees. It is also appropriate to support an appropriate different composition of the expert commission. I would also like to stress that, compared to what student work means for students today, little work just adds to what student work is doing today. Today, however, the student work is carried out unlimitedly, which may also disturb the study process and the basic mission of student status, but is mainly carried out without any rights, without restrictions, without guarantees. The law guarantees minimum income from small work and guarantees that unpaid income will also be reimbursed to the person who has done the work and may then be left by the employer. The debate made it very clear that there are diametrically opposite interests between employers and trade unions. We believe that we have found the right balance between these two interests, between the fully open, free use of small work on the one hand, what employers would like, and, of course, that little work may not be allowed at all, what the unions are proposing. Although we have a problem here, we understand the position of trade unions primarily from this point of view, because it does not bother them that students and those who finish studies today are, so to speak, exposed to unlimited, if you want, exploitation through student work, without rights and without guarantees. At the same time, of course – and this is what we wanted to achieve, to ensure – to pursue public interest, and this is that, through a small work, the scope of work is reduced in black, the experience from other countries proves this; to apply the principle that everyone who works and deserves to contribute to the common needs – and through a small work institution – but, of course, it is also in our common public interest that to these three groups, we give additional opportunities to improve their position and give employers the opportunity to adapt to the turbulent environment when it comes to following their decisions to the business cycle. I think these interests in this law are well balanced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u63	Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. A respected minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! I'll start where Mr. Secretary has finished. I'm sure these interests in marriage are not well balanced. You yourself said that the law, as we know, concerns three layers of the population: the students, the unemployed and the pensioners. You also mentioned why this arrangement is good and better than before. For students, a small job should be good because it allows them to contact work and formal experience. This also allows for the current student work, and one study after the daily newspaper was published the number of students then entering regular work in those companies where the student work is carried out, so that it would be difficult to claim that there is no work at the moment, that the current form of legislation allows. You mentioned that this little job brings it to the students. In the same breath, you mentioned that, of course, all these three groups are for groups that already have social security provided on a different basis. So, I don't know what extra social security here brings a little work. If I wanted to be a little cynical, I'd say it would be better if this little job didn't bring such a big, new added social security, which isn't really a big one, but it would be a little bit more profitable for these students to buy their student years off. That would certainly be greater social security after the final phase, if we could retire some year earlier. It might be worth thinking about and changing things under existing legislation if the aim was to ensure greater social security for students. To make it easier to study from these concession funds, of course, this is already done, already from the student concessions for student work, student homes are being built, which is kind of cynicism, in fact, that the generation has to build their student homes, then I don't know what else to do – I mean, here I miss intergenerational solidarity, that students can't get into student homes even from another generation. [[...]] I'm not saying they're not just building from these resources, but the principle is questionable to me at first. Unemployed. It's good for them to keep in touch with work. They can also do this in the context of currently available forms of work, with contractual work, etc. If that were the reason, the current legislation could also be provided with minimum amendments. However, the thoughts of the unions and many others regarding the integration of the unemployed into this institution are great. Pensioners, too, are probably good for them to have contact with work, now perhaps again for someone cynical and offensive, even better contact with work would have had if they remained in a working relationship for longer, which is also the objective of the pension reform that we discussed yesterday, and you know where the debates were going and how the technique is moving and what generations that are still involved in the work process can hope from this reform also for themselves in view of the current age, the ageing population and also the political relationship as well as the age relationship in the National Assembly. It is difficult for me to agree that this student work is carried out unlimitedly; of course, one restriction was also in the income legislation, where – in fact, it is difficult to say – in the notes, it is not worth doing more than that. If this is the problem, the current legislation also allows the student work to be limited on time and otherwise. No payment guarantees. I also tried with the amendment to the insolvency law to add student work as one of the advantages of bankruptcy claims and so on, but of course there was no hearing about it. In short, even this thing, these guarantees would already be guaranteed in the current legislation if we really wanted to pursue those goals, which you mentioned as those brought up by the new law. In short, no new law should be adopted in this form. I agree that it is a noble goal of reducing work in black, but of course I am not quite sure that this will happen with the adoption of this law. I am sure that this law, for example, is good for the pensioners, because in their case I hope that this work will be blacker and this form of work is actually the most appropriate, perhaps even more than any contractual form of work. For the other two groups affected or justified, I am not sure that this is the case. If I think about it, especially as compared to yesterday's or yesterday's debate on the pension reform we had, it also seems to me that everyone who is working to contribute is actually unfair if we do not introduce a social cap at the same time after our pension reform. Why students who do little work should contribute, study, study, be in short the labour force that will be higher educated, which will give higher added value to the products that this country will create. As a result, of course, she will have a higher salary and will be above average in solidarity with everyone else. They will contribute in the beginning, they will contribute in the middle, and in the end they will receive very average pensions, because of course we do not have social caps. Here we force the student population to be above average and in my opinion inappropriately high solidarity with others. You yourself said that social security was already provided on other grounds. In order to be able to comment on the topics raised by colleagues when presenting the opinions of the parliamentary groups. What is being corrected with the current amendments is, of course, within the framework of a law that I think is bad, good. Some internal justice is being established and some other little things are being corrected, and I cannot say that the amendments are worse. These amendments in the third reading, unlike amendments in the second reading, improve this law. I have to say this, but of course not sufficiently. As far as the anomalies mentioned are concerned, it is hard to imagine that something terrible will be reduced now or that it is the will that is true. Because if it were, I'm saying that, let's say, with a single entry record, we could solve a lot of things here, but that doesn't happen. We still don't know, we don't even have a comparative admission to universities and colleges, we don't even have colleges. These records aren't combined, there's room for manipulation as much as you want. And it is also illustrative to me that the non-profit employment agency will be able to drive this entire large information system if, I say, the single registration records in this country cannot be regulated as they should be. Student work is not just an anomaly in the labour market. And even if it were, is it such a big anomaly that this economy couldn't do it? Is this age group and this interest group the one that is the biggest threat, I do not know, to the stability of public finances? Of course not. Another age group is this, and a lot of other stakeholders are like that. In short, I think the burden here — not only of this crisis, but of this society in general — is not shared equally and equally. That someone we believe to be more capable is doing much more than they should. I'm afraid they're going to disappoint us about this ability, too, because if we put too much on people at the beginning, it's hard to believe that they're going to make it to the end. Finally, I would say that it is likely that these grey foxes and the black economy will not be able to avoid this law, because there are still job brokers who are already doing their job, these agencies with this job leasing. For them, I imagine this marriage is still the best. He'll sweep with their competition, in short, leave the door open for them. The interest of the economy for a very flexible workforce will be even greater, because they will no longer be able to take advantage of it from a small part. Thus, they will exploit what they will still dare — these agency workers. And I do not believe that we have done much for our good feeling that the social state, which is justly concerned with foreign, temporary and similar workers, has done much to prevent us from doing anything in the right direction with this law. I still couldn't confirm it, as I did in the first and second readings, and I won't be able to do it now. After silently, I wish that, with regard to everything you claim on a professional basis, you are right, because if you do not, it seems to me that we will renounce not only the social correction, but one part of our legislation, which has helped for all generations of 20 years to strengthen internal generation solidarity, create confidence, help to make themselves economically independent, and in short, it can give escape to the world, but I believe that good refugees who helped the vitality of this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u65	Mrs Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor. [[She's not here.]] Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam. Mr. Marian Pojbich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u66	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary! So, first of all, I must say that we will not support this bill in any way in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are sure, not only is it poorly prepared, it is completely incomplete, it puts three important groups of people in the same pot, so I'm talking about pensioners, I'm talking about students and I'm talking about unemployed people. Since this confusion within one pot is so different, it is extremely difficult to make something of it. To think that way and to think that way in the Slovenian Democratic Party is a whole bunch of important reasons. First of all, unions have constantly warned us that this law is unacceptable to them and to employees. You know this law is only enforced in Austria and Germany. Since we have also hosted these representatives here in Slovenia, we have been very clear that this legislation in Germany and Austria has not been well adopted and they want to get it out of their legal order in every way. Since the entry into force of this Act, so many open questions and inaccurate data have emerged, so it is extremely difficult to assess whether this law is acceptable to any society at all. However, Slovenian society is also specific and it would be very difficult to relate to all this developed democracy, as they have in Germany and Austria. What they're refusing is what we're trying to do here. This seems to me to be completely confused with every logic of life. So, the Small Work Act leaves an extremely wide range of open questions. What I was saying last time, I read what the unions think, and I think it's huge; a lot of arguments about why this marriage isn't good for anyone. He's not good for anyone! We also received an open letter from a student organization. I think it would be right for each of the Members and Members of the National Assembly to read it, because there are extremely many arguments that say exactly the opposite of what Mr Minister is talking about. And I'm going to read some of what the students and students wrote. And it is only right that we hear all those who have not read this open letter. I quote, "the proof for the last statement is the statement made by Minister Svetlik on 29 September 2010 for Good Morning. Students will be able to carry out their work on an equal footing, but they will have significantly more rights. The restrictions on students and students in themselves reduce the scope and restrictions on businesses and organisations will limit little work to less than a quarter of the current scope, as the greatest beneficiaries of such forms of work are rigorously limiting." Then the continuation, which I think is most important, is: "There is a substantial number of rights under Mr Svetlik or the Small Work Law for Users". Now, look what this marriage doesn't bring. It does not bring the reimbursement of transport costs, does not bring paid meals, does not bring paid leave, does not bring a holiday refund, does not bring cash compensation during the period of sickness, does not bring a retirement period, does not bring a retirement allowance, does not bring financial compensation during the period of care of the child, does not bring financial compensation for parenthood at the time of birth, does not bring a decent payment, does not bring decent employment, does not bring pensions, does not bring social security. For one working hour, a small worker will be granted 40 minutes for pension security; thus, 40 minutes for retirement will be recognised with one working hour. A small worker will thus have to do 1.5 hours of small work to be recognized for an hour of retirement. A worker who wishes to achieve a minimum of 15 years of retirement work, which is the minimum to obtain the right to an old pension, should do a small job in full hours, 720 hours a year, for 65 years. A student or a student will have to work on average for five years and eight months for one year of recognized retirement. After recent changes, small workers will receive a total of EUR 0 per pension, and small workers will not be paid contributions to pension insurance. Article 23 of the Small Work Act - Rights arising from social security contributions, second paragraph, "the income for small work carried out irrespective of paid contributions is not considered to be a calculation of the pension base. The payment of the contribution for the case of age, disability and death also includes insurance for death and disability as a result of injury at work and occupational illness". So, look, at least I personally assess that each of the Members sitting here today, if he has heard at least what I have read now, cannot decide to support such a law. Therefore, once again: we strongly oppose the content of this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party and we will not support it. I am also sure – see, in Slovenia we already have a lot of outstanding problems by not getting workers in our country and not paying them half a year's wages, not getting regress, not paying them social security contributions and so on. So those people who are now at the employment office, who will come into a small job, will never be allowed to build a family because they will do one, two or three small jobs, will never be able to get a job for an indefinite time that allows you, say, at a bank or anywhere, to get a loan to buy an apartment or a house or whatever, to provide you with the basic conditions for life. It will never be possible for those who will be employed in a small part. And we bluff and talk to ourselves here in front of us and with some theory try to convince those who live in practice and with our brains we also co-create and create from a small society in such a way that we were busy, that we tried to go through all the stages of life – not to be a whole life professor at the FDV or at any university that on one side gave him everything in this world, as possible, and who in no way can understand those who receive 300, 400, 500 or 600 euros a month's wages. These are not guaranteed. Mr. Minister, look, you can say whatever you want: a little work will not provide anyone with what I've talked about before. Nobody! But if you think that this is how you're going to be doing what you're doing here with this little piece of work law, tricking the Slovenian public and hiding in the background of the less unemployed, then you've made a big mistake. I'm sure that won't work. And those who do a little work will leave the employment office. It is precisely said; if they do one, two or three small jobs, they have nothing more to look for at the employment agency and will no longer be led as unemployed persons. However, these three small works will not make it possible for them to survive normally. Look, Mr. Minister, I have the right to express my opinion, and you are Mr. Minister, to then replicate what I said wrong. And if you convince me that everything I'm talking about right now is wrong, then I may start to think that this marriage has really good intentions, but I will never support it, because I know exactly what the consequences will be, now that I am aware of it. You also put students into this law for the reason that you tried to solve this problem of student work. Everyone in this society, along with the students sitting here on the balcony, is aware that there have been such and different manipulations in the student work and so on. However, this is to such a small extent, if we are looking at the whole Slovenian economy, that it is not possible on the basis of this to seek solutions through the Small Work Act in order to prevent student work as it has been so far. That's not possible. I think that we should save our student work in our marriage or we could only fix it with smaller adjustments, we could fix it without a problem, and we could save those anomalies that happened in our student work. However, in order to be able to limit student work at all, it would be first and foremost for the law to come to Parliament and that it was adopted. If the government had done so, it would only be the first condition to enable those students who are unable to study now. It would be the first condition to be able to discuss solutions and problems such as student work anomalies. Only then! The student work law is not yet in Parliament, so it is also a question of when it will be. They say – you've been in power for two years, and no one can say that you haven't had enough time to prepare all this relevant topic, you don't have a problem when it comes to restricting or freezing pensions – you don't have a problem here, you're very active here. When it comes to freezing social transfers – also when you look on the other side that we have 100,000 and more unemployed – nothing is done, nothing is done! We've got nearly 100,000 unemployed all the time. Nothing! Last time I talked about the problem of straw companies, even yesterday. Absurd, this area, which is still important for those who are most vulnerable, and these are the workers – who in this society is more vulnerable, us Members or you Minister?Oh, my God! We are not vulnerable, but vulnerable are those who have 400, 500, 600 and so on personal benefits. And those are vulnerable. And those should also be focused and focused on this economy and lead this country in a direction to ensure that new jobs are opened so that pensions do not have to be frozen. You shouldn't have! If these 100,000 unemployed were as many as they were in the previous term, when there were only 59,000, that's a huge number. If all those people were paying contributions to all three cash registers, there would be no problems here today! But this government has focused only on how it will cut someone somewhere, and on the other hand, it has done absolutely nothing in the context of preparing an appropriate basis for the economy to come to life, so that the economists can get credit and so on. A large majority of small, medium-sized enterprises still face liquidity problems. What did the government do here?Oh, my God! She's bound to do something here because all the banks are owned by the majority state! And no one in this country will ever convince me that nothing can be done here! But until we focus on what I'm talking about here today that someone needs to cut something, so long, believe me, this country doesn't have a suitable future. Even when we are talking about the law on pension and disability insurance – work up to the age of 65, on the other hand, we even have an army of students, an army of those who have finished, who are therefore highly educated, who should long ago have the conditions to be able to work somewhere, so that they can organize themselves, so that they can plan their families and so on. And they're at the Employment Service. I'm talking about those who finished their studies. I'm sorry if I said "students." But all those who listen to me, don't worry, Mr. Secretary, that they understand what I'm talking about. It doesn't matter if you fix me on small things, the point is that the content I'm talking about is very important. And there is another way to talk about this content in the National Assembly. Because of all the problems I've listed, this marriage is absurd. This law is absurd, and those who do little work, I repeat: they will not get leave, they will not get transportation costs, they will not get regression, they will not get lunch. They won't get it! Tell me if they get it! They won't get it! Of course, Mr. Secretary, they won't get it! But those people who make 400, 500 or 600 euros, you know how important it was to them when they got these supplements so they could survive from month to month?Oh, my God! You know how important this is, because every euro, every five euros for them means more to us all here together. I know a lot of these people because I come from an environment where people don't live as richly as most in Ljubljana, where the standard is 30% higher than in other environments. And what has this government done in this area to ensure that the country develops in harmony? It's a complete centralization again! All except Ljubljana – the law on the capital and so on and so on, that I do not speak. Instead of spreading this money across the country to try to get those parts of our country that are lagging behind the developed work to a certain point. And so on and so forth. All these questions are raised in this law and in all these laws that have recently come to the National Assembly. It is simply not possible to look at only one content, only a narrow part of this whole story in the country. The story I'm talking about right now is still connected to everything I've just said. She's so tied up, it's important! It's a long-term thing! This law will enter into force in 2012, when practical preparations are under way for the next term, and the consequences of this law will fall to whom? The next government! Yes, Minister, believe me, you will never get these governments again, and I assure you that. I hope that's what I'm saying. If you accept such solutions as you now accept, believe me – God help, only the Slovenian nation can cross! Trust me. And, look, Mr. Secretary, this fig that students share outside, this fig is meant for you. Look, Mr. Minister, share your figs with the students, share your figs with the retirees, share your figs with everyone and everyone. And that shit is meant for you. I will gladly accept it from the students, and I will also hand it over to you after the conclusion of my debate, because it seems to me that it is right for you to see how nice it is if you share your figs, that you also receive some fig. Which is not so bad, because I gladly accepted it from my students. Dear friends, so [[...]] [[advertising in the hall]] I'm sorry, Mrs. Pecanova. I see people's lives differently in this country. For me, all of them are friends. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u67	Mr. Pojbich, no arguments, because I didn't give you my word for it. Tell me to the end of your story.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u68	Mr Vice President, then I would ask you to warn those who intercede with such observations.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u69	I agree with that. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u70	Well, I'll finish my discussion with that. Once again, I am very clear that we will not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because we are convinced that it is harmful in the long term for all the populations in this country, both for the pensioners and for those who are listed in the law, i.e. for the unemployed, and also for the students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Brultz, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u72	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, I ask you to remind Mr Pojbič not to allow himself to be offended by the Minister, but not only by the Minister, but by all the intellectuals in this country who are not worthy, I would say, white bread because they are not working with a shovel. There should be no such insults in the National Assembly. And here are the students who will also be the intellectual agents of the development of this area. I think that many primitive and negative remarks have been made and that you owe Mr Pojbič a break and draw attention to mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you so much for the heads-up. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr. Pojbich, what you read before and what you've been basing on is pure nonsense. Ask yourself what student work gives students today from what you wanted to give a little work. Nothing! But a little work gives something more than what a student's job gives today. When I say that individual groups have different status, students too: they have subsidised transport to work, they have food vouchers, etc. That's what you need to understand, when you compare these statuses with each other now, you obviously don't understand. Another time. When you're wondering, I've told you before, who benefits from the small work law? We can also ask who it hurts. I'm saying none of these groups hurt, to say the least. It is a pity for two – agencies that today provide little work for profit and invest these profits everywhere, only for the purpose of the student standard, and perhaps for students who will have more difficult access to these funds, because it will be more transparent than today. That's what marriage brings and where you can really see some damage. One more thing. Speaking of solidarity: many of you mentioned intergenerational solidarity. Three groups: the young, the middle generation, the old ones find themselves inside a small piece. Isn't that the best expression of intergenerational solidarity? And you want to push them into your own corner! Such a way of thinking in the direction of intergenerational solidarity certainly does not guide us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with the co-workers! I apologize for missing a good part of the debate due to some other obligations, so I will respond to the letter from the Student Organisation of Slovenia sent yesterday by the Student Organisation. I must say that I see Mrs Katja Shoba as an excellent politician who can reason on the facts. In fact, how many times have we already said some things in this Chamber that the difference between working relationship and more flexible forms of work, where there is also little work, is therefore the third paragraph, which states what does not bring little work, based on the rights conferred by the employment relationship. This is rude manipulation for me, unworthy students who, as intellectuals, should nevertheless be able to accept the fact that they compare each other in a comparable way. If we were to follow these elements, what does such a singing student's work, which has now become so important, bring? Does such a thing, which can be linked in this paragraph, come from the student work in itself? Or, for example, brings sickly, or brings paid lunches, or brings student work reimbursement of travel expenses, etc.? By simply stating something and comparing something without the basic parameters of comparability, however, it is impossible. I don't think it's possible to get close to the positions then because we're talking about social dialogue – and I understand the dialogue by explaining the two views and trying to figure out what these two views have in common and what they differ in. However, if it is so widespread that it is not possible to draw closer to each other, I see – I do not understand the Student Organisation to advertise with such views at the end and expect me to adopt the views of the Student Organisation. I cannot accept them because I stress once again: The student organisation does not come from what is a small job by definition and what is a working relationship which, by the way, could be for an indefinite period of time, full-time or shorter working hours and any other categories of work could be perceived, but I will not talk about it now. I do not see the possibility of reaching an agreement or agreement even if students see the unemployed and pensioners as their opponents, as those with whom they do not want to have anything to do with the treatment and access to small work, because one thing is common to them all: that pensioners have the pension, that the unemployed have the compensation for the period of unemployment and that they will have the students, that they have the scholarships, and that with the new law, the number of beneficiaries of the scholarships will increase significantly. The argument that the law on scholarships is not yet on our benches is that we need to look at when the small work law will enter into force, and to demonise in advance that the question is whether or not the scholarship will actually be no more. These are, however, things that must also be aligned with the budget documents – with all that is necessary for a normal candidate for rights from public funds; how this is happening, I think we have already established. What I would like to add in the end is that it is impossible to say that little work is an ideal solution. No one's saying that. But even if the German experience is that some people are calling for 7% of jobs from small jobs to become permanent jobs, that is, 7% in that the German law does not have some of the limitations that our marriage has, then I would expect them to try to see in these marriage solutions any advantage, not just weaknesses. I see improvements in the proposed law – and I have been talking, I will not now tell you how many students, but I am sorry not to admit that the student work was a special form of unequal treatment at work for a number of students and that the work done by students did not lead to employment, but it is a fact. Let's talk to groups of people, a group of 30-year-olds were talking, and two of the 30-year-olds only had two years to work. But they all survived, but with the student work. In a way, probably students and all those who had to do college work know more than I know who had long since retired from me. So I would expect you to try to understand why some things are set up as they are, and what someone really promised and did not promise, but some tried to see as promised. I have never heard Minister Svetlik promise what is written in the third paragraph, at least in the front lines, and therefore read out the deception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u77	Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u78	Good-bye! Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, Mr Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, this law today or when we vote, I will not be able to support it. I say unfortunately, because it contains many things, many positive solutions try to regulate – whether properly or not, we see more comments – student work also opens the way for pensioners. But the problem is, they're unemployed. This is a dilemma that is indeed a real dilemma, and today in Germany, when we refer to it, they ask whether it is more positive or not. They also think that this law would have been arranged differently. The question of the unemployed, but not only the question of the greater limitations that the bill offers us, but also the other dilemmas, whether this small work travel institute is not abused by them as well. 7% of inclusions may be large or small, but I am still talking about Germany, but as much as in the entire small work fund, there could be regular employment on the other hand. There would be, if we had, I always say, a different tax system. Little work should be taxed at the highest rate. Exceptionally, however, student work, because even if a student's work were taxed like that, it would be completely uncompetitive and students could no longer work. However, I am in favour of limiting student work after hours and after other matters, and the issue of service and commission inflows is also a matter. That's different. Student work could be allowed to a certain extent, which is useful, but of course we should regulate it differently. Otherwise, little work should be taxed much more than regular work for an indefinite period of time, which is said to be comparatively speaking, the hours of contributions and time-contribution taxes should be stimulating. An employer who is willing to hire an employee for an indefinite period of time — this is not easy today. It's a big business risk. No employer today knows for sure or is very rare those who know what will happen next year, what will be the situation, what other banking sectors and global sectors will do to us. In short, it's not just up to itself, it's up to the circumstances. Therefore, this employer should be rewarded with less taxed work, stimulating him to work. Now we're talking about, if we look at the hour of work, it's worth hiring an employee for a little bit of work, and after 60 hours, like the monthly fund, we're gonna fire him, and then we're back in the office to get a new employee. He must be worth it. And it is unfortunate that employers will not look at any moral imperatives, that it is nice to have as many workers as possible with contracts for indefinite periods or at least for a certain period of time. He'll look at business logic: he'll include the one he pays less, that's logical. However, it is not logical, for example, that I will be cheaper in Ljubljana with rent-a-car than with urban transport. There's something wrong with the system. Occasional, temporary work is cheaper than regular work. This car rental is either stolen or at least stolen - something is wrong. Let us encourage the integration of workers for a certain period or for an indefinite period of time, occasional and temporary work should be an exception; an exception that employers will also benefit from when more taxed because they will simply need a worker for 3 days, perhaps for one week and will also pay for these exceptional cases. For this worker who is released tomorrow is a burden to society. Someone's got to take care of him. And let this employer do something about it. He'll be on the back of a social work facility or a social work center. But here we have a misrepresentation. Occasional, temporary work is tax-stimulating, tax-stimulating. Apparently, we are following the interests of capital, the OECD's instructions. We know why it happened. The OECD has recommended that, even in numbers, the OECD sets out how much it should be, and obviously our government is very loyal to these centres; perhaps some important government representative is looking for a job for this organisation. We are talking today about the integration of workers in employment. We know this is a difficult problem. How do you save it to be good for the workers, and how do you save it to be good for the employers? This solution is an eldorado for employers. He'll have a student at his disposal for some work where youth, skill, clarity, speed is important. If necessary, he will hire a former bookkeeper, a pensioner who is not yet in shape needing double glasses to work patiently in his company, or pull the welder out of his office, but he will cancel after 60 hours. He may also accept it as a work relationship, let's hope, but I'm afraid there's going to be more and more of these passengers. Moreover, it will not be possible to control — I mentioned this the last time. Surveillance, of course, I agree, in no way – even contracts on work, business contracts and other contracts can be used. Here are the departures. However, when the inspector arrives at the company, he will ask who this worker is, he will see that he has the papers, he has the contract, the other has the small work contract, nowhere, and he will never be able to verify how many of these hours he actually does in this company. If it were the other way around, if this job was banned for the unemployed, this control is easier, and I'm sure of that. It's gonna be hard, too, and it's gonna get abused, but he's gonna know that this worker can't be here. But if he gets a travel pass, his employer will give him the correct answer when you got to work? [[...]] Yes, yesterday? We don't know. Maybe he's been working there for a month. This will be much more difficult to control. Therefore, I say, for the unemployed, this arrangement is not good, it is not useful, and in the interest of these, I will not vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u79	Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Allow me first to present the position of the Group of Members, because at the time it was intended, I was involved in the international obligations of the National Assembly and I failed at that time. So two days ago, here in the National Assembly, we discussed the proposal for a law on disability and pension insurance. As part of the problem, two areas have been highlighted, which also directly touch on the small work law that we are adopting today in the third reading. The pensionable number of people and part of this shortfall are young people who are late in entering the employment relationship or working in forms that do not pay contributions to the health and pension allowance. Student work is to a large extent the one that keeps the young population out of employment, not only because they want it that way, but because it is the most favourable form of work for employers and therefore they use it to the greatest extent possible, also on the basis of the fact that they can hire regular workers instead of students. The student’s work also does not pay contributions to the health and pension allowance. At the same time, we would like to stress that we agree with the warnings of students and students that student work is also a source of income to improve the social situation of both groups. Therefore, in our debate so far on the small work law, we have clearly advocated the position that before the law was enacted, scholarship policy in the law on scholarships would be regulated, as it would be unacceptable for us to exclude young people from the study because of the poor social situation of an individual or family. At the same time, they would point out that student work represents only 4% of all working hours, but the employment segments up to 30 years of age represent as much as 15% of all active young people. The 2010 study entitled Economic aspects of student work proves that the student population is not only unfair competition for its fellow graduates, but also unfair competition for young unskilled workers up to 30 years of age. The Small Work Act therefore partially solves both parts of the problem. The law regulates the payment of contributions to both cash registers, while the small work will continue to maintain its flexible character and benefits for the employer as its burden will be 29.5%, which is less than the burden of the regular working relationship and other forms of contracts. In doing so, the law imposes limits on the amount of small work performed for the employer as well as on the employer, thereby partially limiting the amount of small work and the power of employers to cover the needs of workers more in terms of regular working relationships. In doing so, it should be reiterated that the possibility of working for students will not be taken away, most of them are already doing so, but less than the new law places restrictions on them. However, the advantage of the new regime is that small work will be counted for students during the retirement period, which, given the proposed extension of working time, is an appropriate solution and also in accordance with the standard that each work is counted. At the LDS, we agree that little work can be done by different groups of people, students, unemployed and pensioners, and that they will have equal access to shorter jobs, so that they can improve their material position. The common treatment of all three groups is understood as the application of the principle of solidarity between different generations and different stakeholders. The new law also aims to reduce work to black and reduce the grey economy. In doing so, in the LDS Club, we would like to reiterate that in our case, small work is a significant difference compared to some other countries. Indeed, all three groups that will be able to do little work have already exhausted their social rights from other sources, and this is only a second, additional source of income. This and some other solutions in the law prevent so-called entanglement, especially of the unemployed, from doing little work that the unions fear. The LDS Club supports the proposed amendments to the coalition, including the amendment of Article 4, which reduces the number of hours allowed for small work during the calendar month to 180 hours. In these cases, it is often s.p. or other forms in which the owner pays minimum contributions to his income and most of the work is carried out by students. Article 42 specifies the obligation of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to give the annual report on the implementation and effects of the Small Work Act to the Economic and Social Council and the Council of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for student issues. Thus, all stakeholders will be informed of what is going on in this area and will be able to comment and propose improvements. Finally, during the consideration of the Small Work Act, there were many warnings, comments and different opinions on the Committee and also here in the Second reading State Assembly, and therefore we are also expecting the adoption of these two amendments in the third reading, because there has certainly been an improvement in the text of the law itself. However, we are also very careful about the provision that introduces to monitor the functioning of the law in practice and the possible revisions to the expert committee, which will closely monitor what the consequences of this law will be. And we want and hope, and we will demand that the anomalies that would actually show up in the implementation of the law themselves be eliminated; that all those fears that have been expressed and that could – we hope that this will not happen or to a lesser extent – if this were to be demonstrated, we will react flexibly and quickly with changes in the law. But if I go on with some more of my thoughts now. So one of the very important elements of the objectives of this law is intergenerational solidarity. And here it must be made clear that the unemployed, who will be involved in small work, and that pensioners who will be involved in small work, part of the fees and contributions paid from small work will be earmarked for support programmes for schoolchildren. Thus, the funds will be allocated to the construction of student and student homes, so the funds will be earmarked for the scholarship. So, in order to achieve those goals, that no one can be excluded from the education process if it comes from a poor social situation. This seems to us to be one of the fundamental messages of this law too, because many times we face issues that relate to all generations, and many times in Slovenian society we talk about solidarity, and when it needs to be introduced at a concrete level, we set certain limits for each social group. The second important question is that the enforcement of the law is delayed for the reason that we do not want to endanger the social status of students unless we adopt a precise scholarship policy that will ensure entry into the study processes for all those who wish to do so. This is an extremely important message that is highlighted in the adoption of the Small Work Act. Further, I think it is very important to note that this law should be seen in the context of other laws. It is not possible to exclude it from seeing the entire system structure. Not to mention the law on the exercise of rights from public funds. However, in the context of this law, because the aim of this law is to reduce the grey economy, it is also necessary to see a bill already presented by the Ministry to the public. This is to reduce work in black, thus preventing and reducing the scope of work on the black and grey economy, which also follows all objectives of improving the public financial image in both the health and the social treasury, and to enable all those who wish to enter the labour market with fixed-term contracts or with an unspecified desire. So in the framework of the parliamentary group, we have paid a lot of attention to this issue. In fact, we have met several times with all the interested groups that have taken part in their comments on this law. It is my opinion that with the amendments to improve this law we have come up with very correct solutions. Of course, I want the implementation of the law to be as good as possible and in this direction within the framework of the objectives that this law brings. We will support this law in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u81	Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, chairman. I have already said something about the dangers and consequences of the adoption of such a law in the position of the Group of Members. But I would like to draw attention to some other things that have been transmitted by fairly reasonable people. In view of the danger that the current situation will certainly not be rectified, this is a situation of 100,000 unemployed, but only worsened. At present, the employee’s employment is a normal way of dealing with the employer and the employer’s employment is no longer required for a fixed or indefinite period of time, but rather to use the employment mechanism under this law. It is said that from the entire pool of unemployed, pensioners and, last but not least, foreigners from the EU will be employed. Workers who are currently performing jobs that do not require an eight-hour presence 5 days a week would be likely to receive contractual cancellations in the short term. If they sign them, employers who promise to hire them will hire them from a small job when they need to, but if not, pay them their maternity leave and close all doors for further employment. Under pressure of survival, it is likely that a number of workers will decide to give up their jobs in agreement, desiring at least a small amount of income and survival. Another danger is, however, that Slovenia is a member of the European Union and the Small Work Act will also apply to workers from other European Union countries, such as Romania and Bulgaria, where the price of labour is lower and their occasional earnings in Slovenia will still come in handy. In addition, the Government will be able to programme pensions for pensioners who have worked hard for 40 years and will offer them additional small-time earnings while competing with middle-life workers again. Thus, foreigners and pensioners who will be forced to do so for survival will systematically squeeze the cost of the labour force. In particular, I would like to point out again, as I have already done today, that the Small Work Act will actually be an extension and a cover for black work, because workers will be employed for an hour through the Small Work Act and the remaining 8 or 9 hours on black work, and the employer will have the paperwork in case of an inspection visit, and he will say, "Yes, because it is now this hour that he has been employed." This is what happens to taxi drivers today, as we are informed, and to many others. Thus, employers, such as construction workers, who today may be serving part - time workers and partly those who pay them in black, will be given the opportunity to hire current employees for just an hour a day, caricature — an hour a day, two hours a day, under the Small Work Act, and pay the difference completely in black, without any fear of punishment. It is probably not difficult to list such and similar facts which will impose on the employer the possibility of hiring foreigners for a lower price, and pensioners at the edge of survival, which will bring Slovenian workers and workers into a position to compete with foreigners and pensioners and offer their knowledge at a significantly lower price. The end result will be a significant increase in unemployment, a reduction in the social rights of workers and an inadequate increase in the exploitation of employers' elites. Thus already, the alarming number of 100,000 unemployed is likely to be increased in the coming years, and I am afraid that this will be true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u83	Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, ministers and coworkers! It must be said that we have in the budget for the second year the funding for scholarships to begin in the second year. In the second year, I am speaking because it is only in 2012 that the Small Work Act comes into force. One of my colleagues from that side told me everything, but he didn't say it. And then I realized that there was still a second election round, and I said O.K., I accept that. Spitting on the minister and this law is clearly in the context of unfinished elections. But the fact is, we have to say that scholarships are taken care of in the budget. Do not say that only a small work law will be passed, but everything else has survived and all other rights will come later. That's not true, and that's what you have to say. If I say very briefly, I also support the amendment that is before us today, which we will vote on Tuesday. And this amendment also says that someone who doesn't have any employees will be able to have a student who works for him, I think 180 hours. This amendment modifies all other rights of employers and students at work. And just one more thing. Better than writing insulted letters than we have now received, and sharing frogs, I have nothing, or sharing frogs and rabbits, I do not care, I had to participate in drafting a small work law, but not insulted to put my head in the sand and wait for the law to be passed and then spit it out and look for all possible options to break it. I advise that other matters are involved, not waiting for something to be done and then this is not good. Nothing good will ever be done if it is not done together and in cooperation with those who will live by this law and have some of it. Therefore, it must be attributed to the management of the Student Organisation minus one black dot, because it did not cooperate and did not ensure that all students would receive any further correction in this small work law. In my opinion, however, it is good enough and mature enough to accept it and to put the initial order into this area, that students study, workers work, and that students have very much of it, as the Minister has said, that I will not repeat it because it is unnecessary. I don't think it's right that without students, the law is passed, but they have to attribute it to themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u85	Mr. Magg has the word. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. A nice welcome to the Minister with the co-workers. Colleagues and colleagues! The Small Work Act has no doubt been prepared with a good purpose to regulate this area, which has so far been reserved primarily as a student's work. The problem was the excessive profits of some student services, and the problem was also a relatively high percentage of the rights enjoyed by the student organisation. It offers the possibility of additional employment and earnings for pensioners, the unemployed and the students, of course, in certain lower hourly items. The law is intended to allow for an increase in the number of scholarships. I believe that we will also do this and achieve it, either from this title or otherwise, because the scholarship is too small and therefore the student work has evolved in the direction of not saying a way of life that has also taken a longer study, which is certainly too long. Contributions to the appropriate cash registers from the student’s work are also a positive matter. And these are the positive aspects of the law. The problem I have in supporting this law is somewhere else. It's the unions against them, probably because they're afraid it'll make it less time-consuming. Students see competition in the rights of the unemployed and pensioners competing, I can say, on the same amount of possible work outside the labour force. These are probably the reasons the unions and students reject this marriage. Whether they're right or wrong, it doesn't matter what I say today. The referendum is scheduled. However, in times of financial and economic crisis, it is very difficult and sad to waste, because this law is not adopted, four million euros, which I think is unacceptable. However, since the law will only apply in 2012, it is better not to accept it and try to reach agreement with students and trade unions, and then we adopt the law. If there is a referendum, there will be no realisation for another year, but another 4 million euros will be incurred. All can calculate how many scholarships only from this title could be awarded to the affected. That's not what I'm saying. These are the main reasons why I will not support the law, although I have already said many positive things and I believe that I could bring positive results. However, there will be a four-million minus and nothing will be established sooner than it would be if we fix it or if we sit back at the table with the affected and try to agree with them to reach a minimum consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u87	Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u88	I sometimes think that we are all very pleased with the situation in this country, because whenever changes are announced and made, these changes are faced with great social resistance. Clearly, we are very pleased with our present situation. One quarter of all unemployed are already young. Every year, on average in Slovenia, our universities create 17,000 333 graduates, of which 9,000 are unemployed each year. This means that 25,000 unemployed young people can be added to the brigade every year. Can we, respected and respected, with this circumstance, be satisfied with the actual state of things in Slovenia? No, we can't be, and that's why we need to change. Is there a correlation between high youth unemployment and student work? Yeah. I'm sure there is. Young people are key strategic raw materials. A key ingredient of this country's recipe, how to economically recover, how to restructure the economy, how to create more added value. Their creativity, their knowledge is what this country must activate if it is to move from the current crisis. I firmly believe that. The task of our community is to create the conditions for young people to come to their opportunities, to be able to realize their talents, so that the experiences they have gained, knowledge, ideas and innovation can be made available to the community. As unemployed people, they can't give it away. And that's why I think changes are necessary. That I won't spend too much time, I think that's what we have to do. I'm going to support the Small Work Act because I support the changes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u89	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. I don't support the laws because I'm for change, but I support the laws if they're good. I'd say the following. It is known that our labour market is very difficult. This is already an obstacle to the development of our economy. We know that. And certainly, certain modernisations are needed, as has been termed modern in recent times. On the other hand, it must be acknowledged that this labour market is also very anarchic for at least two reasons. One reason is that there is no control in the labour market, otherwise there is control in theory very well, but also here are hunting chicken thieves like every other case in Slovenia, but not in essence. The other thing is, a certain anarchy is also due to the exploitation of student travel. So much anarchy as it is in this area, and so much exploitation, I don't think I have enough time to list cases where those who are employed have to bring out student guides so that they can continue to be employed. But these work is on another side, and I wouldn't mention specific cases. These are the facts. This represents unfair competition for entrepreneurs who work fairly under the law, who have employees and pay them all the contributions, pension insurance and health insurance. And in the student work, there's nothing else for students or students except for the pay they get, whatever it is. They didn't have anything else paid for. In doing so, employers have cheap labour, and this is unfair competition for those of you who have mentioned them, who are working by law and who pay workers everything they need. Therefore, it is not unusual if we have students with a diploma, let's say that they graduated, who are over 30 years of age, but do not have a single day's work because they worked through student services, and they were served by student services, pardons, student service owners, they also earned employers who hired them. And these student service owners are enormously rich. I wouldn't tell you what they've been buying, companies, hotels, that sort of thing. But there is talk, and I will slowly begin to believe that this is true, that there are also student demonstrations that have been when our Parliament was destroyed, that some have received this paid. This was done by a student organization and students who were not to blame for understanding each other. These student service owners took advantage of this hardship and used this money, which they earned in an easy way, to make use of it. But it's the whole thing because it doesn't work because it doesn't control this stranger with the tips and stuff. That's the main fault. Well, theoretically, it may be a "spill," but it's not in practice. But when we're talking about this marriage, I'm going to say that even in theory, I'm sure the purpose of this marriage is good, because something has to be done and in theory goes in the right direction, but in practice, but I'm sure it will happen the same. There will be no control, neither such nor any other, then this modernisation, which has been mentioned, will go on some side roads. The limitations that are prescribed here don't bother me that much, because some things need to be changed. But if there is no control, then the limits written in the law are completely meaningless and do not achieve their purpose, and it can be even worse. I would agree with the one who said today in this room that theoretically now we can all be employed through small work. This is a theoretical extreme case that can occur if there is insufficient control. These are the facts. That's why I'm a little skeptical. And I will say so, Mr. Minister, because you represent this law, this is the law that the Government has adopted, but you represent it, if you can also control it, then I think it would be okay. But control for everyone. I declare this because we have some untouchable entrepreneurs, owners who must not be approached by any inspection. If those, I'll say a chicken thief who gets or comes to him, warn him if, but there's one that's a thousand times bigger than me, they say, don't talk about it because they're untouchable. The inspectors will say it themselves. If the inspection is not the same for everyone, then this law is a waste of opportunity and there will be more anarchy than there is now. I am very glad that some of my colleagues spoke today about the increase in scholarships. That's good. We have also supported this law. But let me remind you, four years ago in this room we discussed changing this student's work, otherwise the law was conceived. There we proposed a slight change that the money that comes in for student services, for the work of student services, would be reduced slightly and given money for scholarships. At that time, your esteemed colleagues, who are now defending this law, were so against you, so you cooked up that this place was probably too small than that cooking. And today you find that scholarships are the very essence. And I'll say, thank God you missed so quickly. But I just don't understand why you were so opposed at the time, and today you're giving as a negative example that student service owners have become enormously rich. At the time, we wanted to squander that money a little bit, but you were against it, and you were against it, and you were against it. That's not working out for me. But I'm glad you missed it. On the other hand, I would like to say that I am skeptical because of this control because we have a period or a situation where, say, the judiciary does not work as it should. If the judicial system works, then a lot of things can be put in order in real time. However, if the judiciary does not work, if after ten years things are dealt with and have the advantage of an imaginary affair that is not at all, where they often write indictments and indictments, that is, of course, another matter, and when judges accused of having to go into an investigation get immunity, but not all. Yesterday, we gave one judge such immunity that no investigation could be initiated, but three months ago, in a similar case, in another judge's case, we said that he had no immunity to go forward. This is the duplicity that makes me in doubt about this marriage. When we have cases or situations, when, say, in the cabinet of the President of the Government, Vegrad workers who have stayed on the road, who are without pay, without social security, these workers have been building a house until recently where the material is supposed to be supplied from another project, showing some imaginary accounts, some contracts that are not what they should be, and some suspicious accounts, so I'm skeptical. The President of the Government, however, still gives support and trust to these people. I don't know how this is going to go any further. But given that ours are privileged and yours are not privileged, or vice versa, I'm skeptical about this surveillance. I'm a little skeptical because we're talking about modernisation. Modernisation today means to some extent the freezing of pensions, modernisation also means the freezing of social transfers, and we are saying that we have 98 000 unemployed. That's not true. At least 130 thousand of them, because, according to the data I have, there were between 10 and 30 thousand, I don't know, people erased from the stock market, because they've exceeded all their marriage arms, they've simply been erased from the unemployment register. On the other hand, it is true that there are at least 10 to 20 thousand students who have enrolled in another university to maintain the status of the student and the rights that come from it because they do not have a job. But I'm sure there are more. They are also registered, for example, in the fifth year of the Bologna level, even though they ended up in the old system, and have the same rights as those who ended up at the Bologna level for the same reason. That is said to be misleading to one country. And what worries me about the whole little job thing is that healthy Slovenian companies are being destroyed, and this is by the fact that directors are criminalizing themselves, that they did not know what to do, and that nothing can prove to them just because they hide things like Murgle, Under the Wall 7. Because "yes, because they're like that..." There's nothing to prove and there's nothing to prove. I cannot support this law because of all the above. In doing so, I do not deny that it was probably a good purpose and that, in theory, it might also be a "sleep". But practice is a little different from theory. I'm afraid this law will not achieve its purpose. But I think there are some good elements, and I will, of course, monitor what is going to happen, whether things like that are going to happen in Austria and Germany, despite the fact that the judiciary is working there, which is another difference. I can't support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u91	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. I would just like to say that I will also support the Small Work Act in the third reading, especially because one of my proposals concerning Article 4 was at least partially taken into account, and I would be a little more rigorous in this, but nothing. I must say that if the Student Organisation took the time to negotiate and discuss with the Ministry of Labour when the final text of the Small Work Act was being prepared, instead of constantly meeting with the owners of the various student services, in order to discuss how the law would be mined, then the matter would be completely different. Now it's too late. And, students, you'll have to get used to having to talk to those people in this society [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u93	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Responsible and serious policy must do what is necessary, not think that everyone will like it every moment. The problem in this area has today been redefined, clearly defined by the position and opposition. Personally, I think that the efforts of the Minister and the Ministry are going in the right direction, that we are still taking time to react, correct and improve all the things that have been warned today. I'm glad we're putting anomalies away in the field of student services. It is clear to everyone that money has gone for purposes that do not have a lot of citizens and citizens of Slovenia with a better life, but at least students and students. We talked not long ago about pension reform that we have young people who on the one hand are hard to get to work, do not pay contributions, but do not have a retirement age, and something else, that Slovenian student work is sometimes exploited, is abusing the fact that those who are written there do not do much under the travel tax. It is a funny suggestion from some who would send a lot of inspectors, controllers and other things to the market, and on the other hand, we are duly warned that we are over-employing and opposed in the public administration. It is necessary to say 'bobob', to think that every work is considered to be worth contributions for each job, is the right thing to do. Contributions and the taxation envisaged are also lower than contractual work, lower than regular work, and this is certainly good. In this collage of solutions, in some ways, there were also strangely mixed three categories - students, pensioners, unemployed. Of course, these three groups can compete only in certain parts, which are to a lesser extent, suitable young students and students with the knowledge offered by Slovenian schools, while the other two categories are difficult to compete with. Students have great, wide knowledge, and it would be good to be tested as students in practice and then have a huge advantage in obtaining work and new jobs from those who are, say, unemployed, who are difficult or unemployable because they have no knowledge, no education. In general cases, I can tell you that in Slovenia we have many areas and systems where these people could gain free knowledge and education, but unfortunately they do not use it. We need to be a mature, serious and responsible society, in which everyone has to make the most of himself. As far as pensioners and pensioners are concerned, I think it is also appropriate that once they have passed this period, they have fantastic, rich knowledge, rich experience that they still have the opportunity to provide them legally and to give them to society. I think that we have more than enough time to put into effect in 2012 to do with other things everything that turns out not to be the best, to fix and to do. I will therefore vote in favour of the adoption of the law today and offer all the assistance and support to those who will continue to work on the implementation of this law to get a system that will work in practice. And that will certainly be good for the well-being of everyone in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u95	Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Franco Yuri. [[No, no, ……]] Joz Tanko. [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. I'm not going to back up the Small Business Act. Maybe some other information I haven't been able to tell before. You're launching a whole bunch of new administrations, and you're charging businesses, even though we're talking about unloading them. From Article 36, we continue to say what will have to be kept, what information all data will have to be kept by the institution in its central retail record, in the account of the beneficiaries all about the beneficiaries, that is 12th indent, then we have in the employer's register 10th indents again, in the travel log 12th indents, in the records of the organisations 6th indents, in the risk fund record a whole set of indents. This means that the Employment Office will certainly be burdened further. So far, if we look at data for 2009, 900 people have been employed at the Employment Service. With €45 million, they have implemented all procedures for 100,000 unemployed. While 47 student services for EUR 12 million with 250 employees carried out all procedures for student work for 150 000 students and students. In view of the fact that there has already been an opportunity for the students to pick up their passengers at the Employment Service, we should ask the Ministry why this is not happening. Probably because some things are up-to-date, some things aren't, and now we're moving this into employment institutions – that is, 150,000 students, students, and another half million unemployed and pensioners. I think that this will cause quite a problem for the Employment Service, but also for all those who would like to do a little work in this way. The Ministry foresees a new information support system that will, of course, cover all of this, so that the Tax Administration and all others who are involved and who will be able to control or control the way things are going, the Tax Administration and inspection services will be able to access this data. If the Ministry entrusts this task to Ultra or any of its companies, it can happen in a similar way to student vouchers when the system collapses and then we go back to doing things manually and in a simpler way. I can't imagine what this will mean for all those who will come to the Employment Institute from 1.1.2012, want a travel agent, January, for example, and the system will not work when we establish these things and how we will establish them. In addition, we burden companies with health checks by law. Organisations shall provide a health review [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, the middlemen. Yeah, well, the middleman's an entrepreneur, isn't he? Oh, okay, you're gonna explain to me that this isn't it. It is the organisation that is the one that is the intermediary of the work, so I understand the law, because it is not only the Employment Service, but today the student services, but then the job intervention organisation. I will not support the law, because I think it will bring more harm than benefits, in order to undermine the system that works, but it should be updated and monitored. I don't know how many inspectors need to be increased or sent to the action right now, because they can access the data right now. The problem is that the inspectors themselves said they did not want the services to provide information on who works through the student service, because they have nothing to do with it and have too much to do with it. It would probably be possible to control things better within the framework of the existing system of things, to better manage them. And with all the measures that have already been taken in the past, the profits of directors or student services have already been reduced. Traveling was also limited, or the number of passengers decreased. I think we should continue in this direction and we could achieve what you want with this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u97	I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 20. Ten. 2010 I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I am putting to the debate Article 41 and the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Rose.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Article 41 provides for the composition of the Commission [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u99	You have 24 seconds available [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u100	Don't bother me, please. which will discuss and assess the consequences of small work. [[...]] Students are excluded from it, and I assume that if proposed, they would also be the owners of student services. I am very upset that Mr Minister spoke in a similar uncritical manner to his colleague Petan and Sayovic about the enormous wealth of student service owners. I'm sure no one here can name three that would really make a fortune out of it. They only know one, it is the owner of the student service, whose beginnings date back to the time of separation of the Student Organisation of Slovenia and the current Liberal Democracy of Slovenia from the ZSMS and from this [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u101	I'm on it. I am putting to the debate Article 42 and the amendments of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I hereby conclude this debate on the amendments to be decided on Tuesday 26. Ten. 2010, in the context of the votes. With this, I also interrupt this agenda item. We're moving to 17. PERIOD OF THE DAY – THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE AMENDMENTS OF THE LEGISLATION LAW IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In short, on the main solutions of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Administrative Fees. This is the law governing the payment of fees for documents and acts in administrative and other public matters. The proposal for a novel is a reflection of changes to material legislation which requires an appropriate change in the system of payment of administrative fees and the need for a more precise regulation of the procedure itself. The amendments relate to both the text of the law and to such a tariff as is annexed to the law and is an integral part of it. We can define the changes in substance as follows. First of all, the level of administrative fees changes to a certain extent, i.e. the fees increase in the price of living needs from the last change, i.e. from September 2002 to 2010. These increases in consumer prices are gradually adjusted by the level of administrative fees, which means that they are increasing accordingly, in three steps, first when the law is in force, on 1 July 2011 and 1 January 2012. The amendments and additions to the text of the draft law relate mainly to the procedure for issuing a payment order, the change in the amount of fees in force and certain such exemptions. The rate of duty shall be re-defined or amended by certain taxes which have not been duly fixed so far, and accordingly shall be amended and supplemented by the notes to individual tariff numbers. Such tariff, which is an integral part of the law, shall be adapted to the amendments to certain substantive rules which are the basis for the assessment of administrative fees. In cases where the amount of the fee cannot be fixed when the application is made, such an obligation shall arise at the time when the authority may determine or at the latest at the time the act is issued or acts. In this case, the taxable person shall not know in advance the amount of the fee as applicable until it is made known to the authority. The amendment therefore provides that the obligor’s authority shall, when all the information is available to determine the fee, be informed of his or her obligation. According to the applicable ZUT, the debtor is not particularly informed of this height, but is informed of the height only when the document is issued or the main decision is taken, which is not appropriate in terms of the legal protection of the debtor or his knowledge of the obligation to pay the fee. A further amendment shall touch upon the procedure in case of default or underpayment of a fee. The procedure in force is three degrees. First of all, a notification of a fee obligation must be issued, following that if the fee is still not settled, a tax notice should be issued, in the event of further failure to pay the payment order representing the execution address. It is proposed that two of the total three stages be abolished, causing the payment of the fee to be unduly delayed and additional costs on the part of the taxpayer and on the part of the authority. The fact of termination of the notice and the notice of tax shall in no way affect the legal security of the taxable persons, since the obligation to pay the tax, i.e. the formation, is already laid down in the law itself and therefore there is no need for further information and warning. A new clearer regulation or procedure shall be proposed in the event that the fee is not paid, namely, the authority issuing the document or performing the act, in the event of default or insufficient payment of the fee, by informing the taxable person by sending him a payment order. The payment order shall contain all the components for the administration of the execution or components of the executing address. An objection to a payment order is possible, but, like in other similar cases, the reasons for the objection are limited. Furthermore, in connection with the change in the method of recovery, the calculation of late interest on unpaid fees is also determined at an amount of 0.0247 % per day. These are the main solutions presented by the proposal for a law and we propose to the National Assembly that the draft law be supported both in the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Čepić, President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee considered the draft law as a working body at its 20th session. Ten. 2010 He was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments to the article of the bill and to the tariff numbers in its annex, which is an integral part of it. The amendments to the bill have been tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups to a larger number of articles and tariff numbers, as well as by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group on Articles 12 and 14. In an additional presentation of the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative stressed that the vast majority of the comments of the service were duly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups. In the debate, the members of the Committee paid the utmost attention to the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group for the deletion of Articles 12 and 14 relating to the new tariff as an annex and to the constituent part of the law submitted. According to the opinion of the parliamentary group during the severe economic social crisis in which Slovenia is located, the increase in administrative fees is not acceptable, as it would already have an impact on the social situation of most citizens, because of the poor management of the government with public money, and despite the additional budgetary resources provided for in this Title, it would not have positive public finances. In the debate, the opponents of the amendments stressed, inter alia, that, in individual cases, it is not a matter of substantially increasing taxes, that the law, on the other hand, introduces new exemptions, such as for the unemployed and other job seekers in the procedures for the implementation of the State's labour market measures, that attention should be diverted from the politicisation of the issue of the level of administrative fees to the debate on the possibility of reducing individual procedures and reducing administrative costs in order to make services or procedures more cost-effective to customers. On the other hand, the amendment's supporters stressed that administrative services in the current situation cannot and must not be extorted, they need to be cheaper and therefore the increase in administrative fees is not permissible and the public administration has to act rationally in the area of costs, as is the case with the economy. On these issues, the representative of the Government reiterated the fact that, in the case of administrative fees for the payment of services provided by the administrative authority at the request of the customer, and in the opinion of the Government, this cost, which is higher due to the rise in the prices of individual services, is borne by the party, since it can otherwise be financed only from the budget or the money of all taxpayers. The discussion also drew attention to the issue of the actual cost calculation for each service or the question of the choice of a single service to be charged. It has been estimated that an old bureaucratic system is apparently maintained, since it is not logical that the management of similar services in individual cases is assessed differently. The view was also expressed that the amount of certain fees was also illogical, since, for example, taxes for existential purposes such as the issuance of documents are quite high compared to some other fees. The Committee then adopted its amendment to heading 40, which corrected the editorial error in writing the text of that number. He also identified himself to the amendments tabled and accepted the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups, but did not accept the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to delete Article 12 and did not vote on the substantive amendment of the same motions to Article 14, as it became irrelevant. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. On the basis of the amendments adopted, a complementary draft law was prepared, which is an integral part of the report you have received.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Here comes the presentation of the position of the members of the groups. Mr Bogdan Chapič, you may proceed, please, on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u106	The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the draft law on administrative fees. The content of the law governing administrative fees shall be affected by material rules laying down the content of administrative acts and documents on the basis of which the administrative fees law then determines the amount of the administrative fee. These rules are, for example, the Law on excise duties, the Law on travel documents, the Law on ID Cards, the Rules on the Enforcement of the Law on Personal ID Card, the Law on Road Traffic Safety, the Law on Construction of Objects, the Rules on Types and Content of Certificates, the Selection of Geodetic Data and the Method of Reporting, the Rules on Sub-accounts and the Method of Payment of Compulsory Fees and Other Public Finance Income, the Rules on the Costs of Photocopying Official Acts or Documents to the Administrative Authority and probably any other act or regulation. However, all administrative procedures have certain material and other costs that are likely to be borne. The last amendment, the amount of administrative fees, was made in September 2002 and in all that time there has certainly been an increase in costs. The proposer proposes to harmonise them in three steps by 2012. During this period, prices of living needs increased by 27.8 % and therefore the price increases of living needs are also adjusted by the level of administrative fees, which means that they will increase accordingly until 2012. The proposal for a novelty reflects changes to the substantive legislation which requires an appropriate change in the system of payment of administrative fees and the need for a more precise definition of the procedure for payment of administrative fees. The proposed amendments and additions are without prejudice to the fundamental principles already taken into account in the drafting of the basic law. The Government is of the opinion that administrative fees are the payment of the general costs for the document issued by the administrative authority at the request of the party. In the law, the proposed solution is for cases where the amount of fees cannot be fixed when the application is made, such obligations shall arise at a time when the tax authority may determine, for example, the establishment of a fee for the conclusion of a marriage outside the officially envisaged premises or at the latest upon the issuance of the act or the commission of acts. In this case, the taxable person does not know in advance the amount of the fee as applicable, until the authority has informed him, and has therefore, by amending it, provided that the obligor’s authority, when all the information is available to determine the fee, is also aware of its obligation. Under the applicable law on administrative fees, the debtor is not specifically informed of the amount of the fee, but is informed of the amount not later than the issue of the document or the decision on the main matter, which is not appropriate in terms of the legal protection of the debtor or his knowledge of the obligation to pay the fee, and therefore the proposed amendment is appropriate. In the case of failures in the payment order, the authority may replace the incorrect payment order by a new payment order until the enforceability is confirmed. The calculation of late interest on fees not paid by the taxable person within the prescribed time limit shall be renewed by 0.0247 % of the daily interest rate. Such tariff, which is an integral part of the law, shall be adapted to the amendments to certain substantive rules which are the basis for the assessment of administrative fees. As it is said, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposed amendment of the law, together with the tariff groups, even though it may not be the most appropriate moment because of the acute financial distress of citizens. We estimate, however, that it is precisely for this reason that the Government has proposed a gradual harmonisation of taxes and that this will probably make the transition to a new tariff part a little easier.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u108	Dear colleague, dear colleagues, everyone else is present! Almost a day goes by, and why would today’s exception be when the government makes us happy with a new tax or by raising existing taxes. A few days ago, there was a citizen in my office who showed me the electricity bill and then I looked at my home and I saw that our government was innovative even to such an extent that it was taxing. Electricity charges are taxed at 20% of VAT. The Law on Administrative Fees is a law that primarily increases these administrative fees in the final result of a third. For EUR 9 million per year, citizens and citizens will have to cut deeper into their pockets after this change, and this is one of the reasons why we cannot support it in this situation in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. The second reason is that the law is opaque, confusing, confused, illogical, bureaucratic. Let me read you just one case, and there's something about this marriage. For the complete closure of the public road due to the execution of works on it, it is necessary to pay new fees when this increase is fully in force and 1.81 euros of administrative fees, for the total closure of the public road due to the event on it, we know that they are mainly carried out by companies, non-profit organisations and 18.12 euros – that is 10 times more. These are illogicalities, which, in true love, are already in the existing law and should be eliminated in the past, but the novelties have been addressed by the current Pahor government, so it would be right if the novelty had already gone, to eliminate what is disturbing and bad, and not to raise administrative fees where it is not necessary and where it is the provision of services that citizens and public officials expect to pay taxes for, they should not hesitate to eliminate the anomalies where they need to be eliminated, and that through a transparent, simple system of such tariffs on the one hand, even if a greater inflow is required, but not by emptying the pockets of citizens and citizens, on the other hand, to enable the efficient work of the administrative sector. Of course, the philosophy of the government says that this task is not a piece of work, the government says in explanation that it is a matter of paying services when we talk about administrative fees that the administrative authority makes at the request of the customer. Simply put, since the administrative authority cannot make a identity card or passport, it is necessary to pay for it. Probably, the state requires some documents from us, so we pay taxes to that country and expect an effective low-cost service, not additional unnecessary burdens during the period when it is necessary to act rationally in the area of the provision of administrative services and not to impose additional burdens on citizens and businesses with additional taxes, contributions and any other burdens that further undermine the functioning of the private and also the wider sector. We think that this is a wrong approach and we think that it is a lost opportunity for this system to be made simple and transparent. See, even at these lowest tariffs, not an attempt to simplify, but simply after the mathematical calculation of the fee, and so we have a fee of 1.81 euros, we have a fee of 36.24 euros, we have a fee of 90.61 euros. This approach speaks of a bureaucratic mindset in this public administration, which also leads to illogicality and that as a drunkard, we somehow adhere to the established methods of the past. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we regret that this attempt has not been carried out in order to simplify the system. We regret that, during this period, the Government has decided to increase administrative fees, which is why we will oppose this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for amendments to the law that we introduced into our legal system in 1999, and we have last amended and amended it in 2007. In this case, the proposer frankly acknowledges that we are not subject to any European Union regulation on this occasion, as is the reason for almost all legislative changes. This time we are obviously forced by a hole in the state budget. As is the practice in companies that each of the employees in their field of work is trying to find reserves and to save a few costs to the company, it is obvious that state officials of ministries from their superior ministers were given the task of determining where and how they could additionally burden Slovenian citizens and citizens and the Slovenian economy. That could be a comment on all this. We have yet to see another amendment to the laws that imposes such additional burdens in the same breath, when the President of the Government, from the 2011 and 2012 budget presentations, promises that the country will not be additionally burdened by taxes on the already barely scribbled economy and an ever-increasing number of people on the verge of survival. True, each service costs something, but instead of trying to keep these costs ever lower, they are becoming ever higher. It is an inappropriate and unacceptable signal to the public administration, especially those responsible for its management, for its economic and, above all, its efficient operation. We should do everything we can to make this public administration more cost-effective, not to give support to the principle by law if the price of the service does not cover its costs, but we will raise it slightly. That's not real thinking. That's typical bureaucratic thinking. I wonder when we will finally start thinking the way we think in the economy. If we thought like that in the economy, he probably wouldn't be here anymore. We're not going anywhere like this. In fact, we came where we came from, for example, according to yesterday's Finance Officer, at the end of September at the level of the deficit that the Government had planned with the last budget rebalancing for the end of this year. With such irresponsible behaviour, and above all thinking, we cannot agree in the Slovenian People's Party – and we will never, so we will not support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Honourable representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposed law. The news prepared by the applicant concerns both substantive changes to the law itself and a more comprehensive revision of the proposal setting out such tariffs. Members of the DeSUS support the changes concerning the timing of such a commitment or the introduction of such a commitment. We also support the modified way the authorities behave or act in the event of default or underpayment of a fee. The current system shall, in the extreme case, include a notice, a tax notice, the issuing of a payment order, an execution address and final tax enforcement. The proposed system, which provides for the abolition of two unnecessary stages, which renders the payment of the fee unnecessary and creates additional costs not only on the part of the taxpayer but also on the part of the authority, is acceptable to DeSUS Members, since it does not prejudice the legal security of the debtors. We support the proposed exemptions for public funds and public agencies, as well as other persons governed by public law, as well as new exemptions relating to individual administrative actions and documents. With regard to the proposed levels of administrative fees, however, they are increasing, let me make it clear that critics, mainly on the opposition side, are talking about an enormous increase in the amount of administrative fees, which is an additional burden for Slovenian citizens and citizens, even higher tax burdens do not stand up to the strong arguments. Even in our Group of Members, we have been extremely attentive to this part of the change, and our conclusion is as follows. It is true that it is a matter of determining higher administrative fees, but it is also true that this increase will be carried out in three steps finally implemented in 2012. This time dynamic certainly means easing the proposed increase. However, account should be taken of the fact that administrative fees were fixed in 2002 and have not changed since then. The latter means, in the event that fees represent actual costs of managing administrative procedures, which are to a greater extent initiated on the initiative of individuals themselves, an unrealistic reflection of the actual costs incurred by individual bodies. When considering the final amounts of the proposed fees, i.e. the amounts that will apply from 2012 onwards, we conclude in the DeSUS Group that these amounts do not in any way constitute a reported drastic burden on individuals. As we agree with the intention of the proposaler in our Group on the necessary amendments to the Law on Administrative Fees, Members of the DeSUS will unanimously support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Greetings to colleagues, colleagues and secretary of state! The already mentioned proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on administrative fees certainly brings some news. The most important thing between them, which we will all feel, is raising administrative fees. This promotion took place the last time since 2002, and has not changed since. During this period, according to the Ministry of Finance, the cost of living increased by almost 28%. If the Government also wants to provide revenue on the budget, not just expenditure, then this increase should also be followed by fees. In the initial phase, the government provided for a relatively high increase in taxes, close to 30%, and the law also provided for a phased or gradual increase in taxes first by the application of the law, one transitional period in mid-2011 and the other at the beginning of 2012. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, it is clear to us that administrative fees must also follow the dynamics of the increase in costs, which in practice is not necessarily related to the increase in living costs, as they state in one of the explanations at the Ministry. As has already been properly raised on the Committee on Finance, the question arises whether the fees are fixed on the basis of real cost generators. This is simply said whether we know what costs arise from each service and how the setting of the amount of the fee is linked to the very costs of the provision of these services. Therefore, in this place, also within the framework of the government's programme to remove administrative burdens, as well as rationalisation of administrative and administrative procedures, we propose that in further activities we try to think even more complexly, so that we can then work more easily and take action in practice. That is why we also call on the Government and the competent authorities to examine this segment of the public administration, that is, to learn that there are also many things in the public sector to measure, evaluate and then to take appropriate measures. Given that the fees have not been increased for a long time, and given the state of public finances, which cannot bear the burden of costs arising from services, we will support the proposed solutions at this time. Finally, it should also be mentioned that the absolute amount of the increase in administrative fees will not be subject to any significant increase. In the context of the rationalisation of administrative procedures itself, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia welcomes another solution, which is brought by the Law of Amendments and the Supplement to the Law on Administrative Fees, in order to introduce a new procedure in the event of failure to pay administrative fees. Thus, the notification of the obligation to pay and the notice shall be withdrawn, and shall be simplified in total, in the payment order to be received by the party. So at least one positive thing, a little less red tape. As has already been said, on the basis of simple public financial facts and arguments, we have decided at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia to uphold the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Tuesday 26 October 2010 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPORT OF THE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS MARKET LEGISLATION, ORIGINAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, to further explain the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament! Briefly on the news brought by this time's novelty of the law on the market in financial instruments. It is transposed into the Slovenian legal order by two directives, first by a directive amending the directive on the finality of settlement in securities payments and settlement systems, and second by a directive on financial insurance arrangements, the latter in the work relating to the content that facilitates the use of credit claims as collateral and its purpose is to ensure the stability of settlement systems and to improve or increase legal certainty. The draft law also eliminates certain editorial and other inconsistencies, regulates areas which have proved to be less effective in practice, regulates the appointment of the Director and members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency and the adoption of the annual accounts and the Agency's financial plan. The main objectives of the bill are to harmonise Slovenia's legal order with European law, to eliminate the editorial and other inconsistencies of individual laws and to regulate the content of individual provisions in order to make them easier to use in practice, thereby increasing legal certainty. The most important principles followed by the proposal for a law are: the principle of prudent and effective supervision, the principle of the public and the principle of proportionality. This leads to the main solutions that we can push into the next. The law defines the related settlement systems, the rules of the settlement system and the participants in the settlement system. Determines the irrevocability of settlement orders and the validity of insolvency orders. Furthermore, the proposal regulates the obligation to replace the audit firm, the way in which the Director and members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency are appointed, the way in which the annual accounts and the Agency’s financial plan are adopted, simplifies the procurement procedure for the parties, allows greater transparency in relation to the control measures given and, in general, we can say that it improves legal certainty. In the light of the above, we propose that the National Assembly should support the proposal for a law in the text as approved by the Home Committee in the second and third readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to a member of the Committee to Mr Rad Likar for presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State and to all present! At its 20th meeting, on 7 October 2010, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the text in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and in the legislative and technical terms and made a comment on the provision of Article 3 of the proposal, which is reflected in the amendment tabled by the Coalition Groups of 1. Ten. 2010 In the framework of the extensive additional working material, the Committee was also informed of a number of views of the amendments, both by the position of the Central Clearing House, the Association of Securities Exchange Members of Ljubljana, the initiative of the Agency for the Market in Securities, the proposals of the Association of Investment Fund Management Companies and the positions taken by the Ministry of Finance on each of those proposals and the written support of the Government to the proposed amendment of the coalition groups to Article 3. Representatives from the Ministry of Finance, the representative and representatives of the Securities Market Agency, the representative of the Securities Exchange Association and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly attended the meetings of the Committee. It follows from the supplementary explanation in the context of the initiation of the examination of individual articles of the proposal that the text is essentially linked to the transposition of Directives, in particular Directive 2009/44 EC, into our legal order, by ensuring that the substantive upgrade of individual provisions at the same time facilitates the implementation of the text in practice and thus enhances legal certainty. At the same time, the novel eliminates editorial and other inconsistencies of the basic text. In an additional presentation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative stressed that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups took into account the comments made and, with regard to the Agency's amendments, pointed out the necessary adjustments to the basic text at the time of the possible adoption of such supplements. In the debate on individual proposed solutions and amendments tabled, the Committee's attention was focused on the amendments proposed by the Securities Market Agency. According to the opinions expressed, the amendments in the work relating to the regulation of the status: the personnel procedures, appointments, those agencies exceed the basic purpose of the novel in question while requiring a uniform system approach with comparable institutions of this kind. The Agency's Committee of Initiatives, or the initiatives of other legal entities not supported by the Government or submitted by qualified applicants in the amendments, has not taken any action. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, he defined himself as a member of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democrats, Zares, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia and the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia at Article 3. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which forms an integral part of this report, is prepared on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u119	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u120	Once again a nice greeting to all present. As we have already heard, the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments for a novelty following European regulation is being amended so that this novelty could be a complete novelty of a technical nature if, of course, the Pahor government did not add to those provisions relating to the appointment and discharge of members of the Council and the Director of the Securities Market Agency. In the last two years, we have somehow witnessed that in a number of laws where there are some technical corrections, novels that align our legal order with the European rule of law also incorporate individual elements that go beyond this part to ensure adequate human resources management of institutions that are expected to be independent even after the mandate of this government has long passed. Not only in this case, but also in the case of other supervisory institutions, but in particular in cases where a number of new agencies are being set up, funds, in short, para-national institutions to which both financial and real state assets are being transferred, as well as the decision-making power, are being put on the table in these novelties, that managers are being set up with a term of six years. And so, of course, in this case. We would understand that the novel is intended to ensure that the leadership of the Agency is as independent as possible, but this task could be achieved if the novelties were to talk about the entire appointment process being carried out by the National Assembly. We have a mandate-holder committee in the National Assembly that can conduct the process from the beginning to the end. But it's not like that. Even in this case, which we have today in this paper on the table, the proposaler will be the Government and the National Assembly through ruling Members, through the ruling majority, the one who will only formally cover a decision that will be taken earlier at the government level. In short, nothing will happen with this novelty, politics remains the same as before when the government, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, appointed the director of this agency, by extending the mandate by one year, from five to six years. This practice speaks of the fact that Pahor's government does not only want to establish formal mechanisms that would unlock the pliers of parastata, which we have witnessed in the past period in all its dimensions, but also in the novels of laws, and also in the one we have today, it incorporates an instrument, a formal legal instrument that will strengthen the operation of the para-state even after Pahor's rule is no longer in the Republic of Slovenia. In this latter case, at least the next term of office will be inserted into the decision of those who will be given a mandate during this period and will have the full real and total financial assets of that country, and thus will direct the functioning of the executive authority in the coming mandate, even if that authority is different then. A very dangerous practice that distances us from some normal European democratic standards. At the very least, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would expect the Government to renounce these temptations and start establishing mechanisms that will ensure, on the one hand, control over these developments and on the other hand, the efficiency of asset management and management. A body cannot be independent simply because the leadership of that body is appointed by the National Assembly. We know that there is the same ruling majority in the National Assembly as at government level, and nothing has been done when this power was transferred from the Government to the National Assembly. In fact, we will be, or you will be, who will confirm these decisions, which not least happened yesterday in the event of an unnecessary new agency, only the perpetrators of these known decisions, which have already occurred and are decided at other levels, which distances all of us from democratic standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that. We have before us a proposal for a law that is supposed to bring the European Parliament's directive to the Slovenian legal order. In the framework of the legislative procedure, we have received quite a few comments on this law, including those of the professional public concerned, which show that it is clearly not that simple. For example, the Securities Market Agency, which once again raises the issue of the so-called independence of state regulators. On this occasion, let me recall the decision taken on 8 September by the Committee on the Finances of the National Assembly: the Committee proposes to the Government, within 30 days, that it prepare a review of the performance and designation of supervisory and management functions in all supervisory institutions and explore the possibility of preparing a possible proposal to unify solutions in this area. On this occasion, Minister Križanič said, quote, "I suggest that we think carefully, probably also in some professional debates, and then we resolve unitedly for the ATVP, AZN, perhaps also for other agencies that are regulators and must have the nature of an independent entity, perhaps also Banka Slovenije". End of quote. The deadline for preparing the review has passed, and I hope the review is ready. I've never seen him before. I'm sure of something. Independence shall not be ensured by the appointment of the authorities of such agencies by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia may and cannot be responsible for the operation of these agencies. Government and independence do not go together in these cases. All the government and the National Assembly have to do is ensure the conditions for independent action. The responsibility for the operation of such agencies must be taken over by the management or management of such agencies. And if we really want to ensure some independence, at least on paper, if not otherwise, it is certainly a better procedure for the authorities to be fully named through the national assembly procedure. By the way, there is also an interesting conflict between the information officer and the management of the Securities Market Agency in which the Ministry of Finance indirectly takes the lead of the Agency, but nevertheless proposes a solution which the Agency considers to be contrary to their obligation to protect confidential information or information. Otherwise, we will not oppose the bill. However, we expect the Government and the Ministry of Finance to prepare this review and then, on the basis of this, also a single arrangement for all regulators in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by Mr Mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u124	Thanks again for saying that. Nice greetings to everyone, including those on the balcony! The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Financial Instruments refers in practice to the transposition of European Union directives into the Slovenian legal order. Under point 2, it would also be important to point out that a new method of appointing the Director and members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency is being established. The Securities Market Agency is placed in a system of access to information of a public nature, which we think is necessary and important in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. The substantive amendments to the law themselves define related settlement systems, their rules and participants in settlement systems. The law also defines the validity of orders in the event of insolvency, regulates the obligation to replace the audit firm and simplifies the award procedure for the parties. However, the biggest and most substantive change from the point of view of the functioning of the Securities Market Agency in the law is clearly defined in the new mode of appointing the Director and members of the Board of this Agency. Following this new official, he appointed the National Assembly to strengthen the role of Parliament in the appointment procedures. We have arranged a similar appointment system with the Insurance Supervisory Agency, and we agree in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club that the role of the national parliament should be strengthened in the supervisory and regulatory institutions of the country, as is evident from this bill, where the National Assembly will appoint and also resolve the directors and members of the Agency's council on a proposal from the Government. Since we agree with the proposed solutions in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will also support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u126	Respected and respected! Even though the main objective of the proposed law is in particular to harmonise the Slovenian acquis with the European Directive, which lays down more precisely the law so far, that this law will be more applicable and thus increase the legal security of market participants, to resolve certain editorial corrections, to regulate settlement schemes, participants and relations between these participants, it is expected today to follow some other discussions on the ambitions of this government in order to half of those parts of our social system which must play an independent regulatory role. We have experience in this country, which undoubtedly leads us to ensure a high degree of independence and full functioning of regulators, including the Securities Market Agency. This experience, however, stems from the time of another government. We are therefore determined by the Social Democrats to strengthen the democratic standard of appointment of these authorities, which is one of the key elements in ensuring the independence of such regulators as the Securities Market Agency, the Insurance Supervisory Agency and the Bank of Slovenia. During another period, the activities of these regulators were dead, and they were underactive. And that is also why we today have some problems in our society that might not exist in the full and truly independent functioning of these institutions. The authorities, acting as Directors and members of the Board of the Securities Market Agency, are hereby appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Government, as proposed by this Act. Apparently, some feel that it would be better for an independent regulator to keep this right on the government's side so that, once the authorities are reinstated, they can immediately carry out the human rights tsunami, as we once did. The proposal we are pursuing is trying to retain a greater role in the National Assembly, which, if nothing else, ensures greater transparency of procedures. By the way, Dr. Damjan Žugelj is headed by the Securities Market Agency today. He was appointed to this place in April 2008, during the time of another government. The current government, our government, is still apparently putting its trust in the man appointed by the previous government. And there's nothing wrong with that in itself. It is therefore necessary to reject all that has previously been heard about the ambitions of these independent regulatory institutions of the current government. On the contrary, it's true. We are also strengthening democratic standards by this law and the already adopted insurance law to ensure the independence of regulatory institutions. For reasons that represent a better and clearer functioning of the Securities Market Agency, because the better defined relations between participants and participants themselves and other attributes of procedures, because it corrects certain illogicalities in the law so far, because we are strengthening democratic standards in ensuring the independence of the work of regulators in our country, we will support the Social Democrats' proposal for this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Tuesday 26 October in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. At the end of the day, it's on the proposal for a law amending the law on income under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members, with Mr Jozet Tank, the first to be signed. With regard to this bill, the same group also proposed that a general discussion be held. I give the floor to Mr Jožet Tank, representative of the law's motions for further explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! They pay a lot of attention to the small economy. Everyone is aware that a large economy when the economy, when the system is functioning, is a great deal of happiness for the business and other environment. However, when the situation gets worse, the problems or even the collapses of large systems bring great disasters to many families. This situation can be monitored in some of our provinces, for example in Koroška and also in Pomurje. The problems of Mure, Prevention, Vegrad, Mercury and other major companies bring unrest to our small national economy. In stressful situations such as we are witnessing, small societies and espouses are more flexible, more flexible and the country can also significantly facilitate the preparation of incentive measures to address the consequences of the crisis than for large and rigid systems. In this mandate, we have already proposed several laws in the Slovenian Democratic Party to simplify the conditions for the operation of the small economy. These were, for example, proposals for companies to settle their obligations with one pool and save 20 million euros that would no longer have to be paid for bank commissions. However, neither the Government nor the coalition supported such simple solutions. Apparently, there's red tape at the Ministry of Finance, and there's too much power and it's blocking simplification. We have also proposed that those self-employed in the domestic and art trade, who, due to the crisis, are no longer provided with normal working conditions, be compensated by the State for contributions to compulsory pension and disability insurance and compulsory health insurance from the lowest pension base. This aid or support would be about half as low as unemployment compensation, and the government and the coalition did not support it. If the country, in the long term, would thus keep the payers in check – it would not have to deal with job search and education and, sooner or later, after the period and expiration of that period, it would also become a payer of full contributions. Thus, the state translates the records of about 100,000 unemployed, just so that the magical borders do not exceed. The law that we are proposing today also provides a solution by which, on the example of some countries with a highly developed entrepreneurial environment and entrepreneurial culture and adjusted tax legislation, social security contributions would be included among the incomes from activities. Such countries include, say, France, this is also possible in some Scandinavian countries. We believe that such a concept makes sense because independent entrepreneurs are in a completely different position than those in a working relationship – espé needs to acquire the market itself, for the obligations it guarantees with its assets, it has to deal with the recovery itself, it has to deal with the payments of the contributions itself, much more at risk. He must also wait in rows in front of bank windows with completed 10 or more forms and so on. By the way, as I mentioned earlier, you did not accept these administrative simplifications. So the law brings this category, where there are some 10,000 creators, new or added values, a new possibility and probably a simplification of business. I believe it is time for us to continue to make administrative and tax improvements [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The views of the Government will be explained by Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u130	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament! The new law before us concerns the amendment of Article 111 of the Law. It refers to the determination of general and additional general relief and the eligibility criteria for those allowances. This provision does not apply to the establishment of a tax base, which is referred to in a comparative and legal presentation, when referring to France, Spain and Sweden. The proposed amendment to Article 111, paragraph 4, provides for what is considered to be an activity income, but only as a criterion for determining the eligibility of an individual liable to additional general relief, not as a criterion for determining the tax base. The proposal for a law justifies that, as a result of the existing regulation, there is an unacceptable distinction in relation to income from employment where, for the purposes of determining eligibility for additional general relief, the social security contributions of the worker are deducted from the income from the employment. It is noted that this argument is not correct. Let me get this straight. I have already mentioned that Article 111 lays down the criteria for determining the eligibility for additional general relief. And this criterion is defined as the resident’s total income — not as a tax base — and if it does not exceed a certain amount in the year for which the income is paid. That criterion of total income is defined as gross income, i.e. the sum of the gross income of each individual employee on the basis of income from employment, income from activities, from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, income from the rental and transfer of property rights and categories of other income other than income which is exempt from income payments or which is not included in the tax base. Gross income also covers social security contributions. The fourth paragraph of Article 111, which is amended by the amendment, specifies in particular what is considered to be gross income from the activity in order to make that definition comparable to other gross incomes of the debtors. That provision provides that the profit, which is otherwise a tax base of the activity's income, shall be increased for the social security contributions calculated. In this way, the activity income for the purpose of determining the eligibility criterion for additional general relief is equivalent to other incomes defined as gross income. Since, therefore, as a criterion for determining the eligibility for additional general relief, the common gross income of the debtor and not the common tax base of the taxable person’s income is not appropriate, we find that the proposed amendment to the law does not constitute an unjustified distinction in income from the activity compared to other incomes. The Government notes that the proposal would lead to an inequality in the determination of the criterion for determining eligibility for additional general relief and would place the debtors engaged in the activity in a more favourable position with regard to eligibility for this additional general relief compared to those who acquire other incomes. Therefore, the Government considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration and proposes to the National Assembly that it does not support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Aloj Potočnik will speak on behalf of the Ambassador of the Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u132	Your Honor! Let me actually repeat a few things that are heard and known. A group of Members with first-signed Jozet Tank submitted a proposal for a law amending the Income Act proposing an amendment to Article 111, paragraph 4, of the Income Act, which provides for what is considered to be an activity income as a criterion for determining the eligibility of the debtor for additional general relief. They propose that, in determining the amount of income from the activity, which is the criterion for the application of additional general relief. As an activity income, the difference between income and expenditure is taken into account, including social security contributions. The Government has examined the proposal and, in its opinion, clarified the content of Article 111 of the Income Act and the meaningful linkage of this Article with Articles 48 and 56 of the same Act. It notes that the proposed amendment to the Income Act would lead to an inequality in the determination of the criterion for determining eligibility for additional general relief as it would place the debtors performing the activity in a more favourable position with regard to eligibility for general relief compared to those acquiring other revenue. Indeed, the Group follows the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, considers it sufficiently convincing and does not support the proposal for amendments to the Income Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal to amend the Income Act seeks to achieve the financial burden of independent entrepreneurs of individuals as a very important segment of the Slovenian economy. The main solution of the law is to take into account the difference between income and expenditure when determining the amount of income from an activity which is a criterion for the enforcement of additional general relief as an activity income, including contributions to the social security of an entrepreneur. Under the current regime, social security contributions in determining the difference between income and expenditure are not recognised as expenditure, which means a distinction in terms of income from employment where, for the purposes of determining eligibility for additional general relief, social security contributions to workers are deducted from the income from employment. In the Slovenian People's Party, during the economic and financial crisis, we will support all proposals aimed at decommissioning the economy, as we are aware that, at this moment, increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy is the only way to get out of the situation as quickly as possible and with as few consequences as possible. A way to search for any hair in the egg, how some good proposal by the opposition cannot be supported, probably the right path. We will definitely support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Once again, a good-bye to everyone! Also to our applicants who have submitted a proposal for amendments to the Income Act proposing that when determining the amount of income from an activity which is a criterion for the enforcement of additional general relief as income from the activity itself, the difference between income and income should be taken into account, including contributions to the social security of the entrepreneur. According to the current regulation, social security contributions in determining the difference between income and expenditure are not recognised as expenditure, which would constitute an unacceptable distinction in view of the income from employment, where, for the purposes of determining eligibility for additional general relief, the social security contributions of the worker are deducted from the income from the employment. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we have examined the subject matter and, similar to the Government, we have found that the criterion for determining eligibility for additional general relief is a defined total income of the resident if the resident does not exceed a certain amount in the year for which the income is given. This criterion as gross income, which is specified as the entry into the gross income of an individual taxable person on the basis of income from employment, income from activities, etc., is not included in the tax base. It is clear that social security contributions are also being made in gross income. However, Article 111(4) specifies what is considered to be gross income from activities in order to be comparable to other gross income of the debtors. Thus, the profit derived from the activity is defined as a tax base on the activity’s income and, in accordance with Article 48, the difference between income and income obtained in relation to the operation of the activity is identified. However, for expenditure, compulsory social security contributions are also recognised in accordance with Article 56 of the Income Act, which means that there are no social security contributions covered by the profits and therefore must be added to the profits for the purposes of establishing gross income. This means, in the final stage, that the income from activities for the purpose of determining the eligibility criterion for additional general relief is equivalent to other incomes that are defined as gross income, including income from employment. If, of course, we allow this change in the application of additional aid, we should either fall into the field of other benefits where social security contributions are included in the gross amount, or we should maintain the existing arrangements applicable in practice and everyday life in order to ensure equal treatment of the debtors. Obviously, the proposal did not take into account that the adoption of this proposal would result in an unjustified distinction between the debtors and, of course, we cannot support this bill in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! A group of Members with first-signed Jozet Tank submitted a proposal for a law amending the Income Act proposing an amendment to Article 111(4) of the Income Act, which provides for what is considered to be an activity income as a criterion for determining the eligibility of an individual liable to additional general relief. The draft law states that, in accordance with the current regulation, social security contributions in determining the difference between income and expenditure are not recognised as expenditure, which means an unacceptable distinction in relation to income from employment, in which, for the purposes of determining eligibility for additional general relief, contributions to the social security of the worker are deducted from income from employment. It is therefore proposed to take into account the difference between income and expenditure when determining the amount of income from an activity which is the criterion for the application of additional general relief as an activity income, including social security contributions. With regard to that, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall deliver the following opinion. Article 111 of the Income Act provides for general relief and additional general relief for the debtors in the two minimum income classes. Thus, for 2010, a reduction of the annual tax base of EUR 3 000 100.17 per year shall be recognised in accordance with Article 111(1) to each resident, provided that the other resident does not impose a special allowance for a dependent family member. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 111 of the Income Act, in addition to the relief provided for in the first paragraph of this Article, a resident whose total income from income from employment, income from activities, income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, income from the rental and transfer of property rights and other income, other than income exempt from income payments, or not included in the tax base for the year for which income is paid, shall not exceed EUR 10 000 200, recognise a reduction of the annual tax base of EUR 3 000,1983 per year. In accordance with Article 111(3) of the Income Act, in addition to the relief provided for in the first paragraph of this Article, a resident whose total income from income from employment, income from activities, income from basic agricultural and basic forestry activities, income from the rental and transfer of property rights and other income, other than income exempt from income payments, shall not be included in the tax base for the year for which income is paid above EUR 10 000 200 and not exceeding EUR 11 000 800, shall recognise a reduction of the annual tax base of EUR thousand per year. Since, therefore, as a criterion for determining the eligibility for additional general relief, a defined total gross income of the debtor and not a common tax base on the income of the debtor, the proposed amendment of the law makes no sense as it would result in an unjustified distinction between incomes from the activity and other incomes. The proposed amendment would make it more favourable for the debtors to carry out the activity in this case than for the other debtors, as it would take into account the tax base as a criterion for eligibility for additional general relief and for the other taxpayers, such as the employees, to pay grossly. Thus, for example, two taxpayers with the same gross income from the activity and from the employment relationship would be in a different situation, as the taxable person who carries out the activity would show a lower income due to the difference in contributions and to the non-compliance with the reduction and increase of the tax base, except for the difference in interest, because it would actually be a tax base as a taxable person in the labour relationship, i.e. an employee which would take account of gross wages and not of the tax base and would thus be a taxable person carrying out the activity in a more favourable position. The thinking was also very different from that of previous interlocutors. In fact, as the Government has pointed out, the proposal for a law amending the Income Act would lead to inequality in determining the criterion for determining eligibility for additional general relief as it would place the debtors carrying out the activity in a more favourable position with regard to eligibility for additional general relief compared to those benefiting from other incomes. For this reason, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that this proposal is not acceptable and is not suitable for further consideration. The proposal also agrees with the Social Democrats' Group of Members, and we will therefore vote against the decision to make the law suitable for further consideration, as we assess that such a amendment is not appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u140	Thanks again for saying that. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, which was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Jozet Tank, will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Unlike my predecessor, I think the proposed solution makes sense, the question is whether we want to do it or not. The whole economy, both at home and around the world, is in serious crisis. A particularly sensitive part of the economy is made up of independent entrepreneurs, individuals most exposed to the negative effects of the economic crisis because of their smallness. The problem is not only in the crisis itself, but in the fact that the craftsmen of the country are burdened with the same or even more than before the crisis. In this respect, the state acts as if there is no crisis at all. In our view, the Government is not aware that just a small economy can contribute to the lion's share of the breakthrough in the new development cycle. Because of their dynamics and adaptability, very small entrepreneurs can make the most of it by pulling the wagon out of a ditch in which it has remained or is even sliding down. Of course, the country must come across to these entrepreneurs with its economic and tax policy instruments and help them in this way. In micro and small enterprises, the volume of business has decreased dramatically recently. We are witnesses to the closure of the factories and consequently the dismissal of workers. Overrisk makes it difficult for companies with growth potential to opt for new investments and employment. Entrepreneurs turn to their associations, and this country is rightly expected to take measures to promote creative work, entrepreneurial innovation and business conduct. This proposal is also one of the requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship. The proposal for a law amending the Income Act, the aim of which is the tax or financial burden on individual entrepreneurs, constitutes one such measure. The proposed law is therefore intended to relieve the tax burden on independent entrepreneurs of individuals who constitute an important part of the Slovenian economy. The proposed amendment would take account of the difference between income and expenditure in the definition of the amount of income from the activity which is the criterion for the application of additional general relief, including contributions to the social security of the entrepreneur. With the proposal for a law amending the Income Act, we want to give a clear signal to the small economy that the state wants to help them overcome the crisis period, because we are aware that they need the best business environment to develop and expand their business. At the same time, it will allow them to transfer their entrepreneurial ideas more easily into concrete projects with greater added value. I believe that the law is suitable for further consideration, so we will also support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor as a bill-maker.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Now that we have heard the views of some parliamentary groups, I would like to comment on these views. I must say that I was directly surprised when the representative of the Social Democrats literally read the government's report or the government's opinion and presented it as the position of the parliamentary group, with all the decimals, with all the issues. I think that this way to approach the solution of some serious problem in the country where the National Assembly is actually eccentrically subordinate to the Government, even by directly reading the Government's opinion as the position of the largest party in the National Assembly that it is in some way unacceptable. And that shows it's a government coalition, not just in the verbal part, but also then just a sub-section of the government, the government coalition. I think that laws, the proposals proposed by the opposition side in the legislative process, need to be addressed more seriously, more analytically, in a more serious way. And if the matter is examined, the position can also be presented by any parliamentary group in a different way than by reading the simple opinion of the Government. Even the Secretary of State representing the Government did not do so, but one of the parliamentary groups. And that's the one who entrusted the presentation of the view on the economic issue. However, with regard to some of the views or dilemmas set out in this mandate in the National Assembly, I must only conclude that some of the intensity with which we have overcome administrative and tax obstacles in the previous term is no longer there. In this mandate, we have not actually made any reductions in the number of regulations, the complexity of regulations and so on. No simplifications. In the previous term, there was a tremendous amount of this. The government, the former, has even received recognition for actions and solutions in this area, including the recognition of the UN. In this mandate, we are simply witnessing changes that introduce additional forms in the field of social, student, student diet, primary school diet and so on. There is no change in the field of simplification. Unfortunately, not the kind that actually cost no country. Nothing. Only a few people who are employed in the state administration, tax or any other administration could do some things in a different way, a little bit more, and would relieve every month 10,000 of those who wait outside the window and pay the bills and also pay unnecessary commissions to banks. But that's not possible. I wonder whether, in this mandate, we would have been able to establish an income system like that of the previous mandate with this power of bureaucracy and with this lack of interest on the part of the Minister, including the Secretary of State and others, to change or derail anything in this area. I don't think this system would ever have been introduced in this mandate. Is this coalition capable of abolishing or abolishing a tax on a payment sheet that was like one rarity in Europe? This coalition probably wouldn't do that. It wouldn't be because he still regrets that this happened. It is likely that there is no longer a time when we will be faced with repeated ideas or even concrete acts, measures to reintroduce the tax on the payment list. Here we are simply confronted by the fact that the economy is not burdened, that the economy is not simplified, but that new forms, new taxes are introduced, or that existing ones are substantially increasing, whether it is for tolls, whether it is for excise duties, let it be for other matters. I think there is something fundamental to be done in this area. The fact that the Government does not support the solution is completely nothing new, not in the area of finance or in other areas. Everything we suggest from the opposition species does not deserve the attention of the government. Today we have already considered the amendment to the Agricultural Lands Act. A year and a half ago, this marriage was first introduced. All those who debated in this National Assembly agree with the solution proposed. Everybody. Neither of the discussers said that this solution, which reduces the price for the imposition of the commotion procedure, did agree and the law would fall for the third time. A year and a half. And there are quite a few cases like this in this country. And I, unfortunately, have to find that this coalition snobbery, this arrogance of the coalition, when it does not allow anyone to propose anything, even if it suggests what they agree with, is not accepted: I think it goes beyond all limits in this mandate. It's all borderline. And the tax is paid by the citizens. Here, my colleague said that on average 7 hectares of agricultural land were falling every day. In a year and a half, when we didn't simplify these procedures, and in two years, because the state at that time, this government, has failed to bring to life any invitation to tender, has fallen 700 times 7, how many thousand is that now? 4,000, 5,000 acres of agricultural land. And at that time, 2,000 farms were destroyed, which no one had taken over. It is not a problem that they have failed, but because of the fragmentation of these surfaces no one has taken over. And it's similar in many other areas. In this mandate, we have proposed a series of economic measures, not just those systemic ones for which the Government has finally acknowledged that some of them have been summarized and already implemented. We do not see these measures from our package, which the Government is already carrying out. They have not been submitted, they have not been amended by law, they have not been introduced by laws such as we have proposed in the legislative procedure, but the Government has stated deadly at the last reading that it is already doing so. All these simplifications, solutions, reliefs, stimulations and similar things. None of this happened during this period. None of that. Procedures are equally complicated, problems are the same or even bigger. They can't reach credits, companies and small entrepreneurs. They are easily reached by some of the various cabinets, easy, no problem, under simpler conditions, with lower coverage and so on. And they don't make any deposits for it, just a job that's short-lived, like mine or something. An entrepreneur who invests all his assets can't get to these matters. Here we have, and we have heard this comparison between the employees and those who carry out the activity, there is an important difference. Those who carry out the activity must take care of everything from A to Z, from the establishment, registration of the company from the acquisition of the business, issuance of the accounts, execution of the transaction, recovery, payment of interest and so on, pay in between all those 10 to 15 items at the window each month. We could only pay this once, they must do it all, and for all those mistakes they also pay and give a guarantee with their assets. And all these companies, you put them all in line with those who, after automaticity, we receive the salary that we have to get, either in real or in the public sector. We're not in the same conditions, we're not in the same status. We didn't. And I think that some decision-making authority should consider these things, especially if it has a proposal on the table. If anything is not harmonised between these acts, this can be dealt with exceptionally with by means of a transitional provision, it can be resolved by some change, with a solution, with some harmonisation amendment and similar techniques that the legislative process allows. But if the government on this segment has no interest, if the coalition has no interest, because it is against it, because it comes from the opposite side or the wrong side, then it is. Even those things that we all agree on and that are in full agreement, we cannot accept a solution because it has not been suggested by those who should or could do so after this consultation. I think there is a lot to be changed in this area. The requirements of the Slovenian craft, which they prepare each year, are one of the manuals or manual documents that the Government can use when adopting its rules, acts. He probably also communicates intensively with the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Chamber of Commerce in the preparation of these acts and so on. It is likely that it is the Government that must somehow follow in this dialogue within the context of the possible trends or those demands, the proposals that are emerging. But apparently, I can see that these things don't happen. This booklet was issued in the mandate when Mr Klun, President of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, was a member of the Group of Social Democrats. This proposal, which we are now considering, is written in this booklet under order number, I think, 28. So this is not a proposal that we made up in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. This is a proposal based on the intensive brainstorming of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry at the time that Mr Miroslav Klun led it, and they issued it for 2009. Now I wonder whether these commitments, these proposals adopted and issued by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry – probably on the basis of some professional opinion and cooperation with someone – stand. Perhaps the Member of the Social Democrats, who led the Chamber of Commerce and Industry at the time, is prepared to defend these solutions, which he adopted at the time, as well as to obtain the support of his Group of Members. Or this document, I would say, something like that, is said, because the management of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry is doing some work, something suggests that it covers the entitlement to membership which members of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry must pay. I'm guessing this document isn't just about that. And not the one for 2010. And not the ones that issued it in 2008. Here must be those who are united in this system, necessarily united, somehow concentrated their comments, proposals and also gave solutions. Some normal government, some normal coalition would probably have to follow these solutions that are proposed in these editions, professional editions. Unfortunately, this is very rare in this mandate. It goes beyond those who are interested, it goes beyond those who are entitled to such matters, there is no communication, and unfortunately, solutions fall automatically. That's more than obvious now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Renata Brunskole asked for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u144	Thank you very much. As a Member of the Group of Social Democrats, who represented the position of our Group, I have to respond to the proposaler's opinion, because, in fact, it expresses resentment or perhaps amazement, perhaps resentment was an inappropriate word, rather a surprise that in my presentation, i.e. the position of our Group of Members, I also presented or quoted in one part the Government's position. I think that, a little while ago, when I reached out to another term and the mandate of the previous governments, it was nothing special. There has always been coordination with the Government between the parliamentary groups, the coalition groups, and nothing else, so I think that there is nothing wrong with it. On this occasion, however, I would also like to say that, in the Group of Social Democrats, we understand very well what trade means, entrepreneurship, what self-employment means, income creation, i.e. those who carry out their activities, as well as what it means to be employed, thus differences in relation to facilitations, tax bases. And here certainly goes nothing to the detriment of craftsmen and entrepreneurs, but it is necessary to be the same, and here certain facts really are taken into account. I am sure that this debate today will also lead to the possibility of whether we will come up with a better proposal, a proposal that will be the same for all. This is what we want, and therefore I take this debate today, this proposal, as something positive. I believe that, also by the Government and the coalition groups, this is taken as well, but here, as one of the colleagues said about the hair in the egg, here, when there was a comment that I had taken the opinion of the Government, it is almost as the hair in the egg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the Group of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. He won't discuss it. Mr. Sylven Tiny. He won't discuss it. Dr. Luke Yuri. Here you go, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Good-bye! When I looked at the bill, I accepted it with a positive taste, for it made sense to me. On the one hand, the fact that social contributions are counted among incomes may seem problematic, although, on the other hand, it is also true that after all, the payment of social security contributions by an individual is not only a cost but also an investment or, if we want, a state insurance policy. As a result, a purely conceptual debate is opened here, which we cannot say with certainty, whether it is a cost or whether it is actually an expense to be counted among incomes and, as is the case now, a total amount of expenditure received. But then when we look at it wider, we see this dilemma about whether we should consider it a cost and exclude it from the individual's total income quota or consider it some kind of investment or insurance and therefore consider it part of the total income. Well, all this dilemma disappears when we compare the system that is in place in the case proposed by the group of Members with Mr Tank at the head, with the other group, and that is with the employees. In comparison with employees and self-employed, we need to objectively conclude that the adoption of such a proposal would introduce some inequality, as self-employed persons could consider social security contributions as a cost, while employees would still be considered as a whole basket of gross income on which the income is paid. So I am not saying here that the concept proposed by the Group of Members is wrong, but I am saying that we should find the answer to how to introduce the novel so that it will apply to everyone. Of course, this may also be an excuse many times not to accept a marriage if the marriage is not complex, it does not cover the whole group. But if we are dealing with such an important change, we need to know what we are going to do with that other group of people, the employees. Despite the fact that, and I am aware of this, self-employed are becoming even more self-employed by this financial crisis, becoming a self-employed essential and important part of the Slovenian economy. And here we've probably all given a little bit of attention together to this sphere. When a self-employed person wants to start his work, let's say he's in fact faced a lot of problems and challenges and issues and mistakes and even mistakes by state authorities. While, of course, the employee doesn't have it all. And this has mainly warned the Ministry of Finance that it has given these problems more attention than it has so far. I'm not saying it didn't do anything. Here I have to fix my colleague Tank a little while ago when he mentioned that a self-employed person has to wait in front of the tax office counters every month to settle his tax obligations. It is not mandatory for them to wait before the tax office, because they can use an e-tax system that has not been initiated by the current government and is a longer system where the former government has great merit. Through e-taxes, all those services that should otherwise be carried out on the counter of the tax office. So if a self - employed person wants to come up with some easier solutions, he can. The e-tax service, as far as I know, does not cost, and basically the only thing a self-employed person needs is a computer with which he can access this service. The requirements of the Chamber of Commerce were mentioned. I read them mainly at the beginning of my term of office. Some of them seemed very reasonable to me, and here I would like to join the opinion that it would make sense for the Government to review them again and to have some positive approach at the level of the Minister or the Secretary of State to analyse them, but not to leave them to a group of state officials who are more or less likely to be the same as before. We must admit that people in the government are often inclined to explain to us how something can't be done, not to look for solutions with us, how to work something out. I will now conclude here with one more question for the Secretary of State. In the debate, a recent debate on another proposal by the Group of Members and Mr Tank on the single payment of all posts, it was said that the Government had not yet prepared all the measures by which it could resolve the issue. I am interested in when this will be settled, because this is, although technically still not possible, in my view an important step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Would you like Mrs. Vranicari? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u148	Thank you very much. With regard to the issue raised at the time of the previous hearing, I have mentioned that solutions are being prepared so that solutions at this stage do not need a change of legislation, but need adequate information support and technical changes at the level of the sub-legislative acts. The Interdepartmental Working Group has been in operation for some time. It is true that, in the meantime, her work has been stalled due to the delay in the development of the new renewed Durs information system, but at this point the situation is such that the working group will report to the Government in November on the proposals for solutions, on the necessary changes at the level of the sub-legislative acts, and has determined or clarified that, with effect from 1 July 2011, a substantial change can be expected in terms of simplification in the payment of tax obligations, where the current complex system and a large number of positions will be replaced by three public-level treasury bills, i.e. one for State budget obligations, one for pension obligations and one for health insurance obligations and one for each municipality special post for all obligations to each municipality. The report can therefore be expected in November and the actual implementation of the simplified system of payment of public levies from 1 July next year. Since I am still speaking, allow me to respond to claims or debates regarding the need to take account of the difference between employees and persons carrying out independent activities. This distinction shall be taken into account in determining the tax base. In determining the tax base for employees, we take into account the salary and essentially deduct only social security contributions, while in self-employed persons, the person who carries out the activity, we find profits. It shall be noted as the difference between income and expenditure, with the ability of those with a lower volume of business and those who fulfil the conditions to decide even for the standardised determination of expenditure in a normal manner. All specificities, all the additional costs incurred by taxable persons in connection with the performance of their activities, may be taken into account and taken into account under the specific rules relating to the rules on the establishment of the tax base from which the income is dealt with at the final stage. However, the provision, which is subject to amendment in this bill, does not deal with the tax base, but lays down the conditions under which someone who has a certain amount of income may impose an additional general benefit, either in a higher or a lower amount. In view of the fact that these specificities are already taken into account for independent entrepreneurs in the determination of profits, we estimate that it would not be appropriate and would not be correct for other persons who receive the same or comparable amount of income to take account of this difference or the difference in the criteria for granting this additional personal allowance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u149	Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. [[She won't discuss it.]] Mr. Anton Anderlich. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr Miran Györek [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Rado Likar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u150	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nothing is absolute except that everything is relative. That's the way it is with that equality. Now those who claim that the enforcement or adoption of this law would create an inequality between employees and self-employed or craftsmen, I think this is a matter of judgment. My colleague Tanko said in the introduction that — and now you, Madam Secretary — are the difference between what we used to say comes to work from six to two, or a craftsman who is in fact a director and a player on this stage. But I would like to know whether you reject this bill for substantive reasons or only for formal reasons, I would say, in the light of this 111th article, that this is the difference between the tax base and the conditions that apply to the implementation of this relief. Or, let's say, if we look really smartly, what if this becomes true and this comes, as I have already said in my position, to a convert to an individual or a self-employed person, and in these days, to give him a clear signal that the state is willing to help him in this way, even though it might appear that inequality is creating. As it is said, in this bill we have summarised this requirement of Slovenian craftsmanship and entrepreneurship in the Slovenian Democratic Party. I am convinced that those who are responsible for ensuring an appropriate business environment, both the legislative branch of power and the executive branch of authority, are obliged to do so in some way. The adoption of this law in the first reading would, in my opinion, be a small step for us as a legislative authority, and for craftsmen this would signal that the state is not only standing by their side, it is actually taking an inactive stand, but that it is actively involved in solving and overcoming the problems that small craftsmen face in particular during this crisis. For these reasons, I think it makes sense for this law to be supported in the first reading. And possibly, if it is estimated that this contribution to tax burdens could be arranged in a different way or in a better way. I think that this could also be regulated during the legislative process. Of course, I will vote in favour of the law being suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Györek. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Willie Rezman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Otherwise, I will not quote government material, even though I see nothing wrong with the quotation being corrected, and there is no harm in citing the requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship, of course, if this is correctly quoted. However, I think it is right to respond to what the Government has written down, because at least I think the argument is rational. It seems acceptable to me and I think that it should be taken into account when we decide whether or not the bill will receive support. The bill, the current proposal of the law, is at first glance very simple. We are changing a single article, a single two-word word, just the first sentence, just two letters so within this law, and perhaps it gives the impression that the matter is very simple. I don't think so. And if I have understood some of the discussions correctly, I see that there is some conceptual confusion in how we understand this proposal for a law. Otherwise, I think it is right that the applicants have opened up the issue of income legislation. We can do this in a partial way, as we have the case today, and we could do it more comprehensively, which I would be more inclined to do. I must say that, since this income legislation, which was adopted in the previous term, was involved in the adoption of this income legislation and proposed several amendments, amendments to the rates of income, amendments to the tax burden on the interest on savings, as well as to the so-called large sums of taxes for those who are beneficiaries of the income from the denationalisation obligations. That is why I think that I would much rather support an integrated debate on income legislation, because the one we now have is, at least in my opinion, one that causes it to accentuate the distribution of our society and that it is in fact more favourable to those with large annual revenues and not to those who should be helped by similar legislation to survive every day. If, at first glance, this proposal is very acceptable, because it speaks of how to help those who are self-employed, who are creating value that risks their property and everything else that has been said several times today, then I think it is also reasonable to think about what came from a government opinion that says that this is not a matter of bullying, but it is a fundamental understanding of two different criteria for determining those who are eligible for additional income relief. I think that it would be a mistake to act in such a way as to please those to whom this bill speaks and to cause some distinction unjustifiably to others. I am of the view that independent entrepreneurs and others need to be helped in the business environment, with various facilitations – and some of the benefits already passed are also received – but this is probably not the most appropriate way to cause injustice on the other hand. It is precisely because I believe that this dilemma is, or to help those who invest their own resources, and in this way that it is possible to hurt others, because of this dilemma that I do not believe that the law is really suitable for further consideration, because it is indisputable that this other side, which is not mentioned here, is mentioned in the government opinion, comes into a position that is discriminatory. That's why I'm not going to support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloysius Potočnik. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. East Crossbow.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that the solutions that are being prepared are actually too long, actually taking too long. The measures that remain in Europe are the real advanced economy, the EU countries that promote this small and medium economy, because we know that this is the backbone of the economy. Also in Slovenia this is because 90% of Slovenia’s small and medium-sized enterprises are small and medium-sized enterprises, as far as the economy is concerned. I think there's too little emphasis on that. This is a proposal, and it's a pebble in a mosaic. I think it's still better than waiting another 20 or 30 years to get us some sort of integrated solution. This is especially important for young people. For every day, young people make less decisions about their own ways. I think this could be worrying about Slovenia. Because 10, 20 years from now, we're going to have to ask ourselves what we've done for the economy, that it's in a situation like this when we know that every day is worse. I doubt that as many young people as in the past will decide on separate paths. Importantly, there is a very good environment that encourages a young person to somehow make it easier to get through this basic path, it is said that he registers the company himself. The former government has also done something about this through this electronic business. I think there's a lot of other tools that would help to make more of these self-employment. The most important thing for the country is that there are a lot of people on the stock market who are unemployed. Thus, even if conditions were significantly better, many people could be employed in this way. But now we are in a reverse situation when these companies or jobs are shutting down. It's not good for the state itself. Thus, if we were to improve these conditions, on the other hand, we would have obtained more employment and more inflows into the state treasury itself. I support this proposal of the law, and I think that I will also be all the others proposed by any party, only that this small economy will actually be doing significantly better once it is doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. [[He won't discuss it.]] Franci Kek. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Marjan Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dearly greeted Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we tabled a proposal for a law amending the Income Act, which we send to you for consideration under Articles 114 and 115 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in order to encourage and assist medium-sized and micro-enterprises and independent entrepreneurs. We all know that this is the core of development, the core of an economy that actually forms and is full of state treasury. Also in these times, the state or government only deals with large companies. In these times, small businesses are the most affected. Well, all these big companies you're protecting are putting them in the impossible position of small and micro enterprises as well as independent entrepreneurs. You've also had fatalities, which is very critical. It is also worrisome that we took from the proposals of the Slovenian craft law, which were created years ago – in 2009 the law was adopted – for measures to improve the business of Slovenian entrepreneurship and also of individual entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, today I am concerned that the President of that time is not even in the debate, so I do not know whether he is ashamed or ashamed of writing in his pocket at the time, was involved in this proposal, which we created in fact by craftsmen, entrepreneurs from all over Slovenia. So that we are even more concerned about whether the Government does not allow free thinking to people who were creators of this, who prefer to withdraw or who need to withdraw. You know, in micro-enterprises and medium-sized enterprises, as well as in independent entrepreneurs, there is actually one big panic, panic from this point of view, because they are in charge of giving every 5 or 15 so much and so much to workers as to themselves. This is where the state or government really doesn't burden themselves with it. Because you know whether or not we know it's the wages of the fifth. I'm ashamed of the fifth to take charge here. I'll give it to the other economists who are suffering. It would be good if everyone decided to get the economy. The fifth salary, you or we get it 15 or 6 months from now. This is the reason for this, the reason for this bill that we are proposing today. You know, speak empty promises, keep a fig in your pocket. Today, students shared figs before parliament, figs intended for the government, Minister. Everyone is desperate, even though I am a member of this great house here, but believe me, I feel for these citizens, the economists who create, who we do not want to oppose, to reduce red tape. Bureaucrats are killing the economy. That's the biggest problem. One small proposal, which we have already submitted last year on the payment of bills, which actually have to be sent by craftsmen or entrepreneurs to 11 different addresses that could be combined into one, two or three. It's true that you're afraid of red tape, that someone won't have a job. You'd better not have it today, so tomorrow's economy will be more successful and you'll have a job tomorrow. Not just one, a lot more people. By killing the economy, we kill ourselves. I don't know why we don't want to understand, we don't want to hear it, we don't want to hear it. You may have those patriotic caps in your ears that no one wants to hear any proposal, adopt no proposal, take into account the opinions of the whole of Europe, not just a few individuals, or I do not know whether you are separating us from each other here. That's sad. In here we should work constructively for development, for jobs, but not to participate after the meeting of the National Assembly, as if there were nothing, but now like a dog and a cat. It's not going anywhere. Let's not fool around with these things. Let's start thinking. It'll be too late tomorrow. You want to kill again, you want to destroy this little entrepreneur, a self-employed businessman who, after all, had the courage to create a business, has self-employed 10, 20, 30, 200 people today. You need to destroy, that's your view, your opinion. I'm afraid you're mistaken. You're gonna kill yourself. It's true when you get a salary on the 5th, it's got to be pay. That's your opinion. No matter what, if there's no money, we'll make an extra payment. Where's the end of this? We have proposed an incursion, as far as revenue is concerned, is the amount of expenditure. No, you don't accept that either. You know the saying, "With foreign money to boast, it's very simple and beautiful." To find someone who haunts you with this foreign money, that's the problem. We want to, but there's no listening. Once again, let's start thinking constructively, looking for solutions for the economy, because every good economist is a culturer, he's an athlete, so I won't list everything. Every'self-cultured' who doesn't know what the economy is is is a big problem. I hope that you will accept this proposal, confirm it. I know you need to build an upgrade on this, but this is the beginning. Let this be the first reading so that tomorrow we can discuss additional things and coordinate them so that it will be right for us, for you and for all. I want you to start to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u157	The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. [[adverts from benches]] You haven't discussed as much as I've been following. You can't explain your point of view because you haven't told him yet. I'm sorry. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. [[He won't discuss it.]] The word is Willy Trophynik. [[He won't.]] Franco Yuri. [[He won't.]] Alenka Jeraj. Here you go, Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u158	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll support our marriage. I think that everything we do for the economy, the small economy, is also important if there ever are small steps, they can be very big for that entrepreneur who has two, three, five employees. When our Group walks on the ground and visits businesses and craftsmen, they always say to us: "Look, we will work, but do not burden us any more, not squeeze us any more, because we are already breathing a little on the gills, and let us do what is right, but do whatever is right or any kind of relief are welcome, because times are hard and no one is friendly at this moment at least to the economy." And they also say that first everyone works for themselves, then only for the country, and if the country were more friendly to them, but not often to the stepmother, this cooperation could be much better and we could have more of it, and consequently more of the country if they are satisfied and if they can do things. I will not repeat what my colleagues have already said, even if we have repeatedly proposed similar laws, nor do you want to confirm them in the first reading and let them go forward so that we can even talk about them, it seems very unfair to me, despite, say, many times in the previous term we have tried to cooperate with the opposition and we have accepted many things together. This eternal rejection of all our proposals does not come to a serious coalition. In any case, we would expect you to at least listen to us and not just wave your hand at every thing and say that what we suggest is wrong. We are already in a situation where different groups are turning to us, i.e. interested groups for different laws or proposals of law, and we advise them to get support from you, because if one thing is proposed by us, the SDS, this will be rejected without anyone discussing it and without anyone refusing with any argument what we are proposing. This is not a good way because people do not understand that we are not all working together for the future of this country. This is supposed to be our primary objective for all of us, whether we are in the opposition or we are in the coalition. That is why we have always tried to compromise, and at least in those things that are really crucial, we have tried to win at a time when we led the government and were a coalition party, to win the opposition's votes for this. We are talking about the future of all of us and our children. It is therefore incomprehensible to reject, ignore, and disobey, and then we all wonder why the situation is as it is. I'll back our bill. But I wish we could at least try to hear each other, and I don't think this should be so hard.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Lois Posedel will not discuss it. Mag. Radovan Žerjav. Here you go, Mr. Zerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll admit this time I'll be a little cynical. I will deliberately be cynical, which is not in my habit, but this time perhaps I could say that there is nothing new in Slovenia. The opposition is suggesting that the coalition is against it because it is against it. In particular, I would suggest that you no longer write these good explanations in the Ministry, why you are against the opposition proposals, because it is really a waste of the time and money you spend on this. Just say you're against it, and we'll figure out what it is. I'll go back to the excise once again because it really pisses me off, so he can't take me anymore. When we warned that the matter was not right, we were even ridiculed. My fellow Member of the Presbyterian, that I will not say, even a mockery, that we are wrong. Turns out we were right. Sometimes this other side has something right and it would be right to admit it. I'm worried about the severe, severe stubbornness. This is really one porch where all possible arguments and all possible options are found to make a proposal that is good or not good, in short, to be rejected because it comes from the wrong side. As President of the Slovenian People's Party, I have also repeatedly said publicly that we want to function differently, that we want to be constructive in key reforms. Ito would also expect in the economic field. Although we are not talking about economic reform, we are not talking about the measures that would be necessary for this economy, but I think it would take a little more communication and, above all, the cooperation of both sides. By the way, in the Slovenian People's Party we are always monitoring statistics of support for government proposals in some way. This percentage of support to government proposals moves to 85%. 85% of the government's proposals in the Slovenian People's Party have been supported, at least since the beginning of the mandate until now and some important reforms as well. Therefore, I simply do not understand this arrogant stubbornness, self-sufficiency, complacency and little self-criticism. Sometimes you have to be a little critical of yourself. What worries me even more is that either it is not understood or it does not want to understand or the logic is completely different. In fact, it is not understood that the Slovenian economy needs to be unloaded. Worse. We even have cases in between where we're working the other way around where we want to put pressure on him. This is actually, otherwise I can't explain to myself how it's some logic of some bureaucrats who haven't worked in the economy for another minute in their lives. Not for one minute. Because if we worked in the economy for one minute, we'd probably be thinking a little differently. It is a logic when, in fact, we adjust the revenue in the budget instead of having the opposite logic to adjust the expenditure to revenue and, therefore, we have an abnormally high expenditure and it is necessary to adjust the revenue to this in order to have some pervasive deficit. By the way, in 2011 we will have one and a half billion more expenditure than we had at that time in that year, for example in 2008, after which we hear here many times the sign that these were the times of fat cows. At the time of those fat cows, when I said that they had already swallowed one way or another, there was expenditure from the state budget for about 8 and a half billion. Today, with times of severe economic and financial crisis, we are planning 10 billion. What logic is that? I just don't understand the logic. In short, 10 billion in a time of crisis, in a time of fat cows 8 and a half billion with about the same revenue in the budget. That means, man would say, it's not a crisis. It was obvious to the previous government that it was spending without every obstacle, without every obstacle, in short, with hats and fists, as it is called, but the expenditure was eight and a half billion, we're planning ten. But we will probably talk more about this when we address both the budgets, the 2011 balance and the 2012 budget. What do you say? It would probably be best even here in the opposition, where we are not actually making any relevant and acceptable proposals to go to work something else by the end of the term, perhaps in an economy where we will do something more productive than to make constructive proposals here, which are all rejected in order because they have been proposed by the opposition. Let's show a little more constructive, really. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Slapnik. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Brunskol, you don't have much time. You won't take advantage of it. Okay. You want a word on behalf of the Government? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u162	Thank you very much again for your word. Mr Likar had previously asked in his debate whether the Government rejected the proposal for a law for substantive or formal reasons. It's from content. We have carefully examined the bill and observed that it does not follow in the right way the logic introduced by the Income Act throughout the system. As I mentioned earlier, on the one hand, provisions setting out how to determine the tax base should be taken into account, and in determining the tax base, we are already deducting social security contributions from the income or profits of the taxable person in order to get to the tax base from which the taxable persons are paying the income from the activity. And also for those taxpayers who determine the tax base by taking into account standard expenditure and in addition to standardised expenditure, we recognise as expenditure the paid social security contributions. And this is the tax base segment, which is the scope from which the tax is paid. The provision of Article 111 is intended to establish an income censorship which is important to determine whether an individual is entitled to an additional personal benefit or not. Our professional and substantive opinion is that in this case it is necessary to look at employees and self-employed persons alike. And for this substantive reason, we cannot support the proposed law. It has been repeatedly mentioned that we need to do something to relieve entrepreneurs and small businesses. This proposal would, however, put those debtors who achieve the lowest income from self-employment slightly at the same time put them in a privileged position vis-à-vis employees. In the past period, however, a number of steps have been taken in determining the tax base, which is a more important element in assessing whether we are decommissioning the economy or not, to ensure greater competitiveness or to ensure a reduction in the burden under the budgetary options. Let me mention some. In cooperation with the opposition, a decision was taken to reintroduce investment relief for individuals' entrepreneurs. This year, an exemption or tax relief was added for the employment of certain categories of workers. This year's tax relief for R & D investment was increased. If I limit myself only to those measures that have been taken in the field of income or activity tax. In addition, I must mention raising additional personal relief at the beginning of this year, which is also provided to craftsmen or entrepreneurs by individuals with the lowest income. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u163	Thank you. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor as a proposaler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the political option currently managed by the country, we can find that its attitude towards small craft or self-employed has not changed in essence. We still treat these people the way you used to when class enemies were number one. So I am surprised or not by the debate and attitude of both the coalition and those who are in charge of this system today. Here we propose for those who are in this process of self-employment and these matters lead to better conditions, not worse and not equal conditions, because they also invest significantly more in this process in order to be able to carry out the activity, significantly more. I said earlier that these are the people who give up their assets to carry out their activities. These are the people who have to get a deal and have to issue an account, do business, recover things. You're not in the same position as someone who works with someone. It is a service provider and has nothing to worry about except that it has a good contract with the employer and that, on the day when it is necessary, the employer pays the salary and settles the contributions. This one has to do everything else. I'm surprised that the government coalition is unable to understand these distinctions between these two categories. It's a big difference. That is why we are proposing this solution, which would put you in a different position. It's like if you applied to those who own a car, the same rules as for pedestrians. They cannot apply exactly the same rules. In one part, there are common matters and then there are certain rules and other rules for those who are motorised participants. They can't all walk four kilometers an hour. Some people drive on highways and there's one rule, and some people walk on foot. It gets in touch somewhere, but in many cases it doesn't. The rules should be adapted to categorisation, a category of those for which differences can be identified. In this area, I think we should do much more to stimulate entrepreneurship. In this mandate, if I recall correctly, we have proposed some 22 laws on aid, subsidies, facilitation, promotion of the economy and I believe that three packages of measures. The distinguished Secretary of State, not one of the measures covered, has received positive support from some under 50, 60 proposals for solutions, nor has one of the laws. What you mentioned earlier in your response is that you and the opposition have accepted. No, you rejected our proposals every time and then you proposed your solution. In such a way that by exhausting the government coalition, we came up with a solution that meant a leap, and then you made it worse yourself in this area, but that's not the way. I think that every judgment coalition can detect in the proposals proposed by the opposition parties, the meaning of a solution, even if these solutions are supported by some broader interest points and the demands of various associations. We cannot view this as some kind of proposal just for them to be proposals. We do not want to participate in these discussions in the National Assembly just for the sake of discussions. We don't have that ambition. I can honestly tell you that. We propose solutions and participate in the proposals to make our proposals, our views, so that we can also give the coalition another perspective. Any coalition that is not blinded can see a lot of good in these proposals. I doubt that in our Group, we have changed so much in our party after the elections that we would not be able to prepare a single proposal for the entire period of two years that would go through the legislative process and be acceptable to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. That's exactly what happened. I would very much like to see anyone in the National Assembly present a list of the proposals that we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party in this mandate either in the form of laws or in the form of amendments, and find out how much this has been adopted, accepted by the coalition. Do you really think that we do not have anything to prepare for what is acceptable and good for the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? Look, we're dealing with a relatively small change here, it has, you said, some consequences. Probably not a lot of financials, but even if it does, there's nothing wrong with it, because it's a segment that covers about 30,000 legal persons, 40,000 can, 50,000 and just as many families, it says, hit about 150,000 people. You will come in a few days if I understand correctly the discussion that took place between the government departments, with a special SCT guarantee law that saves one person only so that a private company gets a stake in some business in Libya. This is a national approach that is the same for all and will go through the parliamentary procedure and the government procedure with its left hand. And that's what's right, despite reading a lot of privileged positions in newspapers. There are various suspicions of various acts that are not exactly law-abiding, but that will not be a problem. Is this an approach that puts everyone in this country in an equal position that allows everyone to participate in what citizens create with taxes and save in banks, and gives them all equal opportunities then forward? This certainly is not the case. And in this mandate, citizens have probably realized that laws are only passed for privileged groups, only for those who are expensive to government offices. Laws for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are not adopted, unfortunately. If we were to adopt this solution, for example, to provide additional tax reliefs to all those in the small economy or who would like to allow any other solutions that we have proposed, then I would understand that you have such a position and attitude, but only solutions in this mandate are adopted in which privileged groups and privileged enterprises participate. See, the entire government cabinet with the Prime Minister of the Government at the helm was involved in the search for funds for loans to the Ljubljana GREP to finance and pay the subcontractors of those who built the stadium. There was no problem in activating the President of the Government, the government officials, to gather, secure and form a consortium that will give around €110 million to cover the obligations of the stadium in Ljubljana. It wasn't a problem. Half the government's furniture must have been involved in this arrangement. For any other company in any other congregation, some small congregation thus consists of ministers and lobbies where their place is not, and they seek provisions in the budget even where they are not supposed to be and cannot be found? This probably tells us a lot about the attitude of this government coalition towards citizens. Many more such cases could be listed. A small entrepreneur who, as a subcontractor, finds himself in a chain of large companies, but cannot do so, cannot see his problems, cannot see them. That little thing there, the little entrepreneur will be there by now, and the big manager needs hundreds of millions of euros for his private company, which he seduced and owned in one way or another, probably not in the most transparent way, and here the government has no prejudice to do so. We have adopted guarantee schemes for the economy, we have supported them, but the management of these funds from these guarantee models from, say, the Bank's SID resources is left to a team appointed by the Minister for Development in 70%. Anyway, that's what the law says. And perform an important function. Now I'm just asking if this isn't too much public information: how much of this money have we been talking about today? Was it again some or some 10 chosen who have the need to finance their projects that we should not know anything about? We or you have difficulty giving money to those who set up their assets to carry out their activities. They have chosen such a concept, such a model, and there is a great difficulty in providing these people, who have given everything to work and support their family, a different position from that of their employees. But Mr Zidar also has a different position than his employees. Essentially different. The government treats him substantially differently. And there are many who have a different, privileged situation in this country. Before I conclude, I would also like to touch upon these conclusions of government proposals, government opinions on the proposals we are putting forward in the Slovenian Democratic Party. You always write there that, for these reasons and for these reasons, the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration and is not supported by the Government. I believe that, for the reasons stated in this debate, the Government is not fit to carry out a further function, it is not capable of caring for the well-being of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u165	Thank you. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Yeah, I'm opening the application. Mr. Petan, please! You have a five-minute word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. I'll start here, where the first-signed marriage ended. But I already said that once. The fact that all our proposals proposed by the SDS in this mandate are marked as not suitable for further consideration. I think that given that there were so many of them that statistics are already in place here, then it's a little strange that no one would really be nearly fit for further consideration, but that they could possibly complete it in the second, third reading. The question arises whether such a government, which rejects such proposals with such arguments, is even appropriate to lead Slovenia forward. This is an essential issue in such an explanation. We all know that we are also a social state, at least that's what the Constitution says, but how it is in practice, and we can probably deal with this issue a little bit, and this content, if that's true at all. About what has been said a lot lately, about the famous reconstruction of the house in Murglah, when the workers of Vegrad, Mr Kumer, did their jobs, then lost their jobs, Vegrad went bankrupt, also the material was supposed to be driven from another construction site, even the workers were supposed to be from that construction site, then we wonder if we are really a social state. Social? For who? Probably not for those who are most in need of social services, but for someone else. We do not find the good will to adopt any law proposed by the opposition to help the small economy in order to facilitate it even in the smallest sense, with the least possible means or sometimes without the necessary resources, but only the good will to do so is not found. It has been mentioned that we are likely to solve the SCT problem very soon on these benches. This is the company that's supposed to be working in Libya. Yesterday, too, the Slovenian Press Agency reported that it is this company that will have to pay every day for its insolvent work in Bosnia, I do not know how many ten thousand Euro Penals. This is the company. Because of the insolvent work in Bosnia, she'll have to pay for the pens. Is it now possible for those pennants to be included in this proposal when we give a guarantee when the state gives a guarantee? There's no limit. But when we talk about a small craftsman, perhaps a self-employed person, there is not enough will to allow this self-employed person to pay ten bills in one or three, as was said, or in four. No, the information system on the deck is not adapted. What must be changed now? Or this craftsman, self-employed or information system? What's the state for? It seems that the policy of this country, the policy of this coalition, the new paradigm is such that the entrepreneur will have to change. That probably doesn't work. There's something wrong here. We have to ask ourselves: Is this really an economic policy of a country? Is this an economic policy, a financial policy of some elites? There's a lot of talk about elites that sometimes it's lame, but it seems to hold it in Slovenia. That it is no longer a government that rules on behalf of all citizens and for all citizens, but only for some elites. Look what else is going on. If it wasn't for this famous house under the bimbos of 7 in Murglas, we'd probably shut it all up, even those research journalists would've shut it up. This government, however, continuously criminalizes the directors of large Slovenian companies, czech how they have done wrong in the past. And those companies are working with profits. No, this has to be criminalized in order to hide the various Underbelly 7, not to talk about it, but also to talk about those directors who are not guilty of anything that have done well. But since the directors were also in the time of another government, they must be shown how they were doing criminally at the time. They've been proven nothing, and they won't. And even Finnish television can't turn lies into truth. And I'm surprised that all our proposals are characterized as inappropriate. I support this proposal, which we have proposed, and I hope that we will make more such useful proposals for Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Campus, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u168	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! I have to agree with my colleague Tank in some segments concerning entrepreneurship and crafts. The craftsman is specific and guarantees all his assets. He may also be self-employed and is currently performing his functions, which the company has, on its own. But to move forward and today to have a lot of words about our colleague Klun and to show a book of Slovenian crafts for 2010 when our colleague Klun was no longer president. At the expense of this, I will raise the volume of the request of the Slovenian craft 2008 in which statistics 2005, 2006, 2007, where colleague Klun was still the president. And, Your Honor, I must tell you that I am very disappointed because there were 8.3% of them during this period. the realisation of the requirements of craft and entrepreneurship in Slovenia. Colleagues, you only achieved 8.3% every year, every year, when President Clooney and you led the government. Don't fly in the air today and brag about it. Therefore, this is not an incentive to realise, of course, 100% of 8.3% of the requirements. There were 60 requirements and then you need to know, many of these parameters have been realized. Since I have a little knowledge of craftsmanship, I must say that of course I support what you have shown, but of course you have not talked about the real issue. He is no longer the president of Klon, and he was not even prepared for the 2010 Slovenian craftsmen's thesis. In these issues, many important things, such as promoting the development and growth of micro and small enterprises, the labour market is comparable to the EU market, falling into the pay of non-discipline and so on. Today, however, it is necessary to address this point, so today we are considering the point of the Income Act, saying that this does not have much to do with it, as previously said. So profit brings a tax base from which all contributions are paid. I have heard from a colleague of the secretary that a number of things have been achieved from this year's demands, today's 2010 requirements, namely investment relief, which is extremely welcome for craftsmen and entrepreneurs, and especially in today's times, then additional research and development facilitations. Of course, I will not say that there is a large percentage of craftsmen and entrepreneurs who also have research and development in their business, but there are some that they have, which are the "spy companies" we all bet on. I am particularly pleased with what is not to be overlooked, namely, additional personal benefits for those who have the lowest income. There are many of these craftsmen and entrepreneurs who today do not achieve for various reasons, not only at the expense of the crisis in Slovenia and Europe, which is also due to various causes, nor to basic personal income. And no wonder this relief, we call it personal relief, is welcome. I promise myself this – if I leave now on the side of the Income Act, which has almost nothing or nothing to do with it – that these requirements will give rise to the realization of some important issues for further development. If I reconsider the Income Act that we are considering today, I would also appeal — I will not support it, because there are no major changes. However, I would like to see the requirements of Slovenian craftsmanship realized as much as possible and we are trying to get so far as possible that the business of crafts and entrepreneurship in Slovenia will be slightly more favourable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr. Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Of course, it is right for everyone to boast about what he might have done during his reign. More importantly, what needs to be done. I thank the Secretary of State for that explanation. I also understood it, but we assume that this solution, as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, would be adopted. In this case, the employees wouldn't lose anything, so they'd be on the same page. However, tradesmen and self-employed people would probably save some tolar, and probably, as far as tax burden is concerned, this would be reduced. I was wondering if you could also tell me what that would mean if this solution was taken. Could it be unconstitutional or I do not know how else, contrary to any positive legislation, if this solution were adopted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u172	Thank you. I'd like to add something to what I said before. A colleague from Social Democracy can do statistics, we'll see what that statistics will be when they're done during their government. Even if a few things have been done for 8% every year, they have. And as I said before, it is necessary to take small steps, because it is often difficult to reach a wider circle, because this also means financial outflows – say – from the budget and the like. That is why things need to be done gradually, and that is why laws are being introduced in this way. What we have already talked about is that all our suggestions are inappropriate. At the time our government led the country and when we were the largest coalition party, this country had the very positive results: the lowest public debt, the lowest unemployment and a whole bunch of positive indicators themselves. By making it difficult for you to tell us that we have no idea in anything and that therefore all the suggestions coming from this side are not appropriate. This is really the least offensive to all of us, to the professional world that is preparing these things, in which there are also some former ministers who have been very successful in addition to Members. It is very unfair to say that these suggestions are inappropriate because this says something about those who make such an assessment. So, inappropriate. In short, the Government, one of the most successful countries in this country, is making inappropriate proposals. We will have to really think about whether we will even try this way, because it is insulting for Members as well. We're the MPs who are supposed to be making laws that are supposed to propose things. But obviously everything we're proposing on this side is not good for this country. We do not believe in this and it will be necessary to draw a line under all these proposals and things that were really bad, which were rejected just because they are proposed by the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u174	Thank you very much. It must be said here that the quality of our proposals will be dealt with by Members who do not even read the proposals, who also have not read this proposal and who have literally read two-thirds of the views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on this law. This tells us a lot about how the coalition in the National Assembly deals with the opposition's proposals and, above all, with the proposals of our Group. The fact is that small companies are not in an equal position with large companies. If you remember correctly, in the case of the Contingency project, contracts were signed, which explicitly stated that no small business should be spoken of, to the public. It's an explicit provision. It's not like they don't pay them big. This was a compulsory commitment under these provisions. And interestingly enough, no one reacted to such a provision when it came to the public, no one in the government, none of the investigative or other authorities, because it is an enforced provision. It's not a normal business relationship, it's a forced business relationship. None of those who should do anything, not even a guardian, say, no. The fact is that the business environment and the situation are changing. That's certainly true. However, it is difficult to accept the fact that, despite these changes in the business environment, we cannot somehow succeed or achieve any significant changes in the legal environment, the legal basis, the tax solutions, in order to enable those entities in the newly created situations to make their situation different or better. These harsh positions taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this mandate are diametrically opposite to what we have done in the past mandate, which is difficult to understand. In the past mandate, we have managed with some dynamics, with great dynamism to change regulations in many areas, in administrative work, in the tax area, in many other areas. And we have managed to adapt this dynamic and enable the Slovenian economy to facilitate accessibility, flexibility, flexibility, the possibility of faster company registrations and so on. Suddenly, after 2008, such changes are no longer possible. And basically, the camera remained exactly the same. At the Ministry of Finance, most people stayed the same, five people changed in the cabinet, maybe some director of the department, everything else is the same. It is said that leadership, the government of the Republic of Slovenia and the minister with their teams do not know, do not want, can not reach and train this system in order to be more flexible to adapt to the new situation, or the apparatus is so powerful that it is impossible not to do so. However, either one or the other, the combination of both in this bad work is bad for the country in which we live. The fact that we cannot make any changes, no incentive framework for anything, certainly also affects economic growth. It certainly affects the increase in the number of unemployed, and it certainly affects the problems of all cash registers, pensions, health, state budget. And also by overburdening the economy and households with additional taxes, excise duties and more, there is little that helps the country to function within the Maastricht criteria at all. He can't. And the responsibility for this stiffness certainly lies with the current government and government coalition to the greatest extent. Not because of the situation she was in, but because she failed to prepare any smart action to help reduce, reduce or eliminate this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u175	Thank you. Although the Secretary of State has not called in in time, she wishes to say something. Does anyone object? Yeah, well, I'm sorry, it's time to pick up the phone next time. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday, 26 October 2010, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Agenda item — First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Transactions, Procedures for Insolvency and Forced Discontinuation. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the law's proponents to Mr Rad Likar for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u176	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A nice greeting to the government representatives and everyone else present! In Slovenia, according to the Agency for Public Records and Services, 5 000 378 legal persons with mature outstanding obligations, of which 22% were in construction. The average daily amount of outstanding legal persons' obligations reached in September amounted to EUR 311,99 million and even EUR 318.67 million in August this year. Apes data cover legal persons other than individual entrepreneurs and relate only to bank account blockades that have lasted for 5 days or more continuously. This statistics also cover only unpaid obligations under enforceable decisions on compulsory recovery by courts or tax administration. One of the main causes of the already diseased state of universal payment non-discipline in our business environment is certainly the great inefficiencies of Slovenian companies. It is true, however, that payment non-discipline did not appear at the same time as the economic and financial crisis, but has been going on ever since independence. In times of crisis, it has become only more visible and its consequences are also more sensitive. So the reasons for such a situation can also be found elsewhere. Business operators are increasingly delaying the payment of their obligations, even as institutional frameworks enable them to do so, making business morality worse. The issue of payment non-discipline was also discussed at the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy and also at the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. Representatives of economic, craft and entrepreneurship chambers have made a number of proposals to improve the situation in this area. One of these was to publicly publish a list of debtors with outstanding outstanding liabilities on the websites of the Public Records and Services Agency. The main solution to the bill is the public disclosure of unpaid debtors. The public disclosure obligation shall cover debtors from the private and public sectors, namely legal persons and independent entrepreneurs and individuals, public authorities, municipalities and its branches with legal personality and public service providers. The debtors will thus be obliged to provide the APIS with information on the total amount of outstanding obligations under the contractual relationship and the average number of days late from that title. Apples publishes the data received publicly, and management and public publication costs would be borne by the state budget. A more detailed content and method and deadlines for the collection of such data shall be laid down by Apes, subject to the prior agreement of the Minister responsible for the finance. This law also covers state authorities and local communities, although it may be more appropriate for them to define this issue in the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets, but the proposaler, under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, is not in a position to propose a law on the implementation of the budget, can only be proposed by the Government. Unpaid liabilities of taxable persons are outstanding, these are taxes and contributions, and the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which already has these data, has published. The proposed law therefore aims to establish a payment culture, allow for a free and transparent system of review of the payment capacity of legal persons and independent entrepreneurs of individuals, and determine the actual extent of payment non-discipline in Slovenia. The public disclosure of debtors with outstanding liabilities will have a positive impact on the conclusion of transactions, as partners will be able to easily verify the payment capacity and habits of their customers. Debtors with unpaid dues will be more motivated to settle their liabilities, some of the current situation exploits and does not settle liabilities, although they have the resources because they are so financed free of charge, as this will improve their ratings and thus the conditions under which they can operate on the market. However, the State or Government will be given an insight into the actual state and size of the payment discipline in Slovenia, i.e. the basic data on which it can take further action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, will present the Government's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u178	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Let me present to you the Government's position on the proposed amendments and the addition of the Financial Business Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination. The basic objective of the proposed law, as introduced by the group of Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, is to ensure greater payment discipline. However, the solution to achieve this objective is public disclosure of data on debtors other than private or consumers. In principle, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the legitimate and well-founded objective pursued by this amendment, but does not support the way it proposes to address this problem. The solutions that are before you today are not the content of the Financial Operations Act and the insolvency and forced termination procedures, as this law mainly regulates insolvency and forced termination proceedings and the rules governing the financial operations of companies and other legal entities in which the insolvency status takes place. The government also considers that the solutions to the proposed law are not balanced in terms of the disclosure of the financial situation of a particular public company. The financial position and business of the debtor shall only be fully disclosed to the public in insolvency proceedings, since it is only then that the interests of the creditors prevail due to the simultaneous and proportionate payment of their claims on the debtor's interests. To date, however, public disclosure of outstanding debt data is not balanced. This is also a disclosure of the financial situation to those entities which would otherwise never have dealt with such an undertaking. Expansion of management's liability in relation to creditors is not systemic. Self-declaration or its false or unrealistic content cannot be in the context of cause of damage to creditors who would not have achieved the full payment of their claim in bankruptcy. According to the law, these situations also relate to cases where the debtor has not yet received insolvency status. On the contrary, Article 42 of the Act provides, legally, as a condition for the liability of managers vis-à-vis creditors, for those infringements or infringements relating to the situation where the company is insolvent or if the management could determine that if it were to deal with the appropriate professional care required of it. Business operators can also now easily, quickly and effectively verify the payment capacity of other business entities in the context of the established APIS services. Thus, they can obtain a number of information to verify their current and future business partners or other participants in trade, namely: free access to the data of the Business Register of Slovenia, in publications in the registration procedures of the Court Register, in the publication of insolvency proceedings, in the annual reports of individual companies and independent entrepreneurs as well as legal persons of public law. Apes also provides credit ratings for all Slovenian companies and other credit information on other business entities that are much more reliable to assess the payment capacity of business entities than could be collected according to a bill. No support can be found for the proposed solutions in the draft law in view of the proposed regulation in other legal systems and the adaptability of the proposed regulation of European Union law. The provisions of Directive 2000/35 do not impose rules on Member States to make it possible to publish publicly the data on debtors with outstanding and outstanding obligations. In view of everything that the Government has said, it opposes the proposal of the law and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u179	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. During the economic crisis, payment non-discipline became the main problem of the Slovenian economy. More and more companies or organisations are being financed by simply not settling their obligations towards suppliers, employees and countries or settling them with much delay, which, at the end of the day, can cause a lot of good and promising businesses to fail due to liquidity problems at the end. Paying non-discipline has become a cancer of the entire Slovenian economy. You could say she became part of Slovenian business culture, I'm sorry. Businesses and partners from abroad are also aware of this. A few Slovenian companies who want to compete fairly in a foreign market cause a number of problems. The main solution to the bill is free. It is a preventive measure to protect potential partners and future creditors by establishing a mandatory public declaration of debtors with outstanding liabilities. Infringement of this obligation under law would result in the liability of members of the management of private and public companies. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the objective of the proposed law, which is to establish a payment culture, to enable a free, simple and transparent system of review of the payment capacity of legal persons and independent entrepreneurs of individuals and to determine the actual extent of payment non-discipline in Slovenia. Of course, we are not surprised that the Government opposes the bill. In fact, this has almost become part of the culture. But what bothers us most is that under every criticism, government carelessness is about this issue. The protection of information on the financial situation of an undertaking is, in its view, more important than the objective of preventing the liquidity problems of those undertakings that may still operate fairly. The saddest part is that the Government is not proposing any alternative solution, no better solution, in fact no solution in this very acute area. As if Slovenia had no problems in this area, as if it had no problems with the Slovenian economy in this area, which is unacceptable. We will, of course, support this law in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State! July came into force as a bill aimed at preventing financial non-discipline by speeding up enforcement procedures and thus mitigating business risks for companies, independent entrepreneurs and other economic operators. For re-regulation, enforcement proposals based on the executive title are fully regulated in Article 40 of the enforcement proposal and Article 41 of the authentic instrument. The proposer advocates the establishment of a payment culture and, of course, discipline within the envisaged deadlines, which must be transparent and also allow for a view of legal persons' ability to pay. It is unacceptable that companies that are liquid and also have profits take advantage of the current situation and do not settle obligations to suppliers and subcontractors that depend on their good will solely because they are large and are in good relations with the ruling coalition. The law follows the principle of disclosure of the financial position and the operation of the debtor with outstanding liabilities. The law also follows the principle of risk mitigation, which will be reduced by the adoption of this law for all market participants. Late payments and non-payments to creditors are increasing, although we would expect the case to improve. The legislation that gives all legal power to the judicial authorities and authorities in this area is obviously under-appreciated and unexploited. Banks are very cautious, which is also true, as experience has been too much for some applicants, so credit crunches are still taking place. However, banks are more flexible when it comes to short-term and consumer credits, which are less risky and more profitable. For companies that have become in difficulty due to payment non-discipline, credit is certainly a solution. However, it seems that only for a short period of time, because if the situation in the field of payment policy improves, this is devastating for any company facing such problems. Entrepreneurs warn us that something has to be arranged under urgency, because it is too little for you to have much work to do, but if payment discipline is not respected. Large companies are blackmailing their subcontractors and suppliers with their hands exceeding 120 and more days to pay. That's what destroys little people for meals. It is not enough to have good marriages, but if no one respects them and knowingly violates them. If we want to keep the economy, especially a little, at the level we have, and help keep jobs, the perpetrators will need to be sobered. However, institutions responsible for the consistent implementation of the legislation will have to carry out their work professionally, as only in this way will we help to keep the economy above water. In the Slovenian National Party, we have supported every good intention of the law, and this is how we will do it this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. Well-welcome Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues, chairman! The Group of Members and Members submitted to the National Assembly for consideration the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination. The basic objective of the bill is to ensure greater payment discipline. However, the solutions for which this objective would be achieved are the public publication of data on debtors with outstanding and outstanding liabilities. The Financial Transactions Act, insolvency proceedings and compulsory termination procedures already adopted in the main part are governed by insolvency and forcible termination proceedings. It lays down the basic and general rules for the financial operations of economic services and other legal persons, in particular in the case of insolvency proceedings, which are further divided either in other rules or in legal financial proceedings. The proposed solution is not adapted to the acquis of the European Union. The Directives do not impose on Member States the adoption of rules allowing for the public disclosure of data on debtors with outstanding and outstanding obligations, which would otherwise be good and possibly even useful. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that business entities can easily, quickly and effectively verify the payment capacity of other business entities within the framework of the currently established services of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Records and Services. Users are allowed to have a free view of the data of the Business Register of Slovenia, published in the registration procedures of the Court Register, published in insolvency proceedings and since 1. Seven. 2010 in transaction account register data. Therefore, in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will not support the bill, because we believe that this type of problem is properly regulated in the current legal order. We believe that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Čepič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u186	Greetings to the Secretary of State! Colleagues and colleagues! The problem of payment non-discipline is undoubtedly an extremely big problem and not only in Slovenia, but everywhere. Anyone who does his or her work properly or supplies the goods also wants to have this work paid within the agreed time limits and in the agreed amount. Here we can agree with the position of the applicants when they say that this is a major problem of the Slovenian economy and probably also of public finances when contributions and levies are not paid to the state budget or public treasury, such as contributions to health insurance or pension allowance. However, we are probably different in terms of how this payment indiscipline should be eliminated or ensured that all of this will be paid exactly on the date and at the agreed price. It has been valid for some time if the state reduces payment deadlines from 60 days to 30 days as one of the important investors and buyers, this problem will be resolved very quickly. Last but not least, we have already mentioned the requirements of Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship, both from the crisis. The general 30-day payment deadline was the first requirement in the fight against payment non-discipline. And, unfortunately, the state has reduced the payment deadlines and made its payments within 30 days, perhaps even earlier when all the relevant documents are attached. We have also reduced the refund of overpaid VAT. But the problem of not paying subcontractors is no less. The crisis is likely to make the situation worse. Various credit ratings have been introduced and are not used by operators when concluding business arrangements for the supply of material or services. All likely to be in the belief that the service will also be properly paid and the business will run out. Today, in the struggle for work, we are actually forgetting and forgetting how to pay. Slovenia's trade has also proposed a number of measures, but they have already been implemented. The new Public Procurement Act defines how subcontractors are insured and the possibility of paying subcontractors past the main contractor. A multi-party netting is carried out, but probably not successful, as not everyone is reporting their claims in this instalment. You could still list it. The proposal put forward by the applicants to ensure payment discipline is to make public all those who have unpaid invoices or open claims to suppliers or countries in the form of taxes and contributions. The craftsmanship and entrepreneurs to which we like to speak do not anticipate this action and have not entered it into their programme. If I simplify a little bit, if this solves the problem of not paying so easily, we would introduce this, not only in Slovenia, but everywhere where there is a payment non-discipline problem. And in these sometimes there is probably no country in Europe and, of course, even broader that it does not have these problems. Payment discipline should probably be addressed more complexly and not only in the individual segment. This is that, without identifying the payee's actual ability to pay and ratings, we are going to stick to some embarrassing pillar that is likely to have some short-term positive effect, but certainly not on the longer term. However, we do not think about the kind of business damage that we may have needlessly brought to the so - called embarrassing pillar. In the Group of Social Democrats, we do not want to defend non-payment between business entities and the country. This needs to be addressed in several ways. Payments made from a national or local account should certainly be monitored, since in such cases there should normally be no liquidity problems, any infringements, and this can be well controlled under the already agreed control mechanisms, there should also be sanctions. In particular, it is necessary to introduce the personal responsibility of those who make decisions which result in a payment of services or goods and who know that they do not have the resources planned and provided. With the current possibilities offered by Apes, even more complex data should be provided as part of the assessment of the credit rating, which will give a clear picture of what business partners we are actually dealing with. Not only does he have the last account paid, but he also has the opportunity to properly carry out his financial obligations in the future. For anyone who enters into a business relationship with another, it is really necessary to know whether he will receive a paid service in the future when he does his job or supplies the material. This is a fundamental question that everyone who enters into a business relationship also asks. The law proposed by the Group of Members and Members does not provide an answer to this fundamental question. Whether a business partner is also long - term solventive and much more difficult to get information about the non-payers today. Therefore, we will not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination for further consideration in the National Assembly. We are not opposed to the bill because it was proposed by the opposition, but because we are convinced that it is not comprehensive for craftsmen and entrepreneurs. And it's about you. He could even be harmful to them. The reputation of the company is being built gradually. But it can only be brought down by one bad move or action. At the same time, I would like to recall the position of the Committee on the Economy, which, in its views on the issue of financial non-discipline, stated that particular attention should also be paid to changing the culture in the area of payment discipline. Therefore, it is necessary to continue to act on raising public awareness of the negative consequences of the problem and probably not with the shameful pillar. And that's actually what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u188	Once again a lovely greeting, respected colleagues and others present! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the non-payment and liquidity situation in Slovenia is, above all, one of the main problems and obstacles to breakthroughing further economic growth in the last year. This is why we have already proposed a number of measures in this area on several occasions. In front of us is one of those who would be a step towards better financial discipline. The public publication of the list of unpaid debtors would certainly help to make business operators more cautious on the one hand and to prevent business with those who are at risk in their business. In particular, it would also help to reduce these deadlines, including by keeping those deadlines, the country which has recently laid down certain payment deadlines. The State does not hold on to the deadlines set by law. A number of cases have been publicly exposed in recent times when the state has also shown that it is a poor mercenary or that it does not pay things within the time limits set out in the law. One such case was recently revealed in the area from which I come. As a result, this case means that this entrepreneur is likely to close his business, although he is well qualified for the work he is doing because one of the ministries owes him – you will not believe – $60,000. A relatively small amount for the country, and for this entrepreneur it is likely to prevent him from doing business and doing business. I have cited this case as just one of the screaming cases that say that the situation in this area is not good. The data we heard today tells us that it is getting worse, that it is significantly worse this year than it was last year. Almost 6 thousand business entities according to the statistics of Apes had outstanding obligations in September. That's a scary number. Taking into account the amount of these liabilities, which ranges to some ten million euros, the liquidity problem is a key problem that needs to be addressed in this country if we are to ensure normal business in the future. We do not claim in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that it is only through this measure that this anomaly can be prevented. However, we argue that this is one of the measures that cost virtually nothing and that, in the light of all the other measures that should have been taken, some of which we have already proposed in the past, can finally lead Slovenia on the road to ending this cancer wound that we have witnessed not only in the last mandate but in the last 15 years, if not even 20 years. In the last period, we have also heard from the media about cases that are documented and that some companies have different discharges than all others. In the Group, we ask ourselves how it is possible that a company does not pay contributions to employees, does not pay its subcontractors, has millions of debts, but without hindrance receives state-owned transactions. Moreover, the director of this company is the best-paid manager in this country last year. In an activity that is in the biggest crisis according to statistics, the first director had almost EUR 800,000 per annum, or almost EUR 2 000 200 per day. Two thousand 200 euros a day, weeks, holidays and Saturdays included! At the same time, this country is looking for ways to freeze pensions worth 300 to 500 euros a month. Instead of looking for ways to force such a company, which, on the one hand, obviously has a very large hearing for those who are best paid, because in this company this is not the only example of high payouts, but it is quite a whole series of people who have been paid enormously to ensure that they pay their contributions and obligations to their subcontractors, for whom we read that their debts reach millions of euros. One of the steps on this path would certainly be to publish a list of these companies. The steps to be followed, however, are certainly to prevent such a company from operating for the country, to tighten the sanctions that we have in the legislation in force and which speak of the fact that in such a case the persons responsible may also be criminally responsible. In short, implement existing legislation. There is no more, but the Pahor's Government, including ministers, is moving around and saying, "We generally support this solution of yours, but the path is not right, nothing will help and so on." I think it's irresponsible behavior, and it's a time-consuming time when the inflows into the state cash register fall rapidly as the expenditure increases. This year, when the state budget is being implemented at the end of the year, we will record even worse indicators than we did last year, as the first half of the year was less than the first half of last year and more than 200 million euros in expenditure. And all of this, this expansion, the increasing payment non-discipline, and the increasing number of businesses that have difficulties in doing business are not to blame for this, the many bankruptcys that are promised to us in the future, and the many job losses speak of the extreme time for the Pahorje government to start leading a different policy and to come to the National Assembly with laws that will prevent these anomalies. But if that is not possible, then it would be right to at least support the opposition's intentions in this direction. One of these intentions, which does not cost the country absolutely nothing, but means that some way of eliminating payment non-discipline is this law that we have on the table today. I think we should support him. And we will, of course, support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u189	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Likar made a statement as a proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Maybe some additions I couldn't say in the introduction. I think we're all alone in something. First, that the problem of payment non-discipline is really hot and already almost alarming, and secondly, if we wait for the integrity of government regulation, then we will wait a while longer but without any sarcasm or anything. I think we all agree. This proposal for a law tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party constitutes a step towards ensuring regular payment within the deadlines. This may be an indirect result. The purpose of this law is to allow business partners to enter into business or to decide to enter into business in a simple and transparent manner, which would not be expensive, to verify the nature of this business partner. I think it's the least or the first information he wants to get is whether he's a partner with whom he intends to make a deal as much as a regular mercenary. I believe that every once in a while something breaks and doesn't pay in time, one day, two, even one week. Maybe it doesn't mean anything. However, if these delays are, I don't know, 60 days, 120 days, or if they happen to have irrecoverable claims, then he won't have a deal with such a partner. There's going to be a much smaller possibility of getting into trouble at the expense of default. It is now possible to comment on the Government's position that the solutions proposed in this bill are not subject to the Financial Business Act and insolvency and forced termination procedures. I don't know, I think it was a law by 2007, especially the Financial Business Act, especially the law that regulated the property of bankruptcy, liquidation and forcible settlement. And then, I think in 2007, this stuff came together in one marriage. Here I watched the law, namely the Law on Financial Business and so on. Article 11 defines short-term and long-term payment capacity. Article 14 speaks of when the debtor is insolvent. It states that "unless proven otherwise, it is considered that the debtor, who is a legal person, an entrepreneur or a private person, is more ineligible if for more than 2 months it is late to fulfil one or more obligations in a total amount exceeding 20 % of the amount of its liability shown in the annual report for the last financial year prior to the maturity of those liabilities". The legal obligation to provide data on the total amount of adults, outstanding obligations and on the average number of days overdue under this Title would give us a simple and transparent system in this proposed law over the payment capacity of legal persons, both legal persons and independent entrepreneurs. This would essentially give the country an overview of the actual extent of payment non-discipline, because I don't think it even has that data now. Debtors with unpaid dues would be more motivated in this way, as I said, to settle their obligations, as this will also improve their market ratings. Now I don't know, you just said in your explanation that this isn't the substance of this marriage. You may also be able to do so, or you may suggest a solution. But it would probably belong to this stuff somewhere. Further, or in these explanations which I have read, you also refer to the fact that the reporting system is regulated by Article 219 of the Law on Payment Services and Systems, which contains those records which contain outstanding obligations, but only on the basis of the enforcement decisions and on the basis of the tax debt, but not the mature and outstanding obligations under the terms of the contractual relationship, as you have rightly determined in this regard. It is also written here in small print that this was in some other times, in previous times, only one payment institution, which was last called the Payment Transport Agency, which also monitored the settlement of liabilities when managing payment transactions. And at the time of this institution’s withdrawal, it was announced with a large pump that payment transactions must be received by banking institutions which would be cheaper due to competition. Without any nostalgia after that, no one thought that these functions performed by this paying institution would be adequately compensated or upgraded. I couldn't understand when the information came to the public, and I think it was first Glacier Nova, then Viator&Vektor, and then the other SCT didn't pay any contributions. I was in the old days at work at this agency, and I'm well aware of how this thing was going on, and I was surprised it was even possible. I also expected that now that the bank's payment transactions are under way, these so-called REK forms of payment order to the bank, REK forms to Durs. Durs, of course, has a record of when a particular legal person has paid. I do not understand why these contributions cannot be erased and why this problem is occurring to this extent. Okay, that could be chapter two. Furthermore, you state in your explanation that the proposed solutions are not balanced in terms of the disclosure of the financial situation of the individual public company. With the legal obligation to provide data on the total amount of outstanding obligations reached and the average number of days overdue under this heading, I do not think they disclose any financial position of the debtor, as you are also stating below. In fact, in paragraph 3, you say that the amount of outstanding liabilities of an economic or business entity does not yet disclose the financial position or is not yet an indicator of its short-term liquidity or long-term solvency of payment capacity. I don't know if this affects the disclosure of the financial situation or not. I think that I am the data on the amount of outstanding liabilities, that is the total amount, because of me it does not have to be separate for taxes or contributions, although this might be appropriate. I myself believe that this information and data on the average number of days of delay do not reveal any financial position of the debtor, especially in terms of something contrary to legislation. In doing so, we want only to ensure that legal persons and independent entrepreneurs can, as I said earlier, be able to verify that the potential debtor has settled its legal and contractual obligations in a timely manner. This would only, not prevent, but significantly reduce the risk of non-payment of legal and contractual obligations. You say, too, that is why the proposal for a law does not systematically provide for a new infringement, namely a waiver or a misappropriation of default as a basis for compensation in relation to creditors. I think that the suspension of this bill, the suspension of self-declaration has some causal link to the damage caused by creditors who in bankruptcy would not have achieved the full payment of their claim, because, say, company x, if they went bankrupt, the debtor, according to the domestic word, could be wiped out under the nose for his claim. If, however, he had the opportunity to check whether he was a business partner before he entered into business with him, let's say how much a regular wager would be his obligations, and if that were not the case, then perhaps he would not have made a deal with him. This would also prevent damage caused by possible non-payment. You further say, in the current crisis situation, the majority of Slovenian business operators are at least partially behind schedules of payments, and Apes should establish and maintain a comprehensive information system to identify data on non-payments and so on. I believe that this review, which would contain only data on legal persons and on the total amount of outstanding obligations, plus the number of days, the average number of days behind, would not cause so much higher costs and thus no higher public expenditure. I think it's just that those who deal with information technology know, I don't know how to explain it, but if they were sending that data to Ipes, I don't think that would be such a problem. Okay, maybe, but I don't think it would, but in our opinion, if there were already costs, there would be greater benefits. It was also stated here that this has now been regulated in the APIS, that it is possible to quickly and effectively verify the business performance of the business partner. It's partly true, but I don't know exactly what these forms look like. I used to know that very well. The information you get now is mostly historical. The data are based on the annual reports. For example, if I demand some data today, these data refer to the 2009 annual report. However, in terms of liquidity, the Ypes of these payment institutions are, of course, sending data on outstanding liabilities, and these, as it were said, are based solely on judicial executions and on tax debt. I think that a lot of outstanding obligations stem from contractual relations and, of course, information about them cannot be obtained in an existing way. I'll call back later if there's any discussion. The draft law also sets out the liability of members of the management of private and public companies who would not provide the required data or provide incomplete or incomplete data. In such a way that I think that the officials of these public authorities and local communities and members of the management boards of public companies who would not provide data under this law are also subject to fines and a call for discharge if the infringement were repeated. I think that this provision is appropriate, because otherwise we know if it is without sanctions or anything like that, we know where we came up with it. This is also reflected in the settlement of these obligations. Certain sanctions are necessary. However, as for supervision, as you also state in your explanation, that one job should be introduced, an inspection that would control it, of course it would probably be necessary, but I think that this is already a matter of further procedure and a matter for the Government to do so. So much for once, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u191	Györek, Franz, it's not. Mr. Crossbow, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u192	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Your Honor! The majority of companies aim for good results, good balance sheets and, at the end of their profits, with this good image of the company itself. Payment non-discipline in Slovenia is problematic, but we have to ask ourselves why such a situation has occurred. A few years ago, most bankers said that a bank that doesn't grow 30% a year is a bad bank. I think that says a lot. Thus, the Bank's priorities, which financed projects that did not bring some higher added value or did not bring it at all, were not properly targeted. It is said that there was a lack of support here, including by banks, for the development itself of companies that create and have good programmes and also a secure market. These companies are said to have been given insufficient attention. Now these companies have to pay the raw materials by budget, by majority. Thus, on the world market, these stocks have somehow decreased, and if a company wants to receive material in a timely manner today, most of it has to be paid according to the budget. Then it follows the production process itself, which also lasts from a few days to what month, then this company issues an invoice with a currency of 30 to 120 days. In fact, this company has to finance production for up to 6 months. I think that this is a major problem for these companies and that is why these obligations are not being paid to the State and suppliers. What can you do to make this better? I think a lot of things could be solved here in such a way that we can improve this banking support. It is said that these companies would have a better service so that they could access these liquidity assets more quickly, because this is precisely why they have problems with the cash flow itself. I am convinced that 90% of these problems would be solved if banks played a role that has not yet been played today. The financing of new technologies from the current business is also an additional problem. All I mentioned earlier was the financing of these raw materials. Today, too, the problem is that the vast majority of companies with good programmes have a real market to finance new technologies from the current business. This is a major obstacle and also hinders the development of Slovenia. That is why we are progressing so slowly on the GDP scale. We could have created much more here if these companies could receive these funds faster and generate higher revenues as a result, and consequently reduce this non-discipline of payments. It is therefore necessary to raise the common culture, business in general, from the country itself, banks, businesses and, lastly, the consumer itself, in order to witness less bankruptcy, less business problems and more successful companies that will generate high added value in the future. This means that if this banking system were to function significantly better than it does today, there would certainly not be a lot of these problems. However, I am convinced that this proposal is not the solution to full payment non-discipline and will partly help the situation in the field itself. We support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Rezman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In a few sentences, I will try to illustrate my assessment that the proposed solution is not, not the best and not a good solution. Black leaves that are supposed to be made up mean nothing but repeating the same thing. Who today can't tell the biggest debtors who don't pay? And what would we do if we kept saying that, and we didn't eliminate the reasons for not perpetuating this payment discipline, we didn't do it on our own. It is enough to look at the front of the media, to listen to the terms that are most listened to, and we will see that the non-payers continue to appear in these terms on these pages and that this does not depend on the fact that the payment non-discipline chains may be reduced. When we talk to people who have a lot to do with this, it is increasingly my impression that they understand this payment non-discipline as a modern plague for which there is no real solution, even to us. Now, some people are offering us a pill that says "blasphemy." I am sure that we will not achieve great things with blasphemy, nor will we do so because many will receive it unjustly. Many who will be on such lists, even though they have not contributed to it alone, and even though they only pay the bill because large ones play cards on their account with their tokens. Therefore, I think it would be pointless for us to do this to many economic operators who are struggling to get out of the crisis, an additional injustice when they are nailed to this cross and thus expose them to shame, as it is said, through domestic bliss. Most of those small ones who were affected by this did not contribute to this; they simply could not avoid it. And it bears the burden of large ones, for which many small ones even rent loans. And they're not paying them back, of course, because they can't pay back in this non-payment chain. And those who today refer, as recorded in the paper, to the fact that the economy claims these lists did not specify where they are in those publications published by employers' associations or by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia or by the Chamber of Commerce. For example, in the last three years -- I've been monitoring it a little bit -- it doesn't say. They're looking for solutions somewhere else. They seek solutions in order not only to cut down on marriage but also to enforce these shorter arms. And these economists don't write anything about the main non-payment generator being the state. Even some, more up-to-date data show exactly which part of the country pays more or less on a regular basis and what is behind the individual ministries or individual bodies in the payment of accounts. Therefore, it is not possible to find these arguments because they are required for those in the economy to whom they refer, because they want a much more multi-lateral compensation, which is automatic and which they estimate to be successful. And because they also require in particular a small economy to be such that public tenders are accessible directly to small ones and not only through a chain of large ones that then stop the payment chain. And what they still want is to be more effective, so to speak, preventive in order to prevent the emergence of payment non-discipline by means of more effective insurance and enforcement instruments. In doing so, some set an example for even neighbouring Croatia. Therefore, I cannot support this proposal, which speaks of a black leaf, of gawgs, because I do not think that the economy deserves this embarrassment. Because I think that with shame we will not contribute anything to reviving the economic growth and increasing the jobs that we so much need, but other measures need to be found, which unfortunately we must find that the country has not yet found the best and the shortest ways to capture.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr. Scrooge, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am trying to respond to certain contradictory arguments that have been put forward in the debate. As far as payment non-discipline is concerned, it is no secret that the Government has repeatedly made public that this is one of the important concerns that the Government is working to resolve. The government has therefore also taken a number of measures to highlight those that we have been preparing at the Ministry, whose work I know best, is at the Ministry of Justice. The culture of business, as one of the previous speakers put it, is, of course, one of the key elements of how to achieve better payment discipline. Payment discipline is due to many factors and situations in which economic operators operate and sometimes cannot even influence themselves, but many can. And these elements and these influences are different at a time of crisis than at a time of prosperity. For this reason, at the Justice Ministry, we have also prepared a set of guidelines for legal entities as well as other entities on how to enter into business relations, particularly in times of crisis, on what to pay attention, which provisions in mutual relations can be clearly defined. How to act when things get complicated may also be vital. Indeed, all payment discipline is not merely a result of a person’s refusal to pay, it is often a misunderstanding between what is debt and what is the claim, what is the amount of the right amount of the claim and what is the right amount of the debt. This has to do with the settlement of the dispute. We have also prepared a declaration where entities have committed themselves to alternative dispute resolution, which is faster, more efficient, especially more user-friendly and even faster than the courts. This declaration was joined by a number of entities, many municipalities and also the Chamber of Commerce. Of course, we are also trying to create conditions for better business and to address the reasons that lead to payment non-discipline. One of the more important laws in this connection is the law on enforcement and insurance, which is the law that sets out the procedure and prescribes how a creditor recovers what someone owes him. And in the matter of payment discipline, it is precisely that someone has a claim and the debtor does not pay that claim on time or within the time limit set for payment. This law introduced a whole series of improvements as the enforcement procedure progresses faster. One of the main features is that it is now possible to pay those claims that originate from the legal enforcement addresses even before the power of the decision to authorise enforcement. Of course, in preparing or eliminating the causes of non-discipline of payments, special attention was paid to this law, which is now back on your benches, the Financial Business Act, the Forced Cessation and Business Procedures. This law has been amended in a little over a year three times. Twice explicitly and exclusively due to responses to the current crisis situation. Novela B was the result of the finding that it is not sufficiently well taken care of when companies prolong their business, although they do not pay workers. The result of such a business was the long-standing agony of companies when workers went to work, did good work, and did not receive payment for it. It is now assumed that if such payments are not available within three months or if there are no such payments for three months, this is an irrefutable assumption of insolvency, which means a condition for the initiation of insolvency proceedings. The following novels were prepared in the light of the prevention of payment non-discipline. To this end, a very broad interdepartmental working group has been formed, which has shaken many different ideas. Among them there was no idea of a black leaf or a disgraceful list of those who did not pay regularly. This idea came today. Today we are discussing this idea. And when we analyze this idea, we are trying to analyze what such a solution would bring and what it would do to help, and what is being pursued with the purpose of today's condition is actually already included in the legislation. When we examine what such disclosure would bring, we somehow do not see what the added value is, except that the economic operators, who often find themselves in a mysterious situation without their guilt, in the short term, make this mysterious situation worse by making them public as some violators, the worse violators, to make it public and accessible to everyone on the shameful pillar, as we have heard today. Of course, the threat of repression seems effective in times of crisis, but experience from history shows that this is not usually the case. In this case, too, we are convinced that this threat would not produce the desired result. In fact, the fact that someone does not pay an account does not say anything about why it happened, nor does it say anything about whether the cause is deeper, and even more important, whether in the future it will be as undisciplined as it is if we can use such a label at this point. Just summarising the fact that someone is not a mercenary and citing the number of days of late payment does not give a real picture that would allow other economic operators a sober and serious assessment of whether these entities are worthy of any business confidence. This may be a response or result from some current situation. I am saying these things because today there are instruments that provide the same data in terms of content, which follow the same purpose, but are much more reliable. Data on ratings, credit rating is a category based on empirical data based on an internationally recognised methodology based on the rules of the profession. Indeed, this methodology is drawing from historical data, but it does a projection for the future and verification of these estimates shows that in the 1970s when companies were assessed as a speculative risk, which means that when they received a poor rating, 70% of such companies showed that they were actually confused about blocking the account. This means that we have an instrument that enables a reliable assessment of the risk of an individual economic operator. That's not the only grade. A register of so-called current days of blockade is also maintained on Ipes. It collects data on the last six months, on the number of days when a particular entity had its transaction account blocked. Credit information is a category that provides more data, even more data for legal entities and is even more reliable in terms of projection and forecast of reliability and business reliability, if I may use this term, legal entities. All of this, combined with a register of current or transaction accounts, where they are recorded with a special label in cases where an economic operator is no longer able to pay those claims recognised in the enforcement procedure, gives sufficient basis for assessing any serious economic operator for risk assessment when we are going into a business relationship. The key point is that a list of those who have failed to pay their obligations for such or other reasons – but we do not analyse the reasons for this, nor do we assess their projections for the future – will help market operators to improve the quality of their risk assessment. Why have I specifically mentioned cases where those companies are registered which cannot be settled by the enforcement of recognised persons? It is important that any unpaid account does not yet mean that it has been duly issued that the amount in the account is adequate. If the company does not pay the bill, it does not mean that it is insolvent. The enforcement process is now a case of authentic documents, which in other words means very fast for ordinary people's accounts that are issued. Within a few days, the entity issuing the invoice, if the account is not paid, shall ensure that the court allows it to be executed. And then this claim becomes legal. And when this claim is legally binding, then it can be justified to talk about the entity’s debt. As long as it is not legally binding, it is merely assumed that this amount, which is stated in an account, is indeed the same as it is stated and that it is not actually paid because the entity does not operate solidly, in this case the debtor. Somehow, when I heard the debates, it seemed to me that our country did not have a mechanism to sanction those who did not do what was right and hide their business results. I find that hard to agree with. Therefore, I also believe that there is no need for a new type of responsibility for those who do not report themselves as violators. If a legal entity or a responsible person conceals its information in its business, conceals or otherwise makes a mistake in thinking that its situation is different and that the latter is harmed as a result, it is a crime of fraud. I know it may seem from this speaker's desk to talk about the fact that criminal responsibility is the one that governs this area a little bit of a long shot. However, experience shows that in the late 90s, when similar payment disciplines deteriorated considerably in those newly established companies, especially entrepreneurs, criminal repression has nevertheless achieved that the entities have realized that such behaviour is not unpunished. Of course, a criminal asset is an extreme asset. But I'm mentioning it because it doesn't stay in the air like there's no such asset. That's the kind of asset that already exists today. If I finish. The bill before us today is trying to solve the problem of payment non-discipline in such a way as to teach the consequences of this non-discipline. It does nothing in the area of eliminating the causes of payment non-discipline. However, instruments available today that are accessible and accessible to legal entities or to all market players allow legal entities to make a risk assessment, to determine for themselves how reliable the entity they engage in business relations is, and what is the risk that they will not receive payments for their claim. In this case, they may react appropriately with the various insurance instruments available. We think this path is more appropriate. The bond ratio is a typical civil law relationship. This relationship is based on volunteerism and interference with State repression in this area of volunteering must be limited. In this case, we are confident that the need for this is not that the benefits of this except perhaps some effect that we can excite by means of which means that they show that we are doing something will not be achieved. The situation for the economy will therefore not be better. Not even for those who deal with entities that turn out to be non-solid, but even less for those who have received an insolvent label, perhaps unjustifiably. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u197	Mr. Tiny. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Tanko. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Zerjav. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Vizjak. [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Chappich. You're up to speed. You're giving up? Mr. Scrooge. You've told us everything. Mr. Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u198	Thank you very much. It's an extraordinary profession. Now, if everything were as true as Mr Skrlec said it would probably not be such a problem. First time. With this proposal of the law, no one thought it would look like a disgraceful pillar or a pranger, so I don't know if there was a black list in the paper, at least we didn't imagine opening the website and putting all the non-payers there, but it would be individual. Another time. Of course, by providing data on non-payment of liabilities, we would not give data as soon as the account is due, but of course we know when the account will fall. When the buyer takes over, both the buyer and the seller are settled. Thus, both agree that the claim and the obligation exist and then the obligation to pay arises. If the case concerning the eligibility of payment or non-payment is not clarified, of course I would not give this information to Ipes, it is not a matter of concern. Nor do we suggest in the proposal that this would solve the problem of payment non-discipline, but this would mean, as I mentioned earlier, an indirect impact on the regular payment of its obligations. But we are certainly not so sovereign as to say, but with this law, payment indiscipline will be resolved, not at all. I forgot to say that before. It was also obvious that similar solutions, which are found in our proposal for a law, cannot be found in other legal systems and cannot be found in the adaptation of the regulation of European Union law. Of course, one wonders here, but with us this problem is detected, it's probably somewhere else, I don't know the situation, it's a bit milder. In Austria — just recently, I was watching on TV — they do not think of stepping up like this with us. However, one entrepreneur from Austria said that it is very difficult to deal with companies from Slovenia precisely because of this lack of seriousness in payment. Even as far as this business culture is concerned, business morals, sometimes when they were doing business, but that was a long time ago, they just hit hands and then the word was more valid than today's ten contracts. Of course, that's not happening today. If things changed over time, it would be quite a success. And it's likely that the judiciary has its share here. You mentioned earlier the law, the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance. That's what I've been watching on TV, too. It's an example when the client, I think he laid tiles in his bathroom, didn't pay for the service, because she wasn't a shell of that shade, she was snow whiter than the tiles on the wall. They probably didn't agree on this before. Well, he didn't pay him a favor. He complained, filed a lawsuit against the court, and the case is pending. Complaints one, complains the other and claims or obligations remain outstanding. And I'm not gonna say it's the court's fault. What I'm saying is that the case is not so easy to solve through a court of law, at least not from practice. Of course, I have no imagination, even if this bill was adopted in the first reading to resolve the matter, as I have already said. However, how is this non-discipline of payments really hot to mention this famous sports park of Stožice, where the media also called for how the contracting entity, the subcontractor at the principal contracting authority could not recover its debt and the case ended tragically. Also, debtors or subcontractors at Stožice Park should not say who is responsible for settling their obligations. I'm guessing it's some kind of coerced, some kind of criminal liability, if they're going to spend that information any further. For example, if he owes me – I mean now – SCT, I can't say at all. But it is no wonder that in this regard, in such cases, it is probably not lonely for citizens to wonder where the rule of law is, that this is even possible in these times. And at the end of the day, I won't hold you because you're impatient. I don't think it's as important a path as the important goal that we set for one thing, and that's to improve payment discipline. If you don't think this is the right way, then you won't support it. If you think this is the right way to achieve this goal, then we will support the law in the first reading and may also complete it further. I think it was a wish, I don't think, I'm sure that the Slovenian Democratic Party's desire to be willing, on the initiative of many when we walked on the ground, was one of the main issues, not the perceptions, but the problems that economic operators have highlighted indiscipline. Some have very solid options, great potentials, but as they say, "what if I don't get paid and I don't have any instrument" or are limited to recovering this claim. Just a few more words about Ipes. Apes does their tasks properly and well. But for the first time, this has to be paid, and I think it's pretty expensive. I don't know the exact amount. For example, one such simple test for this solution, which we propose in marriage, was also welcome. And one more thing. Everything you've been saying here, data based on the annual reports and so on, that's true, even ratings, is a late payment. This is probably the same, but, as I said earlier, in these delays or in these data on non-payments, there are no contractual obligations. However, I think that the lion's share of outstanding obligations comes from contractual relations, probably more and more from taxes and social security contributions, and probably also from court executions who decide to do so. I invite you to support this law in your first reading. We will further finalize the procedure, perhaps with some useful proposals from the Government and other Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u199	Thank you. We're done with the debate, and all the debaters you wanted and were on the list, you got your word. However, since the time for discussion has not yet passed, I ask: Does anyone else wish to discuss the matter under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah, I see your hands. I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Mr. Skrlec, you can also sign up with a raise. All right, we'll put you in. Mr. Rezman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u200	Thank you very much. I apply for the word because it was problematic whether this syntagma, the blacklist, should be used at all, that it might not be in the material that was submitted for consideration. Since I have used this concept of a blacklist myself, I must now read one part of this material presented and prepared by the applicant and in which it says on the third page that, at a meeting of the Committee on the Economy that has been running before, representatives of chambers in the field of economics, crafts, entrepreneurship and trade have made many proposals to improve the situation in the area of payment discipline. One of the proposals was to make public the list of debtors on the websites of the Apes, the so-called blacklist. During that period, I led this Economic Committee, and I know, I have in mind, I did not go into the magnetogram now, that the representatives of the economy – I mentioned this earlier – did not make these proposals. These were such proposals, but in my memory they were among those who are today proposing the law that we are talking about today. And that's not the right argument to blame the economy so-called economy for claiming to stick to the guavas. So the economy was clearly confronted with such proposals, and it was also clear that if something like this had actually happened to it, it would have hurt it. This does not solve payment indiscipline, but weakens their reputation, weakens the credibility of many, including injustice. Why would some be blameless, appear without guilt on the blacklist? First of all, for a simple reason because for the first time, they were not themselves guilty because someone else forced them into such a situation and they have no power to get rid of this situation even if they try. Another time. Due to the fact that it may also be the best company in a short period of time in solvency problems. This can also happen, and now you just put him on the cross because he missed two, three, five days with some payment, it makes no sense, and the economy resisted. Third time. Even if someone at some point is unable to pay an account, and in the long run is a regular and a good payer, it is not the only criterion. You read those lists, the lists of hundreds that are always published, and you will see what they read in the columns and how we judge whether companies are good, per cent of the capital, per percent of the funds, at the profit rate and so on and so on. These are the main criteria so that, in the long or medium term, we can most often assess in the short term whether the company is economically viable or is such that we should be more careful when doing business with it. And for this greater care, we have sufficient resources at our disposal today. Once again, I would like to stress that the possible vote on black leaves would be bad, the worst for the economy. This would not raise our economic potential, our economic growth and possible employment, greater liquidity and so on. I think that such a proposal is being made in a poor economy, although it is presented as a proposal to support the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u201	Thank you. Mr. Magaina.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u202	Good-bye! How to assess the proposal by the proposer? The objectives are particularly positive because this topic has been on the wallpaper for 20 years since we made the transition to pluralism, including economic pluralism. I remember myself in 1991. At that time, not only parties and unions were established, but also companies. There were many of them, and soon there were these problems, which we today call payment non-discipline. And interesting after all this time, I remember right because we talked about how sometimes a person remembers things forty years ago, but I remember twenty. How are we going to help these entities that fail not by their own fault, but by the fault of someone we don't know? And here's the problem with guilt. This list is controversial because it's not clean. The black leaf itself cannot be pure but beautiful because the name already says it, but pure in the sense that it removes all those who are just some member in the chain. If it were a list of those entities that are actors, perhaps very few, some of the biggest actors that are behind them. These are, by definition, those who do business positively, who have wonderful profits, where management receives incredible astronomical profits, and below them have fifty-hundred thousand outstanding accounts. And I'd put one of those on some list somewhere else. And of course this is again difficult to do, to find a way to clear this blacklist and to really give those who are guilty, because they would innocently hang on the list of someone who is, as I said, just an article in some chain of taxpayers or at some point has liquidity problems. That is why I am joining my colleague, William Rezman, who has pointed out these things, as well as the issue of these lists, as well as the shortening of deadlines. The country is now a new one, and after these novelties, more binding payer problems are always recoverys. I also remember some good times when we had acceptable assignments, when it was possible to cash out that acceptance and you got yours. Then, amazingly, it stopped again, and other instruments came in, and they were worse. Let's face it, and I don't know if it was just a technical matter, but here it might have been political to create a space that favored large economic operators and left those smaller ones to be in this chain and this chaos of financial and payment chaos. So I regret to say that there was too little political will here or that this political will went in the opposite direction, in the interest of some of those key entities, which probably also had political connections, that they could create such arrangements so that they did not have to settle the accounts. How's it going? We have already heard the third amendment of the Law on Financial Operating Procedures for Insolvency and Forced Cessation. These novels were very positive, they did something, but they didn't finish. Let it not be awkward for the Government to listen to the terrain, and listen to the proposaler, who says that things are still not working. Another novelty may be needed this year or at least another year, or as soon as possible, if problems arise. If there are paths, let's support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-21-SDZ5-Redna-21.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr Škrlec sees no need for further explanation, so I am concluding the debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday, 26. 10th, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 10 a.m. tomorrow. Have a nice day!
