ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 18th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Member and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Dara Lavtišar Bebler, Melita Župevc, mag. Vasja Klavora, Miro Friday, mag. Franc Žnidaršič, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, mag. Branko Grimes, mag. Anton Rop, Guido Kres, Franz Bogovich, Aloise Potočnik, Miran Jerič, Janez Janša and Mirko Brulc until 12 noon. I welcome everyone. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on Holidays and the Work of the Day in the Republic of Slovenia, the summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 29 Members and Members, with Mr Sam Bevk, first-signed. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Mr Sam Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Last July, the Group of 29 Members of the Social Democrats, Zares, DeSUS and LDS introduced in the parliamentary procedure a new law on holidays and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia proposing a new State holiday, which is 8 June, the Day of Primož Trubar, which will not be working on a day off. We have already proposed a law with the same content in 2008, i.e. in the jubilee year of Trubar, when it received the principled support of parliamentary parties, but unfortunately, due to the upcoming national elections, it did not come to the hearing. At that time, we committed ourselves to re-supply the proposal in the new mandate. Primož Trubar is the founder of Slovenian literary language and the first Slovenian writer and central figure of Slovenian Protestantism. Two years ago, we celebrated the 500th anniversary of his birth. The country has declared the year of Trubar in 2008, so we are building on this glorious semi-thousand-year anniversary by recognizing its historical role and significance and the memory of Primož Trubar as a permanent celebration of the state. The proposal for the celebration and marking of the name Primož Trubar has already been submitted to the Slovenian centre of Pen in February 2008 by author Boris Pahor, the recipient of numerous international awards, including legions of honour for the highest honour of the Republic of France. In his initiative, author Pahor wrote that it was outrageous that the father of the first Slovenian book was not appointed to the list of Slovenian holidays. The president of the Slovenian centre Pen Tone Peršak was briefed on the initiative of author Pahor in June 2008. In his letter, he wrote that the board of directors felt that it would certainly be right that Primož Trubar, as the most important name in Slovenian cultural and national history, would also get his place at France Prešern in the calendar of Slovenian national holidays. In this initiative, Boris Pahor also indicated the possibility of supplementing the day of the reform with Trubar's name. After discussions with the representatives of the Protestant church and individuals and representatives of the societies that preserve the memory of Primož Trubar, we have concluded that the addition would be unworthy both of the reform day and of Primož Trubar. While the day of reform as a holiday, which is inseparably linked to the width of the Protestant movement, cannot be reduced to the image of Primož Trubar, nor can it be limited to its contribution to the development of Protestantism. We also rely on the member of the Slovenian Protestant society Primož Trubar ob Trubarje 500th anniversary, of which they wrote: "Primž Trubar is the central personality of Slovenian Protestantism in the 16th century and at the same time the most important personality in the development of the foundations for the formation of the Slovenian nation. With the writings of Primož Trubar, Slovenia's literary language begins with historical reporting in Slovenian, theological and philosophical discussion and explanation in Slovenian, and the compilation of legal texts in Slovenian. The public use of the name Slovenians begins with Trubar and the declaration of the uniformity of members of Slovenia, irrespective of the country's distinct borders." We have decided to propose 8 June as the holiday date, which appears most often in professional literature as the supposed birthday of Primož Trubar. The following day is also the god of St. Primož. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u4	Hello! Hello, Madam Secretary of State, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! At its 17th session, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Holidays and Work of Days in the Republic of Slovenia. A group of Members, with the first-signed Sam Bevko, submitted to the National Assembly for consideration with a proposal for the consideration and adoption of the draft law following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. Representatives of the proposer, first signed by Samo Bevk, representative of the Government, State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and State Secretary of the Ministry of Culture, as well as representative of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion from the Government and an opinion from the Council of State. They all supported the bill. No amendments were tabled to the bill. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law and has pointed out some necessary corrections, which it will take into account when preparing the text of the publication law in the Official Journal and will also make editorial corrections. In its opinion, the Government has in principle supported the adoption of the bill, but insists on a clearer definition of the relationship between the Reformation Day and the Day of Primož Trubar, a consistent classification of both in the long term systemisation of state celebrations and the presentation of all possible and possible financial consequences. In its opinion, the Council of State stressed that the holidays reflect a consensus on the meaning of individual historical dates and are an expression of national competitiveness and awareness of the necessity to maintain the historical importance of the most important events. By establishing or declaring 8 June for the day of Primož Trubar, we would show recognition to Primož Trubar, whose work created the basis for the development of the Slovenian people. The representative of the proposer provided an additional explanation for the bill, stressing that they wanted to achieve, by means of the proposed amendment of the law, that the day of Primož Trubar should also be included among the holidays. In doing so, he highlighted the initiative of Slovenian writer Boris Pahor to include the name Primož Trubar, author of the first book in the Slovenian language and initiator of the formation of awareness of the unity of Slovenian cultural, linguistic and, consequently, political space. The applicant indicated two options: to complete the reform day with Trubar's name or to set an alleged date of birth in June 1508, that is to say June 8th, as the Memorial Day of Primož Trubar, who is not necessarily working a day off. The proposers of the bill have chosen a second option. The debate highlighted the importance of Primož Trubar, who is not only the author of the first Slovenian book, but also an instigator of the formation of awareness of the unity of Slovenian cultural, linguistic and political space. Regardless of its importance and the importance of its work, some discussers felt that we already had so many holidays in Slovenia and that we are joining countries with the largest number of holidays in Europe. The most important argument against another holiday was the belief that the day of reform as part of the day already includes the meaning and work of Primož Trubar and is as it is in the nation's consciousness. The view was also expressed that the greater number of holidays reduces their importance and therefore there is no need for duplication. As an argument against the principled opposition of the Government, which specifically pointed out the financial consequences and the long-term systematisation of national celebrations and the question of the status of this holiday as a celebration with a national ceremony or only with school and cultural events. Proponents of the bill stressed the importance of Primož Trubar, who laid the foundation for the Slovenian literature and is worthy of our national self-confidence. They considered that this proposal was another possibility of positive identification with a person who was particularly responsible for Slovenia. The representative stressed that he also consulted representatives of the Evangelical Church and Primož Trubar, who supported their decision or proposal, on the appropriateness of the solution. As amendments, the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and the Disability of the National Assembly have not been adopted to the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on Holidays and Works of Days in the Republic of Slovenia following a reduced procedure, have not been adopted in the present text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak, State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs for the introduction of the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Holidays and Work of the Days in the Republic of Slovenia, which proposes to further designate Trubar as a holiday in the Republic of Slovenia on 8 June, the Day of Primož Trubar. The introduction of this law would strengthen the awareness of the importance of Primož Trubar not only as a Protestant reformer, founder and first superintendent of the Protestant church in Slovenia, but also as the founder of the Slovenian book language, which, with its outstanding and diversified operation, marked its time and created an eternal foundation for Slovenian national self-confidence and self-confidence. In the field of labour law, the Act on holidays of work and work is of substantive importance mainly in terms of determining the effective labour obligations of workers, which consequently also affects the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Given that the proposed amendment or amendment will not increase the number of working days. In principle, the government does not oppose the adoption of the proposed solution in law. Also in view of the importance of marking the proposed holiday for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government does not oppose the proclamation of the State holiday in memory of such an important founder of the Slovenian written word, but points out that it will insist that there will be no duplication between the day of Primož Trubar and the day of the Reformation and that Prešeren Day will continue to be the central national cultural holiday. With regard to the financial consequences of changing the law to the state budget, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia points out that the applicants are deliberately placing a new holiday in that group of holidays that are not necessarily connected with the national celebrations, but can be given due attention to other celebrations, school events and, of course, cultural events. In the event that the day of Primož Trubar in the long-term systematisation of the national celebrations would be included in the first group, i.e. the group of holidays we celebrate each year or in the second group, these are the national celebrations that will take place every five years, i.e. they will no longer stand the claim that the bill will have no financial implications for the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Miran Györek, representative of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! The role and importance of Primož Trubar as the central personality of Slovenian cultural history need not be specifically justified. Indisputably, Primož Trubar also represents the central personality of Slovenian Protestantism and also the most important personality in developing the foundations of the formation of the Slovenian people. We are all aware of the fact that the name Primož Trubara starts with Slovenian library language and historical reporting in Slovenian language. The name Slovenians also becomes a public use and foundation of the Slovenian nation. We could also list his credits and contributions to the formation and formation of Slovenia's national identity. His works in symbol of Protestant ideals go beyond religious frameworks and move on to the formation of Slovenian national confidence as well as purely specific areas such as the development of education, Slovenian songs, essayists, narratives and so on. It is true that in the event of the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Holidays and Work of Days in the Republic of Slovenia, its name will be linked in some way to two holidays. However, it is also necessary to understand its dual role and the importance of the history and establishment of the foundations of the Slovenian people. One is the day of reform, which is certainly associated with the name Primož Trubar, and the other is the Memorial Day of Primož Trubar as the founder of the Slovenian book language, which could be irrefutablely compared, for example, with Geoffrey Chaucer in England, as regards the justification of the national book language. In the Slovenian National Party, in any event, and with the greatest satisfaction, we accept such a proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law and will also vote unanimously for adoption. In this case, however, it is pointless to argue about any financial implications for the State budget, especially when it comes to a holiday that is not part of the day off. The costs of some school and general cultural events and celebrations will certainly not undermine the well-known stability of our national budget. Even more pointless would be the controversy over the regulation of the holiday area in the Member States of the European Union, or the comparison with the number of holidays in each other of the European Union. We will vote in favour of the proposed amendments and additions to this law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u10	Your Honor! In the past, Primož Trubar has been undisputedly neglected in the Slovenian treatment of important individuals and events of history, and is thus under-emphasized in the process of education and education, as well as in the general conduct of the country, including citizens and citizens, when they remembered the great acts and great personalities of the past. Someone could tell us that we are making up a new holiday and that we already have it the most in Europe. But this is certainly not about wanting a holiday that most people view as a holiday, if it's a day off, but about marking, about a way that is mainly a cultural and civil dimension, not so social-working. That is why there may also be a bit of confusion in this debate when this law is discussed in the Social Council, the work, the family, not on the Committee on Culture, and that it is represented by completely different people, not those who are originally engaged in cultural and historical affairs, and if you want, including education, education and other similar things. This would be entirely appropriate in the future if we really marked this day and gave it weight in addition to the reform day, which was more or less for me, at least in the part where the Protestant society Primož Trubar participated in the treatment and marking of this holiday, especially the cultural holiday. And also some of the elements that we have encountered in the past at this festival, when it came to magnifying some others at the time and especially those, if I recall a bishop who liked to burn books and the like, something that went away from what was the basic purpose, was to mark the day of Protestantism with the central role of Primož Trubar and Protestant writers from the time they founded this Protestantism in Slovenia. After all, we could now separate this holiday and unquestionably say twice a year that the central person within Protestantism was Primož Trubar. But Primož Trubar as the founder of the Slovenian language, the first writer of the book, and the second day of the year. There is therefore no question in the Liberal Democracy about whether to support the Marking of the Day of Primož Trubar or not. It's awesome. We'll back it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The draft law, which has been contributed by the majority of the Group of Social Democrats and will receive the support of the entire Group of Members, should be given in the introduction some fundamental positions. First time. Day Primož Trubar is seen as a symbolic hub of individual and community awareness of the meaning of the language for national consciousness and confidence. Another time. The holiday will not be a day off, so it is not in conflict with efforts to limit and limit itself in the use of public funds. Third time. Day Primož Trubar is not a competition for any holiday, with no one wants to compete or in any way diminish its meaning. Fourth time. The holiday is an expression of respect for the individual's role in cultural history, not only of his people, but also of his involvement in European cultural space. Fifth. Spiritual breadth, creativity, work and entrepreneurship are being combined in Primož Trubar. On the day of Primož Trubar gets a real picture on the coin and a symbolic message about the life force of Slovenian even at the time of globalisation. Today's view of the importance of Primož Trubar for Slovenian language is also related to the question of how much in Slovenian culture, in its spiritual and linguistic image, is reflected in its far-reaching origin from the 16th century. We're surprised by the amount of work we've done. According to known findings, there were 26 books, 10 forewords, 3 forewords of his works, songs in five songs by other authors, 83 letters and 7 papers. And this extensive work would not have been without the linguistic opinion emanating from the first movements of humanism on Slovenian soil in the 15th century, namely the modern, equivalent evaluation of all living languages. However, Trubar's decision to write books in Slovenian grew from reformation. In doing so, Trubar did not stop only by establishing the national language of the book, it also means a degree in upgrading its deeper expression capacity. Although the trumpeter often thought of linguistic understanding for all layers of believers, it is not possible to ignore the artistic or rhetorical skills of his language from the first book onward. This can be an incentive for all those who today face responsibility for the development of all types of Slovenian language in order not to lose the rich heritage of the occupied development of Slovenian language and lose themselves in the linguistic universalism of modern times. Let me help myself with some succinct references from the thought of Edward Kocbek's language: "The word for man is the beginning of a stay, the justification of his social and moral self. Human beings are made to participate in reality. Every word is a magic key that opens the door to the unknown world of another more perfect approach to the reality of the environment and history. It is developing a new way of staying and understanding reality. There is no more perfect approach to reality than the appointment of a world with motherhood." In European cultural history, Primož Trubar has maintained a prominent place among European reformers, and his role as creator of Slovenian literary language and tradition of Slovenian literature has always been clearly expressed. They knew Trubar's theological and linguistic thinking, and he was addressed by his contemporary Herman Fabroni Mosemán, Valvasor, and was further processed by Theodor Elze in the second half of the 19th century. In the 20th century, we received three important conventions, the first in 1908, the next in 1952, and the third in 1987. And this is particularly interesting, since the majority of the contributions made by the various researchers are part of Primož Trubar and the Slovenian Reformation. Among the most resounding or famous names of the students of Trubar's activity, I also include Mirk Rupl and Jožet Reichman. We will therefore support the law in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u14	Good afternoon. Good-bye, everybody! In 2008, we celebrated the 500th anniversary of Primož Trubar. According to some figures born on June 8 or 9, Trubar was a Slovenian Protestant priest, writer and translator, renovator or reformer. He wanted to win Slovenians for a new religion with a Slovenian printed word. In order to meet practical needs, he first composed Katekism and Alphabetnic. Katekism contains some explanations of chapters of Protestant teachings, six songs, two prayers, and a sermon of faith. With this booklet Trubar wanted to teach the relatives of the Protestant faith and at the same time to meet the Protestant worship in Slovenian. Another book of the Abedarians, containing eight letters, wanted to teach them how to read. Trubar thus became a beginner of Slovenian literature. It is certainly right to remember it, and in the Slovenian Democratic Party we support the proposal to include the Day of Primož Trubar during the holidays. However, we have concerns raised by the Government as well as by many debaters at the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. As part of the holidays, we already have a holiday, which is also a day off - a day of reform that reminds us of reforms and reformers, among them always a key role is played by Primož Trubar. We believe that it would not make sense for these two events to double, so we would expect the applicants to consider the possibility that the day of reform and the day of Primož Trubar will unite and celebrate once, on a day that we will jointly and unanimously determine and which would also be working on a day off, so that the number of days off remains as it is in force now. We believe that the date of birth of Primož Trubar, already mentioned on June 8, would be appropriate. We will not oppose the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we would like to see that the day of Primož Trubar will not only be the day when he will be discussed at schools, organised events and celebrations, but the day when we will remember him at the level of the country, evaluate his work and discuss what he has done for the Slovenians. If the bill is adopted, this will certainly mean that we will have a holiday of two ranks: on the day of the reformation, we will have a national celebration and everything that belongs to it, and the Memorial Day will be left to the celebration of the Municipality of Velika Lašče, Rašćica, where it was born. The municipality of Velika Lašče is already celebrating Trubar's birthday as a municipal holiday. The day will be left to celebrate in schools, others interested, and we will not give him the meaning that the applicants want to give him. There will certainly be duplication of content and, in the opinion of the SDS Group, it would be wise to think more about one holiday day on the subject of Primož Trubar and the reformation, which will be a day off and will be celebrated in a single way at the state level and in the local environment. We will not oppose the law in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u16	Dear Presidents, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In a single country, we are particularly pleased to highlight the 20th anniversary of independence, when the united are finally to live in a single country. All too often, however, we remember important historical figures that have helped the Slovenian people and the Slovenian language and culture to exist and then to become independent. In the past, the views on individual events and personalities that marked our past, which were supposed to mark them during the holidays, were different. The Holidays and Work Act was radically changed in 2005, when December 26, that is, the day of independence, also became the day of unity. At that time we also remembered the merger of the Premurese Slovenians with their homeland, the return of Primorska and Rudolph Maistra. Regardless of the different views on the importance of individuals and individual events in 2008 at the 500th anniversary of the birth of the author of the book Slovenian language, we declared this year Trubar's year, and later the initiative focused on the mention of Primož Trubar in the framework of the Law on holidays and holidays. It is the author of the first book in the Slovenian language and the initiator of the formation of awareness of the unity of Slovenian cultural, linguistic and, consequently, political space. At the same time, it is a great European who, with his connections in exile, has cultivated a spirit of solidarity, coexistence and appreciation of cultural diversity. His friendship with Kopčan Pierre Paolo Vergeri and the inspired inspiration offered to Istrian Protestants, for example, Matija Vlačič Ilirik, testify to the size of this personality and its meaning beyond Slovenian borders. The three Members of the Trubar Group are really signatories to the proposed content, and in June the debate and the initial proposal highlighted two options for honouring Primož Trubar: either to complete the reform day or to set an alleged date of birth, i.e. 8 June 1508 as a memorial day for this great man. The applicants chose another, although it is clear that we will never forget and forget its importance on 31 October. The importance of the operation of Primož Trubar is also covered by the Slovenian Protestant Society MP, who stresses it as the central personality of Slovenian Protestantism in the 16th century and at the same time as the most important personality in the development of the foundations for the formation of the Slovenian nation, as its writings begin with the Slovenian Book Language. An extraordinary historical significance arising from the part of Primož Trubar. is the beginning of written reporting in Slovenian, theological and philosophical discussion, clarification and drafting of legal texts in Slovenian. Although his books had been banned since 1596 by Catholics, the Slovenian language developed further. History shows that among Protestants it was a man with a broad horizon, with exceptional respect for European contemporarys. His works, which far exceed the purely religious meaning, were created in symbol of Protestant ideals and great love for home and mankind. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are here and as Slovenians, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia agree with the language whose public use comes from Trubar's works. From this period also comes the declaration of the unity of members of the Slovenian culture and of the Slovenian nation, irrespective of the borders that separated the nation. We can no doubt argue that Trubar has laid the foundation for the gradual development of the national identity, mental awareness and national self-determination, which is overtaken by the European spirit of respect for diversity, the identity with which we are now equally involved in the wider international space. In the Parliamentary Group, we really support the purpose of the law, although everyone disagrees with the solution given in the proposed amendment of the law, so everyone will vote in their own opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary, colleague and colleague! While we appreciate the purpose of the proposalrs in the parliamentary group to mark the famous husband Primož Trubar with a new holiday, who must have been a fateful symbol of Slovenian history and national identity, we will not support this complementary law. There are two main reasons for our refusal. First time. Slovenia already has the most holidays among European countries. This certainly burdens the performance of our economy and the state budget, although the proponents argue that the law will not impose a burden on the budget. We all know that this is not so that it will certainly take some additional resources to mark the public holiday, even though it will not be a day off. Another even more important reason is that we already have a holiday where every year we remember the great Primož Trubar, the Day of the Reformation, October 31. In our opinion, the holiday marks an important turning point in the history of the Slovenian nation and is a memory of all those who were passengers of Trubar at the time, so in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we propose to reject this law together today and, with a new addition to the Reformation Day, to add the Mark of Primož Trubar, so that the holiday could for example be called the Day of Reform and Primož Trubar or otherwise. The celebration of the Reformation covers all events and persons who have had a significant impact on the changes in our society. The name of the holiday after Primož Trubar would also highlight the importance of this great man, who is already quoted most frequently at the celebrations of the Reformation Day, using his works and name at celebrations. I myself have carefully read the opinion of the Government and have listened to the Secretary of State at today's meeting and the Secretary of State from the Ministry of Culture at the meeting of the home working body, where, among other things, it has been clear that the Government does not oppose this proposal, and none of the two representatives of the Government said that the Government supports this proposal. If I speculate a little bit more, I ask what the debate would be like in the National Assembly, and especially what the Government would say if a proposal to supplement the law with the content in question were proposed by our parliamentary group, for example. The current opinion of the government gives this thinking a clear answer. As we say, we will not support the law. However, we will support the solution that we have proposed or similar if you put it into the parliamentary procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša will present the position of Mr DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings from secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! In our parliamentary group, we will support the bill, including how another option would be to amend and supplement the law on holidays and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia. It makes provision for the day of Primož Trubar to be included among the festivals, which would strengthen the awareness of the importance of Primož Trubar not only as a Protestant reformer, founder and first superintendent of the Protestant church in Slovenia, but also as the founder of the Slovenian literary language, which, with its outstanding and divisive work, marked its time and created an eternal foundation for Slovenian national self-esteem and self-confidence. Since it is a holiday that is not part-time and therefore will not cause income losses in companies, in the DeSUS Group we are happy to support the novel proposal, because Primož Trubar, as one of the fathers of the Slovenian book language, deserves a special day in which he would be honored for the indelible seal he left on Slovenian history. We are also pleased that the Government does not insist on its rejection of this holiday and thus shows that it is aware of the importance of the biggest Slovenian reformer. As has already been said, in our Group of Members, we support the proposal to become the holiday of Primož Trubar on 8 June. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the assembly could not be tabled. That is why I am concluding a second reading of the bill. It will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting on Friday, 18 June 2010, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, this is on the eve of a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the law on student food subsidies - a reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Council of State, Mr Drag Žura.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Your Honor! The subsidised student diet has been implemented since the spring of 1992, when both university student organisations began their subsidisation. The State joined the subsidisation itself in autumn 1992 and the whole matter was then based in the budget line and in the law on the implementation of the budget. In this way, the subsidised student diet was implemented until 1996, when a regulation on student diet subsidies was adopted in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with the Regulation, the whole thing was then implemented until 2002, when a law on student nutrition subsidies was passed in the National Assembly and student nutrition is also being implemented under this Act, as we know it today. The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, which has been tabled by the Council of State in the national assembly procedure, regulates the scope of the necessary records for the implementation of the system, the manner and the obligation to exchange personal data on the basis of which eligibility is determined, thereby eliminating administrative obstacles and the possibility of abuse, and regulates the scope of sanctioning tenderers in the event of breach of contractual obligations. We're just going to adapt to the fact that paper vouchers are going to go away. The beneficiaries will be defined more precisely, the rights to additional subsidies will be defined more precisely and the transition process itself will be defined in a new way, as laid down by the amendment of the 2007 Act. The amended draft law from the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee is the result of the search for the best solutions in accordance with the opinion delivered by the Government, with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, with the opinion of the Council of State to the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, where additional explanations were also provided, the opinion of the Information Officer and the debate held at the meeting of the Committee. As a result, both the Government and the Legal Service and the representative of the Information Officer were positively identified, in principle, until the amendment to the law. In the law itself, in Article 1, we define more precisely and more clearly who, according to the way in which health insurance is provided, is entitled to a subsidised student diet. 2. Article 2 of the amended proposal specifies more precisely on the condition that students are entitled to additional subsidies for Saturdays and weeks. There was an anomaly that they had the right to multiple subsidies for those who had fewer study obligations, according to those students who had studied extremely, received a subsidy even on Saturday, but not on a regular basis. Article 3 sets out new personal data, while at the same time recording the missing ones, which should already be recorded on the basis of the exercise of additional entitlement to subsidies for students of parents, students of disabled persons and students of children who have fallen into the war for Slovenia, and also sets a deadline for the storage of these data and the way in which these data are deleted. At the same time, the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance imposes an obligation to report whether or not the individual is entitled to subsidisation by way of insurance. In Article 4, as has already been said, we are abolishing a sanction that will no longer be possible to pass when there are no more paper vouchers. A transitional and final provision, however, regulates the transition to a new system and imposes a deadline on the minister to comply with the amended law. By adopting the bill, the legal basis for implementing the subsidised student diet will be updated, which will result in a more precise, more unambiguous and, above all, the most important, more friendly to students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. The Committee's views will be presented by Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič, President. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Hello again! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, at its 14th session and at its second and third sessions, on 16th meeting, considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, which was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Council of State with a proposal for the consideration and adoption of a bill following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner. Representatives of the proposer, representative of the Government, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, representatives of the Information Commissioner and representative of the Ministry of Education and Sport participated in the work of the Committee. The Committee had before it the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Government with amendments, the opinion of the State Council with regard to the amendments of the Government and the proposals of the State Council for amendments to the Committee. The members of the Committee also received an opinion from an information officer for whom the Committee had requested at its 14th meeting and had therefore submitted an examination of the above-mentioned draft law. The legislative and legal service has examined the proposed law in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative technical aspect and made comments to Articles 3 and 4 and the Final provision. In its opinion, the Government has in principle supported the adoption of the bill. In its opinion, the Council of State defined itself to the amendments of the Government, agreed in principle with them and proposed to the Committee an amendment to Article 3, to the title of the chapter for a new Article 4a and a new Article 4b to take account of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. In the opinion of the information officer, specific comments are made on Articles 1 and 3. The Commissioner also proposed an integrated revision of the rules on subsidisation of student diets, which are contrary, before the proposed amendment of the law on subsidisation of student diet. On the basis of these opinions, the Committee has drawn up its amendments, by which it has taken greater account of the above-mentioned opinions and has also adopted the amendment of the Government to Article 4. The representative of the proposer provided an additional explanation of the bill. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and the representative of the Information Officer, however, stressed in the oral opinion that the proposed amendments took into account in principle all their concerns and comments. In a short discussion, some discussers stressed that the bill was opposed by collecting information that they did not think was necessary and could be misused. On the other hand, the proponents of the bill considered that the Committee's amendments also addressed the comments of the Legal and Information Services and the Information Officer, as they were prepared on the basis of their opinions. The Committee adopted its amendments to Articles 1 and 3, to the title of the Chapter and to the new Articles 4a and 4b. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Dr. Anji Kopač Mrak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs for the opening presentation of the views of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! As a proposal for January, the Council of State tabled a proposal for a new law on student nutrition subsidies. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the proposal for additions and amendments to the law represents only the next step in the process of electronicising student diet. This process was initiated by amending and supplementing the 2007 Act, which provided that the student nutrition operator would ensure that student nutrition subsidies are maintained in the form of an electronic record with a computerised system no later than the 2010/2011 study year. The Government has drawn up an opinion on the proposal for a new law, which, in principle, agrees with the proposal of the law, and has also drafted two amendments, namely Articles 3 and 4, which sought to improve the text of the bill and, above all, to facilitate its feasibility in practice. The proposed change in the process, as I have already said, is leading to the continuation of the e-electronisation of student diet, while also regulating certain inconsistencies in the existing law mainly in the area of student nutrition beneficiaries, where it is added that beneficiaries are not self-employed and retired persons. In addition, the definition of additional subsidised instalments of beneficiaries is added in the case of study obligations at work on days off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the LDS Club, Mr Ljubo Germič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representative of the Council of State, Madam Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! Normalisation of student nutrition subsidies is regulated by the Student Food Subsidisation Act, as last amended in 2009. The subsidised student diet is a meal whose costs are partly borne by the State and thus increase the standard of students and make it easier for them to study. Under the authority of the Ministry of Higher Education, the student food provider is the Student Organisation of Slovenia, which for the implementation of the vouchers is as close to students as possible and organises sales through student organisations of individual universities. The system of the sale of vouchers, as we have known it so far, is substantially changing with the proposed amendment. Thus, students will no longer purchase vouchers for each subsidised food provider and will no longer have to decide in advance where to eat, as the difference between the value of the meal and the subsidy will be settled directly with the subsidised food provider. Instead of selling the vouchers, a subsidy scheme is introduced. In order to electronise the student diet system, which will be based on mobile phones, the operator needs some new data to enable him to make his work normal. Furthermore, the draft amendment prepared by the State Council provides for a new definition of who is not entitled to a subsidised diet. This category is followed by a new self-employed or pensioner, with the exception of family pensioners. It also solves the problems of students who have school obligations on Saturdays and Sundays and prove so with appropriate evidence. Due to the needs of the operator to introduce a new method of monitoring the subsidised diet, additional personal data may be collected under Article 3. In view of the sensitive issue of the accumulation and processing of personal data, the information authority also forwarded its opinion to the drafting of amendments to the law. On the basis of her opinion in the LDS, we agree with the proposed solution that mobile phone numbers or e-mail addresses may be further collected, since there is really no need for one student to have both data available. In particular, it is appropriate to highlight the opinion of the authorising officer that the processing of personal data must be technologically neutral so that the urgency and appropriateness of the type of personal data necessary to achieve the purpose of the implementation of the food must not depend on the technology by which the implementation is supported. Since students who do not own a mobile phone are given the option of using a chip card to use a subsidised diet, in LDS we are particularly reminded of the opinion of the Commissioner that it is much more friendly with regard to privacy protection than using mobile phones. From this point of view too, the experience of experimental use of mobile phones for the use of subsidies currently under way on the Coast will need to be carefully examined. In the LDS, we agree with the precise definition of data storage and that this is limited only to the end of the next school year and after that period the data providers must delete from the records, at the specific request of the beneficiary, it must be done earlier. In the LDS, we support students with a friendly provision that the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute should provide food providers with data on the orderliness of compulsory health insurance, and on this basis the operator can determine who is entitled to the subsidy, i.e. to the subsidised diet, and who is not. Students no longer need to deal with the issue of proof of their eligibility for subsidised diet. The legal amendment adequately addresses the issue of transition, so it deals with the issue of the holder of the vouchers when an electronic student diet system is introduced. According to the LDS, these changes in the law correct and regulate the main shortcomings of the original proposal, which could hinder the application of the electronisation of the student diet system. However, we also agree with the Information Commissioner's opinion that an integrated revision of student food subsidies rules is necessary. We point out that the necessary care and consistency on the part of the operator, which will process or maintain the electronic system, will not result in the processing of more personal data than is necessary and legally determined. At the LDS, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues The proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation is being assessed as a consequence of the transition to a more modern way of implementing student diet. The existing system, as we have today, is still based on printed paper food vouchers that the student personally needs to buy at a number of designated sales sites. The student must therefore first decide which student food providers and how many times a month he will be able to eat. The student must have purchased vouchers and a valid student card or index for identification in order to obtain the corresponding hot meal. Although the student diet system has already experienced some improvements in the past, it is still essentially outdated and allows many abuses; from the fact that the vouchers are eaten by people who are not entitled to the subsidised diet to the fact that some innkeepers are cashing in a subsidy for meals they have not sold at all. As we live in a modern, technologically developed society, it is high time that we also modernise the implementation of student nutrition subsidies. The new way in which the student will benefit from the subsidy through his mobile phone will bring more flexibility to the student in the choice of diet while at the same time significantly limiting the possibility of abuse. However, in order to make the system truly alive, some of the legislative changes that the proposed law also brings are necessary. Changes in the collection of personal data by students are particularly sensitive, and so far, according to the opinion of the information officer and the amendments adopted by the Committee, are also adequately regulated. In doing so, we cannot overlook the concerns that the newly collected personal data of students, i.e. mobile phone numbers and their e-mail addresses, will not be adequately secured, especially after the experience of the last student protests, when students received their calls for demonstrations only after SMS messages. The responsibility for the proper handling of all student personal data lies also with the student organisations of universities that will collect this data. There is no doubt, however, that they must also be subject to public scrutiny. Any concealment of information and information, as we have seen in the case of financial transactions, by indicating that it is a matter of private law, is, of course, unacceptable at the moment. The Group of Social Democrats will support the proposed law, since it will make life easier for students and students in particular. However, we will not support the proposed amendments, although the concerns set out in the explanations are legitimate and we want to see everyone's suspicions of irregularities fully investigated and the possible responsibility of those involved. Nevertheless, we do not think that this is sufficient reason to reject some process of improving the implementation of student diet, which is already in progress and will, as it is said, bring the greatest benefit to students and students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u32	Have a nice hello again! There's been a lot of talk lately about students, student organisations, as well as about student diets. The previous government, as has been said, drafted amendments to the draft law, which provided for the implementation of the new system in the 2008/2009 school year. In 2007, this deadline was extended to the school year 2009/2010 and the system is still not fully operational. The amendment of the law provides for changes in the field of records, which will include some personal data, i.e. the address, the mobile phone number and the e-mail address. That is why the Legislative and Legal Service has warned, and then such a decision has also been taken on the proposal of our Member Robi Hroat to include an information officer. We got her opinion, and some of you already quoted him. The Authority considers that the processing of personal data must be technologically neutral so that the urgency and appropriateness of the type of personal data necessary to achieve the objective cannot depend on the technology with which the implementation is supported. It points out, in short, that these data could only be optional, so if a student wishes to demonstrate entitlement to subsidised student diet by using a mobile phone, but if he does not wish to do so, the student organisation must also allow him to demonstrate his entitlement differently. As has already been said, it also considers that one data or telephone number is sufficient to communicate between the student and the contractor, or the address of the residence, or an electronic address, and as mentioned also suggests that a comprehensive review should be carried out in the field of student nutrition, since the authorising officer considers that it is at least unusual that the law has 10 articles and then it is governed by two sub-legislative acts, one with 27 and the other with 19 articles. For Members and Members of the SDS, the most controversial event is the introduction of the new system. In fact, one of the reasons why a new system should also be introduced by collecting telephone numbers is that a survey should be carried out among students. In recent times there have been reports that the survey has not been carried out at all, or at least not with such questions, when asking students whether they want the system to be regulated in this way. So it has been all along this false information to both the public and us Members, so that is the student's will. Moreover, it has even been proven that this survey is to be carried out by students who were in practice in Ultra. In March 2009, the student organisation of Slovenia issued a call for who will do this work, to which Bankart and Margenta applied. On that occasion, Company IV pointed out that they were themselves interested in the application, that they had presented their proposal a month before the dark tender was even notified. This has been published for a very short time on the student organisation’s website, probably already a problem since competition is already being prevented in advance. If the invitation to tender was written on the skin of Margent, at least the exclusion clause that the system should be made only on the basis of a portable phone, it was also further known that only one Golobičev Ultre subsidiary could offer it. The Ultre, the co-owner of which is Margento, is also the Minister of Higher Education. Aleksander Polutnik, former head of the Ultra Research Department, was on the board. However, he later stepped out, apparently directing the work and also directing the committee that the call was prepared as it had been. At its meeting on 21 May, the student organisation said that Margento would be selected at the invitation, although it was only on 27 May that Bankart informed the competing company. In this regard, criminal charges have been filed and we would expect to wait for the amendment of the law. He's being proposed by the State Council. We want to know why he's so interested that a student's diet is arranged in this way. Perhaps because Mr Drago Jura was also on the selection committee, or because he was on the invitation to tender, or because he had to cover a solution that left behind in all segments, at least indicating the suspicion of a crime which would, of course, have to be identified by the competent services. It is therefore disputed to us that we are now adopting such a law, [[... sign for the end of the debate]] to improve student nutrition and the system, but with so many concerns, we would only expect the competent services to take matters more seriously, as well as the ministry, which should be responsible for the proper implementation of student nutrition.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Tadej Slapnik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u34	Honourable Vice-President, Government, Council of State, colleague and colleague! The existing law lays down the right of students to subsidised food and the way and criteria for subsidisation. The beneficiaries of the subsidised diet are students and are educated in Slovenia and must not be employed. The subsidised diet is also justified by those students from foreign universities who, taking into account reciprocity in international exchanges in Slovenia, carry out their study obligations. While the law has already seen certain changes in this mandate, which bring improvements to students, particularly more transparent solutions, among which it would point out the following. The student can no longer be entered into the unemployment register, the records maintained by the operator shall be accompanied by the single parent number required for the implementation of the subsidy, and a ban on the sale of student vouchers for a period of one to a maximum of three months has been added. The student organisation of Slovenia is in the phase of a comprehensive overhaul of the way the student food subsidy system is implemented, whereby students will no longer buy student vouchers in advance. The concept of the recast system, however, requires current legal changes in the field of records, data exchange and sanctioning of violators. This, according to our assessment, is also followed by solutions to the proposed law. Since this is an extremely sensitive area of record-keeping, we have supported the postponement of the consideration of the law in the home labour system in the Member Group for real – a new policy so that we can also gain the position of the information officer. It was pointed out here that the processing of personal data must be neutral and that the urgency and appropriateness of the type of personal data necessary for the implementation of the subsidised student diet alone should not depend on the technology with which it is supported. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Services and the Information Commissioners, appropriate amendments were also adopted by the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee, which, according to the Zares Group’s assessment, allow for the proper implementation of the law. However, I would like to point out the proposal by the Information Commissioner that there is a need for an integrated revision of the rules on student nutrition subsidies, with which we agree on a new policy in the Member Group. This is an area which should provide for subsidisation in a way that would prevent any abuse of data in practice. In the Group of Members, we will support the proposal for a new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u36	Once again, thank you very much for your words to the Vice-President! If I were an outside observer, I'd say, "Happy birthday, oh and ah, great." There, two opposition opposition groups are kicking something, but otherwise everything is in order. And if I were to pass on the debate or if the vote on the working body were to be rewritten on this working body, the result of this vote would also be different, it would be reversed and today the debate would certainly be different. That's what I hope to say. But if I went to this other marriage today, I'd say so. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support some urgent changes to the law, which introduce more order and responsibility in the field of student diet. In the parliamentary group, however, we have concerns about the need to collect additional personal data for the purpose of subsidising this same student diet. The records to be kept by the operator shall include, in addition to the other data, the address, mobile phone number and the address of the beneficiary’s e-mail address, as the operator is supposed to need it to implement student nutrition subsidies. The obligation of higher- and higher education institutions and health insurance institutions to provide data on the status and method of insurance of beneficiaries for food subsidies is introduced. In this way, it is intended to relieve the student of obtaining certificates and to provide immediate information on status and insurance, which consequently means eligibility or inequitableness, thereby reducing possible abuses. However, the collection of personal data and the mandatory use of mobile phones and e-mails is controversial. We know that this is very dangerous and that such links and data and databases can be misused. Only because of food subsidies can it be practically possible via electronic media, for example, monitoring the operation and movement of students. We fully agree with the comments of the information officer, whose comments have been partly summarised in the Committee's amendments, but we will not support the law, because it requires unnecessary regulation, as also stated by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. It raises the question of a reasonable or proportionate reason to determine such additional administrative requirement of the operator after obtaining certain new personal data on students, which, according to the applicant, is necessarily necessary for the new way in which the student subsidy scheme is implemented, without sufficient explanation, in our opinion, explaining the reasons or reasons for the necessity of obtaining each individual personal data in accordance with Article 3 of the Personal Data Protection Act. There must be a number of irregularities, intentional or unintended, in the distribution of the vouchers. That is why the government has all the repressive authorities, inspections in the authorities to control the use of funds, and we also have Durs, the police, and so on. Nevertheless, human rights and privacy are of greater importance and it is not acceptable to adopt laws that do not respect them in democracy. The urgent changes should therefore be addressed in a different way. Also changes required by new time and more modern technology. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group for this reason, we will not support changes so prepared and legislative amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Once again a nice greeting from my side! The Council of State proposes to amend the law governing the subsidisation of student food vouchers with a view to correcting certain legal provisions that have in practice proved inconsistent and not sufficiently clearly defined. Of course, they are the result of every imperfect, unimaginable rule of law, anomalies, and abuses. In the case of this law, this is linked to the exploitation of the purposeful consumption of subsidised student meals. In the DeSUS Group, we therefore agree with the proposal that it is imperative to define exactly the beneficiaries of food subsidies and, of course, to bring conditional eligibility to the subsidy under the programme of implementation in the course of study obligations. The proposed additions thus further prevent the possibility of undue use of vouchers or subsidies. We believe that the amendment of the law has not only preserved the basic objective of subsidising student nutrition but will thus strengthen it even more. The new, complementary definition of data in the record required by the grant student food provider in connection with the implementation of the system and the obligation to provide data on the status and method of insurance of beneficiaries by the Slovenian Health Insurance Office also reduces the possibility of abuse, as immediate and direct information on the status of the insured is provided. In addition, students and administrative performers are burdened and contribute significantly to, hopefully, a very close recovery of the renewed e-Amortisation system of student food subsidies. The new system is also subject to sanctions for violations by food providers. The original text of the bill was corrected by taking into account the comments and opinions of the expert services of the National Assembly and the information officer, so that the proposal of the law is supplemented by the support of our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Student Food Subsidisation, as such legislation will make sense to maintain the basic objective of providing subsidised student diet, which means, in other words, allowing students to lower the costs of study and regular, healthy diet. The basic substantive characteristics of the new amendment of the law are meaningful and justified. Let me stress just a few well-founded and welcome changes. According to the amendment proposal, the student can no longer be registered with the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. The records maintained by the operator include, in addition to other data, an EMŠO number, as this is what the contractor needs to implement student nutrition subsidies, we also understand here the concerns and reservations about possible violations of the Data Protection Act. The obligation to report monthly to the Ministry is deleted as it is sufficient for the provider to report to the operator and to report to the Ministry. A sanction has been added to prohibit the sale of student vouchers for at least one and a maximum of three months. The direct transition from a written warning to a ban on the implementation of student food subsidies has proved to be too strict in practice, as the guest was given a sales ban and a ban on the redemption of the vouchers and the student was unable to cash in the vouchers already purchased while being counted as a monthly quota and therefore an ad hoc sanction should be added. In short, if I repeat in a summary that essential, the existing law with solutions is based on a basic objective, allowing all students to lower their study costs and a more quality and healthy diet at each study centre in Slovenia and thus contribute to a better study. The Law on Student Food Subsidisation therefore provides for subsidised student diet irrespective of the social situation of students or their families. The basic principle followed by amendments to the law is that students do not suffer from the possibility of sanctioning the tenderer. In short, we will support the proposed changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 15 May. 6. The amendments are tabled in Articles 3 and 4. And I am putting first in the debate Article 3 and the amendments to Article 3. Mr. Robert Croat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As colleague Jakob Preseknik said earlier about the speaker, at first glance there are both marriages, but now I will focus mainly on the latter, and at first glance O.K. The problem is in detail. The problem is in detail, and that's the fact. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree that it is simply necessary to provide a newer system, e-electronics for student nutrition. We have been inclined to do so in the previous term, and that is why there has been a change in the law, which has been done so well and well. The fact is, we will be one of the few countries, if not the only ones we will introduce this method of payment. We're talking about phone payments. This is a unique person to whom an information officer has also been alerted. In its opinion, the Information Officer clearly stated that it would have felt significantly better if some electronic cards had been introduced, rather than this way as proposed here today. But the problem starts somewhere else, the problem was actually the invitation. A call for how the broadcast took place, for example, is sent to one of the tenderers. In my opinion, this is a big business for some dedicated or one dedicated. Look, it's a force issue. If nothing else, it is a procedure that has taken place under suspicious circumstances. How did this procedure of selecting the tenderer to carry out this business take place? In March 2009, the student organisation of Slovenia published an invitation to resubsidised student diet. This invitation was opened by Bankart and Margenta, a subsidiary of Ultre. Her co-owner is also Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Mr Gregor Golobič. Isn't that an issue? On 14 October 2009, a contract for the electronicisation of student vouchers was signed between the Student Organisation of Slovenia and Margento, a subsidiary of Ultra, which offered solutions for the introduction of student nutrition payments via mobile telephony. Margento was the only bidder for the execution of electronics. However, the offer was concluded, despite the fact that the anti-corruption commission had not issued any opinion at the time, despite the fact that a comment was made, nor did it reject the suspicion of corruption in the execution of the tender. At that time, the Slovenian Student Organisation publicly committed itself to not signing the contract until the anti-corruption commission gave its opinion and rejected all suspicions of corruption. What happened later? See, one of those who wanted to apply for the invitation, I will quote him, in one of the Slovenian media it was clearly written; Tomaž Frelih, Director of Systems in the company's Fourth Path, stated: "With all the professional competence I claim that no company in the world except Ultra and its subsidiaries can apply to such an invitation here in Slovenia." Well, that suggests that this invitation was made for someone. If I touch the amendment itself, I should have said that I was a little bit surprised at the beginning of the examination of this law over all the data that should have been collected in subsidising student nutrition. We're talking about cell phone numbers, e-mail addresses and so on. I don't think that would be necessary if we introduced some electronic cards. I think the deal would be significantly cheaper because there would be more bidders where there would be competition. But no, it persisted, the invitation was prepared in this way, and the deal got only one and dedicated. Look what happened at the last student demonstrations: there was an abuse of phone numbers. This was pointed out by students and students who said that they received messages from unknown numbers to attend demonstrations, in what way and how. So, there's a question here that someone has some records and that different messages are being sent and they call themselves students and students, and probably someone else. It's probably in the interest of a political party to maybe get some kind of database. Of course, for any political party this would be very welcome, it would certainly be welcome. The impact of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology on this business was obvious, more than obvious. The invitation was written on only one skin, so Margento Services. Additional personal data are now being added, which is absolutely controversial for me, and I will not agree to that. I think it would be right for this amendment, which we have proposed, to be adopted. I do not understand that all the Slovenian left actually covers the controversial work of one member of the coalition, even if he is a minister of higher education. I believe that everything that has been going on in this business seems disputed to others as well. But no, you'll do anything to cover someone who's from this coalition. For whatever it takes. And I don't think that's right. So, what exactly are we going to talk about today? Today we're going to talk about subsidising student nutrition. The reason why such personal data will be collected, which we are talking about today, and we are talking about telephone numbers and e-mail addresses, is that this call was written on the skin of one company that can offer it. There was no competition, and business is here. That's my opinion. I find it controversial, and I believe that many of you may also find it controversial. As the information officer has already stated or stated in her opinion, it would be significantly better if an electronic card were introduced where such personal data would not be needed and would be based on these data that already exist. Once again, I propose that we accept this amendment and that this matter be resolved in such a way that the abuse of these personal data does not occur, which I think we will witness as soon as possible. Last but not least, the fact that you are all, in fact, all the parliamentary groups have pointed to this. Even though there are some guardians in the marriage, we all warn that this would not have occurred. So there's a chance. Why are we giving up a chance to do this if we don't have to? And we could solve the matter substantially differently, without any phone payments, but on the basis of electronic card payments, and we wouldn't need such personal data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. I will, of course, support our amendment. I've said a few things before, let me add a few more. If everything was so clear, transparent, the matter would not have been clouded by some black packs, we would have believed that if some things had not happened last year or earlier this year. Our Group of Members has twice requested an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs on the subject of the suspicion of an illegal and non-transparent procedure for the introduction of the electronicisation of student vouchers. The President rejected this twice for a variety of reasons, despite the fact that the concerns were both in public and between us Members. We have then done the matter, but there is no logic that in some things in this Parliament, on the committees which are intended to do so, we cannot discuss these things. To the Bureau of Investigation, we have given criminals extremely favourable conditions — in new premises, better conditions — for work, and we would expect them to also address these issues, to see if everything is okay, not to commit any crime, or that suspicions arising in public are rejected by those responsible. We would equally expect to define the Competition Protection Office or nothing was wrong with the invitation to tender. Some other things have happened. We have put in the Ministry of Golobi's telecommunications, and in the last year a number of calls have been made or have been made, or in the last two years, where the transactions are received by Ultra, clearly as one of the best that anyone else can offer in certain areas, but if it is not Ultra, then Margento, who, while in 2005, 2006, 2007 together generated EUR 943 in revenue, in 2008, EUR 3007, but in this year will be 350 000, because she works student vouchers or took over this job. Comrade Levanic said that students were invited to demonstrations via SMS. I would like to know where they will be invited by Minister Golobič when his company receives GSM from all 40,000 students who are beneficiaries of the vouchers and whether he may abuse them for political purposes. They probably won't, but maybe they will. We also have an investigative commission in Parliament to investigate certain matters concerning Ultra. At the very least, it's that there's been a lot of ambiguity. We don't know who owns it, who doesn't own it, lies, changes and so on. Perhaps it would be wise for these things to be cleared up before a company that apparently cannot be commended on just a positive balance is able to make a number of points. And the competent services in this country should determine whether or not these transactions are okay. It is clear that such a business for Margenta is interesting, 7 cents from each transaction, that is, 350 000 euros a year and it will be able to recover a lot, I have already told myself how they have worked, had quite a few problems in recent years, and were nothing successful. At the 13th regular meeting of the Student Assembly of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, when it was said that Margento would be selected on the call because Bankart did not meet the conditions – I had already said that this had happened on 21 March and then Bankart was informed on 27th that he had not been selected. This is probably a bit of a problem because we have a Public Procurement Act and legislation that determines how, when and how the registered tenderers are notified. The coin system was also mentioned. Mr Aleš Bržan said about the coin, and the former Presidency of the SOU in Ljubljana had concerns about the use of mobile phones, since the transaction is too long, but the fact that this system, which they also presented with practical implementation, is based on other technologies and is going a lot faster, the transaction takes a few seconds, less than 10 seconds, this candidate has also implemented a functioning city ticket system –card. It has already been said that knowledgeers of the system, I am not, but I believe those who deal with these things, say that this is a worse and more expensive option, and that practice will probably show that it is an inefficient and impractical system. As mentioned earlier, they do not know this system abroad, but they do buy food on card cards or student cards. And at this same meeting it was also mentioned what is the possibility of using student cards made by the university and which should only be upgraded. Mr Bržan spoke about the use of student cards issued by the university to talk, but this is the worst solution for student organisation. If the university took over the implementation of a subsidised student diet, student organisations lose a large area of activity in favour of the student population. This is why it is mainly a political decision, why not a student card. So we are not doing what is a good decision for students, but what is good for student organisation or student organisation and its officials. Just a record of what the Ministry of Labour must have received should, I don't know, at least encourage the Ministry to invite these gentlemen from the student organisation to talk and ask them to check whether it is possible to implement and upgrade student cards, which are already, but not to introduce some new system that, as we find, an information officer and we here can lead to abuse. And it has been said that the Information Commissioner proposes to review and revise all legislation so far in this area. While this can be done, we know how it is, once contracts are signed and when a matter is in force, to break up such a contract also means sanctions, including penalties, etc. Therefore, it is probably the right time to draw attention to this before such a contract is signed and before it happens. The state has entrusted the organisation of student vouchers to the student organisation, that is true, but the ministry is watching over this. And the ministry is the one that has to be sensitive to abuse, because we are talking about the big money that is ultimately paid by students who once do not have enough scholarships to show up before Parliament because of different things, even though we don't even have law in Parliament. They probably do not know that they must demonstrate before the government that they have adopted, or before the ministry that is preparing a small work law, but they come before parliament and destroy here. I would therefore suggest that you take another look at our amendment to Article 3 to ask yourself whether we really need to collect a mobile phone number and whether we need to make a decision at this point that will cover the already executed call and the chosen contractor or at least what needs to be reviewed, to look again at our amendment and ask yourself whether we need to collect a mobile phone number and an e-mail address and whether we can accept it if you do not accept it, because we will not or will not support our amendment if we do not consciously decide that political abuses can also occur, because students say that it was a political decision. Aren't students in the role of students? Are they a political organization or something? They always say they represent the rights of students who are probably politically different. It was a political decision to go to this system, because then they'd have something to do and otherwise they wouldn't have anything to do. I suggest you support our amendment and we all take another look at these things together. The Commission of Inquiry against the Minister of Higher Education is likely to produce some results, and then we would decide and make as drastic decisions as proposed by this law. And it is also not negligible who is proposing the law. I've already said it's the State Council. If the Ministry considered that a change of law was necessary, it would probably just do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I would be grateful if you would take note of Mrs Alenka Jeraj's warning when she stressed what the content of this amendment is and talk more about it than ever before. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I will talk about this information, but there is still a little more to be said about this data, which is foreseen in Article 3. Firstly, I do not like and I am surprised that this law does not come to the National Assembly of the Government or the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, given that we have a student diet arranged only as a kind of unique in the European scale. That is why we need to pay even more attention to these things. And I'm not saying that we have the wrong thing, because we have another way, we don't have college campuses and so on. As a result, it was necessary to regulate this and also to determine exactly who is entitled to this student diet. This must come to the inn anywhere in Slovenia. But in this matter, as it is said, the Ministry is not a proponent. There's an obvious group gathered around the minister, and the leadership of the student organization, and I don't know, I'm going to speculate, probably also on some student service because I expect a similar law to be in the field of student service or student work soon on our benches. There is also the National Council, where interests are represented. And so comes one that I won't say lobbyist or any kind of marriage to the National Assembly. That is why I am sad today literally at both first two points. Those who should prepare such a proposal do not prepare it and do not even say that they support it, at the second honey, at the first nothing, but that they do not oppose it. This is an important difference between these two terms. Again, I wonder what kind of law it would be if it were prepared by the Ministry of Labour. I am extremely sorry, and I regret that the Ministry of Labour has not prepared it. With regard to this Article 3 or the amendment, I have already made clear in the introduction, as the opinion of the Group of Members, why we cannot agree with this collection of data. After all, the legislation dictates so. While we were on the committee to work with some of the amendments, we were trying to make things right. I will again stress that if we listened to the debate on the Committee and even voted in this way, the result would certainly be different. This amendment deletes the most controversial issue and I will also support this amendment in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I won't support the amendment. It only serves to allow the proposer to speak for 40 minutes about Minister Gregor Golobic. And everything students do or Ultra do, they think the Minister of Higher Education is behind everything. He has not dealt with Ultra since 2007, and he is probably not responsible for all the actions of the students. We may even end up having granite cubes thrown into ourselves. We've heard that in the last two years of state affairs, we've been getting Ultra. It would be good to have them, since it is a highly technologically advanced company. But tell me what business she really lost. No, just say we get them if we don't. Tell me what she got. You said on the investigative committee that there were some confusions. I don't know if you've been on any of the three where Gregor Golobič had the chance to be present, which he's been trying for over a half year, and he's responded to all your eyewitnesses that you've been sowing in public for over half a year. He's answered every question. And all the eyewitnesses you mentioned, to which he had the opportunity to respond, turned out to be unrealistic. I won't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I listened carefully to the arguments of the motioners of this amendment, but I'm afraid they didn't convince me. The amendment is seemingly attractive, interesting, because it acts in terms of the protection of personal data, and we could agree, at the principle level, that the time we live in and the systems we operate on essentially limit individual freedom, because they store a lot of personal data. But to start this discussion at this point, after all our orders, communications, electronic communications, through which we order, purchase, book, run on mobile phones, computers, e-mails, I think hair is attracted. In particular, because the purpose of this amendment is to reopen the issue of problematic business where policy is supposed to be involved. For this, the motioners have no proof, even though they are writing on the basis of this amendment." The latest data show that the study, which was the basis for the new student diet system, was the product of a fraud that favoured one provider." If that's the case, press charges. Not the amendment, please! You're here accusing with hard words, but you have no proof of that. You are probably referring to the facts that only one medium launches, the medium that persists in refusing to publish the denials, does not want to publish the true facts and does not take into account the findings that come from the investigative commission regarding the target of your ongoing problem-solving of certain transactions. Mr Golobič is not involved at all, nor is he the owner or co-owner of Margenta, which you mention here several times. About the phone numbers themselves. You mentioned earlier the possibility of misuse of such data and mobile phone numbers. Such abuse has been taking place for years. And your client is not immune to such abuse. I recall the previous election campaign, where a lot of people received SDS messages, vote for SDS. And I don't know what kind of news you've actually come to express to all the voters and voters of your wish. Not to mention student protests. You mentioned the abuse of lists of numbers and the protest that became a violent protest, but let's not forget that the only politician who expressed a certain understanding of those protests immediately after the end of the violence was the SDS champion. The only politician who did not immediately condemn violence but expressed his full understanding and urged the Government to behave differently to the student population, which is of course legitimate. But at that point, it would be better if politics were united in condemning violence. That, by the way. But the fact is that we are talking about an amendment that, in terms of so conceptually and globally and globally, is reasonable, but only in this law, after the phones have already used part of the student population, say in Primorskie, such a way of paying or making reservations, has already ordered a fact. In short, every day we are faced with the possibility and also sometimes the obligation to provide our data, whether it is a visa or an electronic payment or a bank transaction. In short, please, where do you live?Oh, my God! Unfortunately, we live in an era of technology that not only allows us to do so, but sometimes forces us to do so. That is why I see no issue if this law and this technological solution are understood in the context of the entire so-called technological solutions of today. But if it's just to question one political option and prove that that policy option is involved in some business, I think you've hit the pass. We have an investigative committee that has already defied all your clues and accusations. We have institutions like the anti-corruption commission that checked this business and found no corruption elements. And you refer to facts that are supposed to be based on suspicion that abuse may occur. Of course I won't support this amendment. I don't think it's necessary. Of course, there would be a need for a debate, a comprehensive debate on the degree of technological interference in the sphere of freedom and privacy of every individual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We had just heard the assumption that the amendment to Article 3 should be tabled. But I will not assume why the new bill requires an amendment to Article 3 but I will just ask. Why is the first paragraph of Article 3, where it says, "in the first paragraph of Article 8a, the text of the address, mobile phone number, e-mail address shall be added for the word EMHO"? Why? I found the answer on the page that says the explanation of the articles. The explanation is as follows: "All three data are urgently needed, due to a new way of implementing the student subsidised diet system based on identification with mobile telephone devices and electronic and physical communication with students". I don't believe today's enough to identify a cell phone. I don't believe it, and it can't be. The identification cannot be an e-mail and an e-mail address. I'm gonna go across the border with this logic, and I'm gonna show you my phone number. So why this amendment in Article 3? He's got a goal, though. And he says in the following explanation, "because administrative barriers are being reduced". But because it says in explanation that it's an identification with a mobile phone, an electronic and physical communication with students, physically speaking, it means that we're keeping the 8th article, and I've read it, that's the original article. We retain all the content that has been implemented under still applicable Article 8a, which states: "The contractor shall keep, for the purpose of implementing student food subsidies, a record of the beneficiaries of the subsidy of the student diet, comprising: personal name, EMŠO, registration number, method of study, data on the study programme, period of entitlement to subsidisation, number of meals..." and so on. So, we keep this, we add an amendment to Article 3, it's still a mobile phone, it's an e-mail address, and I don't know what else, but the explanation says that this is absolutely necessary because of the new management and the reduction of administrative procedures. So if I add three to five, it's eight. I would understand if, from Article 8a, the contents were reduced, taken away and replaced by these I.D.s and e-mails. Without suspicion, without politics, and precisely Article 3 and the amendment. Now tell me how someone can convince me why a change of law in Article 3, why a mobile phone as an identification, why e-mail as an identification. Well, that's it. I mean, I don't understand. It is normal for a person to state his name, surname, registration number, status, as described in the original Article 8.a. It's perfectly normal, because we're human, because we're not machines. Cell phone and e-mail address aren't my I.D. And what else can a person think of as being behind it, without names. There's something behind it. I really don't understand. If I were a student, if I applied, I would tell you who I am, who I am in college, what I study, what my data is, the EMHO and the student diet is arranged for me. Am I really so cool that I have to go on the phone right now, or that I can get on the phone, and I can check in, and they know by email and by phone that it's me, and that I'm going to have some food and I don't know what else to do. And that's why they break spears, and in the end, we don't even talk about the essence. We're not even talking about the point, so we can all be ashamed. Nor is it about student diet, what is it, who can receive it, what is the price to receive it, and why this student needs it. Not a word about that. Not a word! How many hungry students are there, why the situation is the way it is, not him. And don't tell me that there are no such or different interests for this change in Article 3. No one's gonna convince me they didn't. They should if they really benefit from the student diet and students. Let them be! But the cell phone and the e-mail address won't help, and they never did. And problems will still arise. Therefore, I will support the amendment to Article 3 because I am convinced that Article 8a, as it is, has provided sufficient and record for the regulated diet of students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss Article 3? Mr. Györek, please. Just this. I would like to point out that the right to debate also has the right of the Government, as well as the proposer, to focus on the content that is in the debate, not in the end for everything. Mr. Györek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. I really felt a little embarrassed because I had previously had the position of our party, but I was not personally familiar with certain circumstances and information that I had received today in this debate. And I feel stupid because it looks like I'm gonna have to change my mind. In part, he explained the matter to his colleague, Barovic, and also based ours now, I am sure, on reasonable reservations and concerns about the proposed law or changes to the law. We will, of course, support the SDS amendment in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group because they convinced me with information and with some data and experience show that unfortunately in this Slovenian society it is becoming such and similar, to say that thievery is already a practice. And that suspicion alone is enough to make us fear that it will come to this. I therefore believe that any, including the slightest, possibility of abuse of the legal provisions around any law must be prevented and resisted at every step of the way. I didn't know there was so much confusion about the invitation to tender. If this is true, or if it is partly true, all of these dubs, all of these suspicions, then of course I am changing my position and the position of the entire Slovenian National Party Group and I will support the amendment. Unless the amendment is adopted, we will vote against the proposed law or amendments to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Jury, on behalf of the proposer, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u56	Thank you again very much for your word. It is difficult or impossible to respond to certain insinuations and half-truths that have been cited as reasons for opposition, on the basis of reasons or later as support for the proposed amendment. I mean, since these things are going to the National Investigation Office or the Telecommunications Agency, I don't see the connection between these matters anymore. But perhaps as an interesting story, I can tell you what I was facing last week when one of the prominent representatives of one of the young men explained to me the masterplan behind this law, which is being discussed here today. By 2007, when the previous government had proposed and this National Assembly had adopted a law imposing a change in the system, then a non-political citizen, Gregor Golobič, decided and saw his opportunity here. He's the one who gave me this completely serious explanation. Now, I'm going to be politically activated, we're going to set up a client, really, and in the next term, I'm going to be the Minister of Higher Education to carry out this project. The only problem is that the story is basically ridiculous, even more so because the Ministry of Higher Education has nothing to do with it, but the Ministry of Labour. But now more seriously, perhaps we should try to respond to the specific things that have been said here and that can be completely credible, based on data, rejected. First of all, a lot of criticism was already in the opinions of the parliamentary groups and also now on the basis of the basic bill. In particular, you referred to opinions submitted by the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government or the Information Commissioners. Here I would like to stress what was finally confirmed by all those who have expressed their views that these opinions have been taken into account and that these things, which have been perceived as shortcomings, have been resolved. So we can be very specific here. The information officer shall discuss the inconsistencies, inconsistencies between these acts, laws, regulations and instructions. And here it is, if these instructions were still in force today, this discrepancy would be. But these instructions have not been in force for years, and there is no such disharmony. The law and the rules are perfectly harmonised. Come in. Speaking of technological neutrality, we're no longer talking about three additional data. The address was completely deleted on the basis of opinions and is now optional, telephone number or e-mail address, not telephone number and e-mail address. It is said, and whoever does not want to give it, but can also choose a card and do not have to give it to him. This shall be ensured if an individual so decides not to provide this information. Come in. I would like to stress that the legislation governing the collection and processing of personal data is very good, very clear and very clear in Slovenia. It specifically states that if a violation occurs, what is the responsibility of the person who has violated this law? I think that this will be regulated, including the decisions of the information officer show that they ensure that these provisions are respected. The only alternative is to simply prevent the collection of any data everywhere and that this could actually be a reason to support this amendment. So far, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah. Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u58	Thank you for saying that again. My colleagues have asked me to file charges. Complaints have already been made. There's no point in giving them to us. However, those who have received complaints need to make a statement about these matters. From this point of view, I mentioned the criminal police, the Office for the Protection of Competition and others. It is clear to me that this is a law that belongs to the Ministry of Labour and not the Ministry of Higher Education. If you'd listened to everything I said, then it's clear what I was going to say. We can talk mainly about political responsibility, this is our task and criminal responsibility is identified by other bodies we have in this country. And everyone has to do their job, and that'll be fine. He also stated that the Council on Channel A, or the media that published that it was a false survey, also asked the student organisation who referred to it as the head of the survey, and he denied that the data had been collected or was clear in his replies that they had not done so by order of the student organisation or, I will not be able to summarise everything because he did not have this clip here, but, in short, if the student organisation with the dementias could not come to the television, the survey with all the analyses and data on which they introduced it could provide us. But it's not that hard to get to us. We often meet students, they always know how to find us when they need us. To say that all the key points and matters were involved will not be entirely true. I have said that the Commissioner has proposed, and this should be taken into account by the Ministry, at my discretion, in its integrated audit, in the area of student food subsidies, and the Ministry could, during the course of the proceedings of this matter, carry out and come up with some credible data. As it is said, if the law on subsidising student nutrition and then the rules on subsidisation need to be supplemented and amended, it is a matter for the Government to do, and that is why we have it. Not now that someone's saving and someone's coming up with one proposal and doing it their way. The young forum proposed an e-bon a while ago and then advocated this option, which would really be cheaper. Now, as I said, seven cents from each transaction will earn Margenta. We're helping the economy, nice, but why we're not helping all the economy, but only the one that's connected to Minister Golobic. In short, once again, I will support our amendment and we will not fully support the law, because we believe that too many things are unclear and should be clarified before decisions are made, both by the Ministry and by all the competent authorities already mentioned in this country and identify possible criminal responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u60	I listened very carefully to the representative of the State Council. The law is a very strict, correct, rigorous content for me. The representative of the National Council said it was an address, a cell phone number or an e-mail address. The law contains an address, a number, a comma, a mobile phone, an electronic address, a comma. It means listing and listing in the law is a bond or obligation. So, I would like to know where he is or where he is, if, as a member of the National Assembly as a Member, I decide to decide on the correct and strict content that I have before me. Next thing you know, Mr. State Council representative worked, but whoever doesn't want to use or transmit a mobile phone or an electronic address doesn't have to do that. It doesn't say anywhere, not in Article 3, or in Article 8a. Article 3, as corrected by the representative, "if he does not want to", does not say anywhere, here is the bond, must, not "if he does not want to". If it's as you claim, then let it be written down somewhere that if I decide to or if I decide to or against the law, that I will at least know what I've decided, not then that they'll point to me if you take what you've accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you. The Dark Digger first came forward, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u62	I would like to point out here that the Ministry is responsible for the Law on Student Food Subsidisation and that the main objective of the Ministry is to ensure transparency, the review of the spending of money, the public money we are spending on subsidised student diets, and that is why it has also supported, on a proposal from the Ministry of Government, the amendment of this law because, as I have already said at the beginning of 2007, the amendment of this law was supported by the Government because, as I have already said in the beginning of 2007 and then, by law, this invitation to tender and these conditions was actually given to the student organisation. As regards the invitation to tender itself, the invitation to tender was also examined by the Anti-Corruption Office and found nothing. On the basis of the discussion, which took place mainly in 2009, we, too, sent our inspection and control service to the Ministry to verify the call itself. This service has found no major irregularities, but I must point out that, on the basis of the opinion of Mr Trpin, the student organisation should also not have a public authority to implement, so it was not necessary to lead the tenders in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, but nevertheless we acted in accordance with our competences and the student organisation was autonomously competent and, as such, responsible for all. In part of our competence, we have exercised control and once again stress that it is important, above all, that electronics be carried out, that process completes, in particular because we will have a more transparent use of public funds, what is the primary and key purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Jury.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that again. I will only try two things briefly, and I will quote that it will indeed be clear, "at the end of the day, the information officer proposes an integrated revision of the rules on student nutrition subsidies which are contrary to the proposed change". In contrast, as previously stated, laws and regulations on one side and instructions on the other. These guidelines have not been in force for years, this is not the case, this revision is not necessary because there is no contradiction. That's point one. In point 2, Mr Barovic is only possible for a short period of time. The law lays the groundwork for the contractor to collect this information. Here is the de facto or inside, we need to look at the completed bill with the amendments of the committee, the EMHO branch, then the mobile phone number or the electronic address, the address is not even anymore, and then again lists which. I'd like to draw attention to something else that might be a little clearer for us. What about those who don't have a phone or an e-mail address? We're not going to force them to buy, they're not going to have, but with a credit card, they're going to normally eat student-subsidized food. On the other hand, they will be deprived of the ratings brought by the phone or for the things offered by the portal to which they will be accessed by an electronic address. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm sure you remember when we legalized the car sticker years ago. This marriage is a pure copy, a plagiarism of that marriage. When a compulsory electronic payment is introduced, it shall be introduced as an operator of the label. So this is going to get 7 cents from each transaction. Given that the meals are the same, the subsidy is the same, the student who will pay the meal will receive a 7 cent lower grant for the student diet. This is a direct consequence of this law. Students, those who are users of the student food subsidy will now have to provide 7 cents from this subsidy to the one who will perform or supervise this service. This deal was obtained by Margenta, a gentleman who is proposing a law, who was on the committee, who has chosen, participated in the selection of the contractor, and has now drafted a law that legitimizes this label. Interesting. Interesting. I believe that such a case in the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism has not yet been the case, that the person who chose the contractor would still be involved in the law, wrote what this law must contain or what information must be obtained so that this law can be physically implemented. Interestingly, and interestingly enough, all of these data is written — where he studies, studies, and study programs, but only an evaluation of individual exams and a number of shoes is missing. All data will now be made available to this operator. Nowhere in the law is it regulated: the length of data storage, whether it is only for the duration of the study or may be 10 years after that. Listen, we know stories about how to deal with archives and so on. And I must say that you are very idealistic, both by the Ministry and by those who wrote this, as far as data abuse is concerned. Not even things that are transparently clear, which every ordinary citizen sees anywhere, are capable of regulating and sanctioning inspection. Let's say we're at headquarters. Everyone sees that it is an excessive burden on workers to abuse working time, misuse of payments, abuse of housing conditions and so on, but this government is not able to organise systems, let alone one such system, where there is actually a conflict of interest and the legalization of this conflict. That's interesting. And interestingly enough, no one has any bad conscience in this area — not the Ministry, not the Government, not the proposer. Students will, however, pay for this great advance from what the State provides them with a subsidy. Will the state pay 7 cents in this case? He won't. That's what you say, the one who's gonna pay electronically, and that's the student. And I don't understand how easy it is for the National Assembly to get into some kind of channel, some way when it has a mouthful of social talk, aiding subsidies, and so on. On the other hand, those who need it most – these are social groups that have limited incomes and students are certainly among them, especially those who come from rural areas – and these will pay some gentlemen who have been chosen, 7 cents from each meal they eat. Seven cents. And it is no coincidence that this company that has been chosen will only grow three or four times the annual turnover. Three or four times this company will grow annual traffic only because of the introduction of this system. That's what we're legitimizing. And I wonder what the attitude of those who are so socially sensitive is. If this is not the case with the Lobby Act, respected colleagues, then let us ask ourselves in which cases the Lobby Law is involved. Typical lobbyist law - the law of the label, the law of the company's business outcome in this area, in advance clearly, with so many and so many meals times 7 cents, the business outcome for this activity is completely predictable, calculating. You've legitimized it. Margento, who will provide this service, has legal revenue in this area. Like another company in New City, it was legal to get 5.6 million for a car insurance sticker. That's when you legalized it. And now we are legislating exactly the same in this area. I think we should ask ourselves in the National Assembly whether we can do this at the expense of someone else to collect 7 cents from the entire population, I don't know, 50,000 students times 200 or 150 meals and give it to someone to have a good business outcome. These are not operating costs in this area because they certainly do not do so with a zero result. Students will pay not only the cost of services but also the profit of the service. Those who provide this service will have a net business outcome which will be very positive. I wonder whether it is possible for me in the area of regulating social relations, but it is the Ministry of Labour which is particularly responsible for this and can give me a landing and a position to legislate profitable business in this area from the student fund, student scholarships, student subsidies and so on. It's legal money laundering. This is the legal sealing of students and so on. I think that all those who are so excited about this system, like Mr Kek and some who will probably have the full arsenal here, will be able to send this invitation to the students for the Rock Islander and so on, to get there. That's the set, that's the data fund, that's it. And that's why he's so excited and he's still out there somewhere, in that group that's close to this Ultra and Magenti system and so on. In short, I propose that this amendment be adopted, that is just one approximation, but the law must be rejected for all these reasons that I have said. The law has to be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Mr Tanko is a master at mixing things together, telling and giving people the impression that this is all connected together, let a company in New City, these stickers, just say it vaguely. It was Mirage, the business "got" by Mirko Bandelj, and the company was cashing. What other people in the New City have nothing to do with it, or what our ministers have nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Jury spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd just like to explain this part about costs, because there's been a rumor that there's going to be a new cost. However, on the one hand, this costs 7 cents, but at the expense of this cost, more other costs are deducted, directly, these are the costs of the paper being used today, the costs of printing, the costs of reading this paper and the costs of total support in order to be able to issue this paper at all. I think it's about 30 locations in Slovenia where 60 students nonstop working and printing [[... a sign for the end of the debate.]] This time is also valuable. On the other hand, the costs of the new system will be incomparably lower than the costs of the system to be implemented. It's on a direct level. Indirectly, however, with certain other solutions in the law, I believe that there will also be a reduction in the possibility of abuse due to, say, a line exchange with the Department of Health Insurance and, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u71	Mr. Jury, time's up. I'm sorry. Mr. Franzege has called.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u72	It is very interesting, in what way, in fact, from the relatively simple solutions that need to be accompanied by appropriate legislative changes, if we are to implement a new system of system management, a new system that is supposed to bring less abuse and greater transparency of the system, to what sort of phantom stories we always come up in the National Assembly. And a message to those who see in this legislation corruption, the legalisation of the business results of related companies and so on, I would like to report that we have the institutions responsible for this in this country. And I recommend that we do not criminalise every single point that we consider in the National Assembly. She has already told the Commission about this in order to prevent corruption. Finally, you have, I mean, this subject as well, or this topic is one of the derivatives of your investigative commissions, including the possibility of thoroughly exploring these things and then discussing the results of such criminalization of different subjects. We have a constitutional system, and after this constitutional system, different people also have the opportunity to propose laws or institutions. In this case, it is the Council of State, where the representative of the proposer is the Council of State. As a member of the system, as director of one of the student organisations, he knows exactly how this system works. I would like to say that it is possible for people in the Ministry to be one of the best knowledgeers of this regime and the implementation of the system in practice. And I propose that we do not here object to our constitutional order, that he has also given the Council of State this opportunity to be a bill-maker. And in this respect, it seems to me that the added value is that those who are directly involved in this system, this is the Student Organisation of Slovenia, based on the legislation in force, not on the law we are enacting today, those who are first interested in improving the system. We've read a lot about selecting an artist in the media. I don't have a pre-created opinion here, I don't feel competent, we have a competent institution to tell here. Another time. There is no doubt that students are at the moment the population in which the eyes of the public are fixed because of other systemic changes and where the views of the Government and the Student Organisation are not as uniform as they are in this law. The Secretary of State has already made it clear that things are actually going hand in hand, that the Government has also properly coordinated this law with the proponents and that there are therefore no major open issues. With regard to the suggestions on what the law actually says in relation to Mr Barovic's debate, it is once again worth noting that the amended proposal of the law, after being addressed by his mother's working body, is very clear in Article 3 what we are collecting under the new system. And I'm glad that there's been an appropriate addition here, that there's no dilemma here. And there we see that an alternative version is selected, which means a mobile phone number or an e-mail address. We understand, however, that it is necessary to bring the system to a higher technological level – and I guarantee that there will be virtually no student who will not choose the option of paying and billing via the mobile phone, even though this law provides an alternative, in line with the recommendations made by the public information officer. In this respect, it would be right to deal with the laws that we are considering in accordance with what these laws provide for. I think it is a minor change in the system, which will allow for a major and positive change in the functioning of the system. And I say that in full faith, unrelated to ultras and all the others who are involved in the potential operation of this system. I don't think that's the subject of this law either. However, if they hold on to the indications that you so like to speak about in the National Assembly, I recommend that you strengthen the work of the investigative commissions that you have in your hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can see three hands, but it's best if I open the applications. Please sign in. Mr. Pojibich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u74	Dear Vice President! First of all, I must say that this amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party will be supported and, of course, I will absolutely reject the proposed law. I cannot and in no way do I understand, especially here I must say, the Group of the Social Democrats. After what my fellow Member and the leader of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, Jože Tanko, said, it was very clear where this bill was going. And those who know Mr Frangež and Mr Žuro and the connections that run here between these people can be very clear to them how and why these people in this way are so vehemently advocating this bill. Those who know these connections may know that. And this marriage. You know for yourself that the invitation to tender was extremely problematic. The invitation to tender was drawn up exclusively for one company and no one else could apply for this invitation to tender. And here, the officer writes Tomaž Frelih, Director of Systems in Company Four, "with all the expertise I claim that no company in the world can apply to such an invitation, except Ultra and her subsidiaries". If this is not a difficult enough argument, the argument to understand that this is a game in the background that is not for the benefit of this country, citizens and citizens, and even less for the benefit of students. After the previous marriage, these student certificates were printed and all these things were printed. Who printed them? The student organization and all the money stayed with the student organization. Now this money, that is the cents that the leader of the parliamentary group was talking about, goes ahead, legally in the pocket of this company, which we are talking about today, which is, of course, in the mercy of the Higher Education Minister, Mr Golobic. And if it isn't, look at this, please, Mr Kek, don't say things you can't convince us about, because you know exactly that we are telling the truth, and this time it's not a political issue, this is something that is unacceptable, unacceptable and absolutely Parliament cannot accept such a law, because there are so many indicators in the back that there are a whole bunch of such and other non-transparent things that are to the detriment of these citizens and citizens and all those who contribute to the fact that we have money in the budget from which these things are financed. And once again, it's unacceptable and incomprehensible. Mr Kontic, the leader of the Group of Social Democrats, is also sitting here among us. Look, Mr Kontic, I am sure that you, as the leader of the Group of Members, understand what this law is all about. And if you understand, I am sure you cannot allow such a law to be supported in any way, regardless of whether some Members of your parliamentary group are involved in the background. All those who tried to prove that there was a possibility of corruption in the background of this law were trying to alert all of us Members to the fact that such a law was unacceptable and that it could not be adopted in this House. Can not get message: %s %s And once again, this law is not about the left, right, middle or any other party, but it is only about protecting the interests of this country. And the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is the institution that must do just that all decisions taken here must be taken in the interest of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. But certainly not in the interest of individual political Februaryes, but especially those who sit in this Chamber today and are so beautiful, I will say, smile at me now here, I mean here at Mr Jurassic. Sir, I don't think this cynical smile is going to do you much good, believe me, because it's unfair, especially incorrect of you. In this National Assembly, every Member has the right to say how he sees things and especially when he feels that things are going in the wrong direction and that they are going to the detriment of Slovenian taxpayers. This decision to adopt this law is going in this direction. Because only one company could participate in the call, this is the greatest absurdity I have ever heard, and also the leader of the parliamentary group has made it very clear that we have not adopted such a bill in the National Assembly. And of course I'm sure of that, too. And even when you spoke to Mr. Jury, what about those students who don't have a phone? Does this not mean that the law does not apply to them? How such a law can be written, and this law is, in my opinion and certainly, also at the price of the Slovenian Democratic Party, discriminatory towards those who do not have a telephone. How can we legalize something if not all those who should, namely those who are involved in this matter, do not have a condition for us to participate in the adoption of this law. This is discrimination, and it's unacceptable. It is unacceptable that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs authorises discrimination at all. We keep saying that we have to do everything we can to eliminate discrimination, that all people, citizens and citizens will have the same rights. This time I see that some things are simply overlooked and therefore unacceptable. Therefore, there is no way I can support such a marriage. However, I am counting, of course, on the Social Democrats to consider and make a decision here, as they always like to say very clearly, that they want us all to be equal in this country and that discrimination is not taken into account, and here we see that discrimination is included.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Frangež made contact with the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u76	Everyone in the National Assembly has the right to speak in this Chamber, whatever he thinks, and it is in his interest not to speak nonsense. Well, first of all, it's about the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, Mr Žuro and I were very well involved when I was active at the Student Organisation, and I think that this was a time when the Student Organization, mainly in Maribor, democratized its system and also in the eyes of students following public opinion research conducted by the Faculty of Education of the University of Maribor, significantly improved its reputation and ratings among the student population. Moreover, at that time we adopted a new student constitution, which placed funding and supervision of the student organisation's financial resources as a democratic control. However, I agree with all those who think that we need to strengthen control here in advance. I am not supported by arguments that the funding of the Student Organisation is something beyond public control. These funds, which we are talking about today, for the implementation of the student diet system, are subject to at least double checks at all times. First of all, it is the control of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, as well as the one who is monitoring the implementation of the system. It's the first instance of control. Secondly, even the Court of Auditors in this segment, when it comes to clear budgetary resources, has at any time the possibility of verifying the consistency and legality of the use of funds. In view of all that some people explain about this law, I don't know, I obviously don't have the right proposal for a law because this complementary bill adopted by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and the disabled has five articles, and I'm sorry, there are more articles, up to number 5, there are two more articles in between, there are seven articles. And I really can't read between the lines all of what some here see. I can't read it, Mr. Pojbich. Show me without insinuations that I love very much, I will say, otherwise you have the mood and, I will say, share here with the entire Slovenian public, without any weighty basis for what you claim. The procedures carried out on the website of the Student Organisation of Slovenia have been verified by the Commission to prevent corruption. It's not my intention to defend them, not at all. Let the competent institutes determine how these procedures have been carried out. I repeat to the competent institutes to determine how these procedures have been carried out. In the meantime, I suggest, but if you have all this information, give me the right information, I will also say, complaints at the competent institutes. By the way, the student organisation led by Mr. Jura, among other things [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u77	Mr. Frangež, time for the replica has run out.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u78	Just finishing the sentence – he gave me a nice banner on the Maribor Calvary: "Frange, you betrayed us!" The last thing I want is to defend the student organization with some special affection for anyone. However, I think it is a matter of such routine changes to the law that such major debates in the National Assembly are absolutely unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Kek also made contact with the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. My friend Pojbich said I was not telling the truth. You're telling the truth, Mr. Pojbich, and you know you're telling the truth. Gregor Golobič is not a co-owner of Magenta. And this law is not the law of the Ministry of Higher Education, but the law of the Ministry of Labour. If you look, the ladies are from the Ministry of Labour or belong to the Ministry of Labour, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you. Mrs. Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, again. I asked Minister Svetlik a question on the implementation of the subsidised student diet last October. He told me they'd already switched to an electronics system in Primorsk. As far as I know, the system's not working very well, and we'd expect some analysis from the Ministry, so I hear you're monitoring it. It's supposed to collapse or die a few times at home. So it would be nice if you could tell us how it works. The Minister also said that in May 2010 all students will be transferred to this system. As far as I know, that doesn't work either. You'll fix me if I'm wrong. To favour a telephone number, however, it seems most likely that it is €15 for those students who really have a chance to make a decision on the card. Why is it not a free card or at a slightly more affordable price? To probably make it easier for students to decide on the phone option, because it is cheaper for them. And don't say we're here against the students and we want to do something. If you just want him to make a decision between variant A and B, you give B a much more expensive option, and he'll definitely decide A. But that's not fair. Given that the government has some time left, I hope to get those answers as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thank you. Mrs Kopač Dark also spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. I would also like to separate two things, the call for proposals, the competences of the SOS and the law which provides for the possibility of carrying out electronics, which was determined and agreed in 2007. This is the case, as I said earlier, that the Ministry's key objective is to make public spending more transparent. This will be achieved at the expense of electronicisation and exchange of databases. The issue of calls and procedures is within the competence of the Student Organisation of Slovenia, where the Anti-Corruption Office reviewed and found that there was no corruption in this call. I have said that the Ministry has also sent, in accordance with its competences, and there has been no irregularity in accordance with those segments that we have the ability to control. But what we wanted all along and in open dialogue with the Student Organisation is the desire and pressure to stick to the timelines that have been agreed upon in the past. We're finding that the timeline wasn't that it was being repaired. And that is how today’s report shows that he was with 1. 4. 2010 test carried out in the field of the University of Primorsk. 17. 5. The whole of Primorska is supposed to be electronic, so that students of the University of Primorska access this, with 1. Seven. 2010 is intended to move across the whole area. This is our jurisdiction; we have always appealed to the SOS that they must do so in accordance with the law which has set the deadline for them. However, as far as the procedures are concerned, this is a matter for the authorities responsible in this country. And if we go back to doing some corruption with this law, it's really not true, because, as has already been said, all of these procedures are actually ongoing, even without this change of law. So at the University of Primorsk, students signed a statement and allowed their mobile phones to be used. Among other things, the report shows that only less than 1% decided on the card that it was a large majority for mobile phones. But it's important. We will also ask the SOS to report on what is happening, what were the mistakes, so that we are here in this communication, but the powers are clearly demarcated. We also, when this proposal came and the initiative came to ask the information officer what the opinion on the first proposal was, we supported the proposal and, in essence, the proposed article is now so supplemented that it makes it impossible to clearly contradict such a way, the purpose of using the data that can be obtained, the way of storage, and also the fact that an individual may at any time request or 30 days after exercising the right to subsidised food, requires the deletion of its data from the store. Thus, this proportionality is between using his personal data and his ability to demand annihilation. So, I think that, from this point of view, the law is well complemented and, as it is now, in this form, absolutely acceptable and ensures the protection of basic personal data. However, if abuse occurs, we have institutions in this country that are responsible and must carry out their procedures. The law, as it is, is very simple, even in addition to the article we are now talking about, is important in that it also complements some mistakes that have been made in the past, in particular that unfortunately it has not been made clear that pensioners are not entitled to subsidisation of student nutrition, you will not believe that such abuses also occur to us because of the system that exists today, through printed vouchers, where it has already been explained that this system, including the one that is today, costs a lot and that the cost of this system maintenance is actually passed on to students and that it will now be cheaper with this electronicisation. However, once again, I would like to stress the need to separate what the law proposes on the one hand, where the protection of personal data rights is strongly exposed and, on the other hand, the very course of the call and the deal you mentioned. There's no connection here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about Article 3 and the amendment to this article? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and move on to Article 4a and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. This concludes the debate. Amendments will be decided on Friday, 18th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 6. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 18th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. At the same time, I inform you that the 15th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly will begin at 3 p.m.
