ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-30.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 30th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Melita Župevc, Andreja Črnak Meglič, Tsvetka Zalokar Orazem, Anton Anderlič, Silven Majhenič, Anton Kolarič, Anton Kampus, Branko Marinič, Roberto Battelli, Miran Jerič, mag. Stefan Tisel, Rudolf Petan, Franci Kek and Alexander Zorn. I invited the President of the Government, Borut Pahor, Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz Križanič and the other representatives of the Government. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 30th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the 5 October 2010 meeting. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. The vote is under way. Only 36 Members and Members are present. The vote has failed, so we will repeat the vote. We are going back to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. 35 Members and Members of Parliament are present. I'm guessing the assembly isn't concluded, so I'm interrupting it in 10 minutes. We will continue with the new vote at 14.12.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-30.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjourned session. We are moving on to the third vote on the agenda. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 60 Members and Members present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 30th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item, this is for the submission of the 2011-2012 budget memorandum, the proposal to amend the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. We are moving to the first part of the consideration and adoption of the 2011 Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the 2012 Draft Budget of the Republic of Slovenia in the National Assembly. Pursuant to Article 156, paragraph 3, and Article 166, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the Government and the Minister of Finance will present a budget memorandum, a proposal for amendments to the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and a draft budget for the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. There is no debate on this presentation. I give the floor to Prime Minister Borut Pahor to present these budgetary documents. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-30.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The proposals for both budgets are documents of the immediate stabilisation of public finances and the creation of conditions for progress in the early economic recovery and the achievement of the objectives we have set ourselves. To remember later, from the first day of this government's mandate, we have two objectives: to strengthen competitiveness and social cohesion. This would mean that after the worst crisis since World War II, Slovenia will be more powerful than the community, that not one layer, one generation and one elite will be privileged and the other deprived, but that we will all succeed as communities. Of course, public financial discipline is essential for this stabilisation to succeed. One of the important criteria in our home and among our partners in Europe is to close the budget deficit below 3% of GDP by 2013. On the contrary – and I ask that no one accept this as a threat because it is not, but as a necessary warning that we will be disciplined – we are facing sanctions, as are all other countries that will not succeed. Before continuing, I would like to tell you, as Prime Minister of the Government, that I am talking to my colleagues about their situation, which is just as difficult, about their problems and their failures, both their successes and their failures. Slovenia is doing relatively well. All leaders would like everything to be better, but one day the modern world is still in a period of instability. The worst is behind us, both globally and nationally, but to have a firm assurance that the path of economic recovery will be without any problems, no one can provide this assurance today. Most importantly, as much as we can depend on the recovery of others, much is in our hands — that we also preserve what we can achieve as strong pillars of a stable future. The draft budgets are in line with the exit strategy of Slovenia. We are among the countries that started the first with the implementation of the exit strategy, and if you look at the traffic light, you will see that the government has finally eliminated something that was otherwise characteristic of Slovenian policy, and this is an implementation deficit. What we have set out to decide and enforce, we decide and we enforce. If this is also a matter of this high house – and most of it is – I would like to thank you for having already adopted a third of the proposals and laws that form part of the exit strategy. In this respect, we are among the better Member States of the European Union in terms of the exit strategy. They are also those who have not yet embarked on the exit strategies, insisting on fiscal aid, without which they cannot live at all at this moment. We do not have to do this and are in this sense in favour of seeing and caring for it. In line with the Slovenian exit strategy adopted this February, in line with the combination of economic policy measures and structural reforms – which is now the objective of the proposals of both budget documents – the Government wants to strengthen the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. If I have to make a decision today with my colleagues and colleagues, as I had to decide at the beginning of my mandate, what I have to do when a sudden fall in gross domestic product has occurred due to the collapse of financial markets, after the economic and social crises, I would like to tell you that I would do the same. First and foremost, Slovenia, as a small and open society, would provide social security. Not because of social peace, but because the severe deterioration of social conditions among people would create such a lack of confidence in the later needed changes so that no policy would be a part of it. We have abstained, and indeed we have increased by 44% the resources needed for social transfers, but this has been paid off. This has allowed us not to be without criticism, objections and doubts, but I think we are without fear, and this seems to me to be the most important thing Slovenia has. I am not saying that he has excessive optimism and empty faith, but there is no fear that we have undertaken important structural reforms without fear. This does not apply to all countries, but to Slovenia. That's a great achievement. Since we have strengthened social cohesion, we can now work to strengthen competitiveness, and this is the job number 1 of the Slovenian government in the period 2011-2012. The objective we have set ourselves is to maintain the level of public debt below 45 % of gross domestic product. Therefore, one of these objectives is to reduce the budget deficit below 3%. Let me just say -- I don't know how much longer I'll have to go on -- that Slovenia, as far as public debt is concerned, is far below the average of the European Union countries, but what we have to worry about is the dynamics of the increase in this debt. In particular, after 2008, it was significantly larger and strengthened in the most difficult year of 2009. If we are to remain on this target, which I have stated, at a figure below 45% of GDP, then we must be extremely disciplined. What we will all need is an iron discipline that has its purpose and purpose, and this is to maintain and enforce this discipline of the Slovenian economy so that it can represent strong pillars of social cohesion. We will not increase the consolidation of public finances by increasing tax burdens, let this be made clear and loud. We're not going to increase the tax burden. If we want to achieve this – and any master who has ever dealt with public finances or not knows that if there is no substantial income in the wallet, even from the wallet, if he does not want to be in debt, he cannot give much more money – we will work with public money as carefully as each of us tries to work with his own money. Saving, investing smartly and thinking about the future. We achieve the budgetary targets by adapting expenditure to development priorities. The programme budget, which we are introducing, allows us, ladies and gentlemen, to put an end to programmes that will not achieve the objectives set — including these — over time, and we will stop financing them, thereby maintaining strictness in all policies, while public resources will be diverted to development and productive programmes. Public spending policies over the next 2 years are based on urgent interventions into the largest segments of public spending: firstly, in public sector wages, secondly, in pensions and thirdly, in transfers. Not to be forgotten later, ladies and gentlemen, all these measures are of a temporary nature and have a reasonable basis. Temporary natures because they are linked to GDP growth or greater creation in order to be able to do more without being indebted. These restrictive measures will be lifted as soon as we are able to raise the well-being of our people without risk of any responsibility for normal service of budgetary spending. The well-being of our people, ladies and gentlemen, did not fall in 2009 and 2010 as much as the economic and financial crisis claimed. This is the government with the instruments that I have already mentioned. However, since this cannot last forever, we must now act wisely and, to the extent fair, I think that this is an important category, divide these burdens so that all layers, all generations will be adequately burdened by the crisis and that, as I said before, we can all, not just some, come out of the crisis without major shocks. Without these measures, without structural reforms, here I am also thinking of pension and health reform, public debt would increase from 0.75 to 1% per year. Between 2015 and 2017, we would have reached a limit of 60%, this is the European Union's magic border, public debt in GDP. Instead of developing, the budget money would be spent mainly on paying interest on debts. We have cases in the European Union when we are already watching this. Don't let it happen that the probative Slovenians get into this situation. We have reacted to the crisis with fiscal stimuli, like all other countries, and we have found early enough where the restrictions are, if we do not want to be in debt to ourselves and to the next generation beyond our ability to keep these fiscal stimuli within reasonable limits, and this is what we are doing for once. We are in a situation where the seed we planted at the time of the greatest crisis has risen. Now it is very important that we all water this seed with a very delicate, proper dose to raise and produce fruit. But this, on the one hand, will require iron discipline, on the other hand, one delicateness, the ability to engage in social dialogue, to reach compromises and to understand why we are doing this. Because we're not doing this because of me, my colleagues, because of you, but because of those who elected us and gave us a mandate. We're doing in common good. Only for illustration, if the government did not take action to limit wages in the public sector in these days, so that spending of at least €4 billion by 2012 would increase by half billion, we cannot replace this half billion, except with debt, but be careful, we would be obliged to carry out the normal obligations of the state. That's impossible. We can be responsible for investments or similar things that will bring added value in the medium or long term. In the short term, however, we can commit ourselves to a slight mitigation of the crisis only in the short term. We did it, and I'm not sorry. If I were to return to the beginning of the mandate today, I would repeat the same decision. You will recall my inaugural speech in 2008. I said, "for the crisis that awaits us," and no one has ever spoken so loudly about the crisis. I was even talking about economic instability. It is not the fault of the previous government, although it must be acknowledged that others as well as the Slovenian government, we also see the same problems in other governments. They believed that ad Calendas Graecas would last after the beginning of the new millennium. No one has ever been prepared after the first signs of collisions in the financial markets in the United States for the kind of crisis the world later experienced. Nevertheless, the money that was still running – although it was already getting smaller in 2008, from a quarter or a quarter less, which was a sign that something bad was promising us – was still spent on living better. All I'm saying is that you have to think about how hard we've had work last year and we still have it this year. But in this work it is getting better because it is accompanied by the results of our denials in the previous year, how difficult it was to run state-owned transactions in 2009, especially public finance, when it crashed GDP by 9% and more. In proportion to, say, 2 years earlier when it was about 7%. We need to learn something from this, all of us. Governments come and go, and the tradition of sound and cost-effective decision-making on public finances must be captured in this country, because it seems to me that it also corresponds to the character of our people. We are economic people, we want to work honestly for our money, and we want to live a decent life for a person. This applies to an individual and this must apply to the national community. What I said earlier is not the problem of the previous government, but the problem is that for some reason we have had to accelerate the growth of public debt is the problem that this government has to recognize in order to sanction it, and that is why the decisions that are proposed are. There was no way we could have avoided this more or less unless we violated social rights swiftly and rapidly. But even today, when some of us announce and are the fruit of thorough weightings, the subject of social dialogue and perhaps even agreements, when the crisis is actually seen, is asked whether it is really necessary to make cuts in the budget lines. The central objective, ladies and gentlemen, of the fiscal exit strategy is to limit the height of the debt up or determine its relative height at the current level and no more. This is a sustainable debt that will not cause us a headache at the end of this term, and not at the end of the next term, in which anyone will already be responsible for managing public finances in the coming years. The fiscal consolidation which is the basis of this debate, which we will witness next month, consists of 3 components. Firstly, by the end of this year we will withdraw all fiscal measures that have a direct impact on the economy. We are also in that third of the European countries that are at risk, calling it a reasonable risk. I said that without countries moving from fiscal stimulus, some remain there because otherwise they cannot survive this moment. But that is what will see a series of successes and failures within the European Union between countries, when these crises will, say, end in the next 3 or 4 years to the extent that we know it today. Today, there is a general forecast that economic growth should only be strengthened to a stronger 3% and more in 2013/2014. Budget revenues will thus amount to €8 billion and €284 million in 2011, which is only €248 million more than in 2010. Expenditure will amount to €10.20 billion, which is about a percentage of GDP, which is about €357 million less than in the approved budget for the same year and a real half percent less than this year. Therefore, compared to the 2011 budget previously adopted, all categories of expenditure other than investment expenditure and investment transfers are reduced. It's a terrible fiscal effort. We'll only succeed with iron discipline. With the 2010 state budget rebalancing, we have already reduced spending by 600 million euros, so this government is well aware of the problems of such decisions. However, we have taken these decisions at a time when GDP has plummeted, and this year we will end up with an estimated percentage of economic growth. Unemployment, with which the vast majority – including those who are slightly more successful in overcoming the crisis – has been a major problem and Slovenia has not had so many problems all the time. I'm not saying it wasn't a problem, but it was never the main problem. That seems important to me. Last but not least, as we know, the employment of the pillar of social security of an individual and his family. The fact that we have endured at 7% or something over 7% in the most difficult times and that unemployment is now falling as a problem, I consider this to be a major success of our policy. I'm not saying that no mistakes were made, that no opportunities were missed. After the battle it will be very easy to be a general and it will be necessary to make some inventory because it seems that this crisis will not be the last. If it's time, we'll talk about it a little later. An additional reduction of €600 million is also foreseen for 2011 and 2012. As the 2010 rebalancing largely interferes with the field of investment, we have focused the reduction of budgetary expenditure for the next 2 years exclusively on current consumption. The cost of goods and services will be reduced by 5 % in real terms, the amount of remuneration for a good 5%, the transfer to the pension fund will be reduced by a real percentage, the remuneration of individuals will be increased by a good percentage. In order to make this possible, the Government has, as you know, proposed an intervention law providing for a time freeze on the amount of all revenue achieved from public finances. We need to know because I believe that this will be said that there has been no increase in the number of employees in the public administration. In the public sector as a whole, we face this problem, but we can think that the problems caused by the crisis have arisen and we can only service them with additional jobs. Here and there we failed, despite efforts – here are the ministers who have worked to do so – with transfers within, we also needed new people. In order not to take too long to give the Minister of Finance the floor to clarify the individual items more precisely, I would like to say that among the priority policies, increasing the funding for higher education, science and technology and the information society by €219 million, for the labour market by €191 million, for entrepreneurship and competitiveness by €112 million, for education by €64 million and for transport by €59 million. If I repeat, the budget deficit will amount to € 1.69 billion or 4.5% in 2011 due to lower budgetary revenues. You will recall that last year, about a month later than October in an unpredictable time, I said: "The goal of the government policy I am leading is to have about 1% economic growth by the end of 2010." It was a very bold prediction, but it was possible under certain assumptions of that iron discipline I was talking about. Secondly, unemployment at 7% – this may be for Christmas this year – may even be lower and the budget deficit will not exceed 5%. If you are Members and Members of Parliament to adopt this budget, we will also achieve this third major objective. What do we achieve by adopting both budgets? We stabilize the economy, enable growth, enable new employment, thereby allow greater social cohesion and greater prosperity for our people. This one cannot be expected to grow year after year as it may have happened years earlier. There is no such thing anywhere in the modern world. The following years we will face economic growth between 1 and 3% and not significantly more. However, they are dynamic and growing economies that account for between 10% and 13% of economic growth. I spoke with some leaders last week in Brussels. What worries me as Prime Minister of a modern society that has developed a sense not only of economic progress but also of social cohesion and awareness that there are some limits to our integration into nature and that we need to keep it, is that our concept of sustainable development in their countries does not run into the same open ears as we do. Slovenia is a social state, Europe is a social society. These countries do not think in the same categories. In this global world, competitiveness and competition are now on their side. But if we have to choose — and that is our choice — we cannot choose, as someone said, the time we live in, but we can choose the way we live it. Then we must decide not only for a year or two, but perhaps for a whole generation, whether we will design a society that will at the same time take care of economic development, for social cohesion and for the preservation of the environment, or whether we will let go of any of these three elements of sustainable development in a fierce competition with competitors that this concept does not convince us. I wouldn't accept such a challenge. We must succeed as far as we can with such a concept. Everything else will mean leaving some of the dreams we dreamed of as Europeans and as Slovenians absolutely at risk. I can't imagine what the future of our children will look like. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, one thing I read in the speech by George Osborn, the British Finance Minister – I think so; you know I don't like to quote, but this time I couldn't resist this temptation – which he had, just as he would have had a little later speech by our finance minister, before his performance in the British Parliament. He said something that I don't think I can say better. He says, I quote, "In the last ten years we have seen that more money without reform is a recipe for failure and less money without reform would be a recipe for disaster," end of quote. I don't think there's any better way to say what the current government is proposing. Finally, if the President of the National Assembly lets me do this, let me draw an alternative between running and politics. When I went to practice yesterday and ran a longer distance, I was thinking that there was a parallel between running and solving, in particular, crisis periods in politics. You have a decision ahead of you all the time, when you will withdraw from the shelter of your rivals and risk your escape to victory. If you choose the wrong time, your ability, the ability of your competitors, you've lost. If you choose the right time, you win. This budget is this attempt to win this community. I would ask this Parliament to accept this risk that we may have a violent debate on this document, but it will eventually be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-30.ana.u4	Thank you very much. I give the text to the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič, for further presentation of the 2011-2012 budget memorandum, the draft amendments to the 2011 budget of the Republic of Slovenia and the 2012 draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-30.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, my fellow Members! Allow me to briefly present the structure of the planned budget in the following year. These are changes to the new 2012 budget, which is the first iteration, very austerity, as the Prime Minister stressed. Under what circumstances are we planning this budget? We are living in a post-crisis period, at a time when the crisis is no longer at its bottom, it is said that the economy is rising at global level. It rises because it is an adapted, coordinated and anti-recession policy, it also rises with us. Industrial production rises faster, gross domestic product slower and in the second year, not one and not the other will not fully reach the levels ahead of the crisis, but at the same time we have a relatively stable environment. We have established a relationship in which foreign trade is a genuine export of goods and services greater than imports of goods and services, so we return to the old tracks of a small and export-oriented economy. The balance sheet of current transactions will be negative due to the return on profits and the outflow of so-called factor revenues, but this is part of a small open economy and does not in itself show such pressing structural problems. Of course, it shows that it is also necessary to insist that business headquarters remain with us and that profits flow into our macroeconomic flows. In addition to the external balance, we also have an internal balance, inflation is low, it is around 2%, which is also the European Central Bank's goal. The global crisis, from a distance and in terms of budget planning for the next 2 years, has reached its third phase. The first was the classic financial crisis. It's a very serious bankruptcy error for Lehman Brothers. This was the realisation of systemic risk, as it is called. Last time I explained 45 minutes, I'm not going to repeat the theory of what happened. Then came the expected profound impact on the real sector because of the collapse of the financial system, the decline in demand. There was an economic policy response with an expanding fiscal policy. Now we're in phase three, this is public finance recovery. This is taking place in accordance with the way in which the modern world is managed, which is hyper-informed, where expectations have an enormous impact on decisions, more than real movements themselves, where the similarity of some problems is enough to trigger reactions from trading partners, lenders and so on without any disturbances at all, but the disturbances are caused by the fear that someone will not pay. In these circumstances, the stability of public finances has, of course, become one of the fundamental objectives. We are also adapting savings budgets for the next 2 years. We have also adapted the balance of the budget this year, adding a clear signal that we are a stable society capable of saving in a way that keeps us socially connected and developmentally focused. It is said that we do not lose the compass, but we still insist on policies that lead to the development and security of our citizens and citizens. I don't have enough time to go into the dilemma of establishing a fiscal balance across the European Union, but there will be some needs to be encouraged. We expect that this will not be such small open economies as we are, but at the level of larger economies, it will be necessary to make the climbs a little easier to keep demand running. In the reverse case a new package of measures will follow in the following year, there is no doubt about that. But here we are. Now we're moving into these two basic parameters. The first is macro-economic growth, which is still unattainable at the 2008 level, which is said to be a limited situation and resources. Another is the signal to the markets that we are able to save and manage our public finances while maintaining both the main pillars of our policy – social cohesion and developmental orientation. The State budget for 2011 was adopted at the end of 2009 at substantially different macroeconomic starting points and, in particular, at a significantly different fiscal capacity of the State budget. The public financial situation, in which Slovenia was also particularly affected by the financial and economic crisis, has greatly reduced our public finances. Tax revenues will continue to be lower than those collected in 2008 in 2011, this being next year, and this is still lower than 920 million euros. The second year is planned for 920 million euros in lower public financial revenues than in 2008. I cannot help but overlook the fact that the recent tax reform has affected lower public finances in addition to the crisis. This time, too, I cannot go beyond the fact that reduced fiscal capacity did not follow an appropriate reform, which would also reduce expenditure. Hence, it may also be painful to give up or reduce the expected growth. The budget deficit, as the difference between the revenue and expenditure of the state budget, will be 1.8 billion or 4.9 GDP in 2010 according to our latest estimates, this year, and these are all four cash sums. In 2011, the budget deficit will fall by 0.4% of GDP to 4.5% of GDP in line with the budget changes submitted and by an additional 0.9% of GDP in 2012. With fiscal rule and relatively stable consumption, the reduction of the deficit will be affected by the gold expected growth in the revenues of the tax rates given together with the konjunktur. The budget revenue will amount to €8.3 billion, which is half a billion less than the planned revenue in the 2011 budget already adopted and €0.3 billion more than the 2010 budget estimates. The expenditure of the State budget will amount to €10 billion in 2011 in line with the changes made, which is the ceiling of the limited fiscal rule, which is EUR 400 million less than in the 2011 budget. In doing so, all categories of expenditure shall be reduced. The dying autumn forecast of economic trends is slightly more encouraging than the spring forecast. Economic growth is expected to be 0.9% this year, which is 0.6% above the spring forecast. Economic growth will be even higher in 2011, with 2.5%. However, the labour market situation is adjusted with a time-consuming delay and therefore, in 2011 Umar expects only a calming of the situation. In forecasting revenue for 2011 and 2012, we came from an assessment of the actual realisation of this year's revenues, taking into account Umar's autumn forecasts, the assessment and the changes in the tax system adopted. In the Draft Amendments to the Republic of Slovenia for 2011, we plan EUR 8 billion 329 million of revenue, including EUR 6 billion 766 million of tax revenue, EUR 469 million of non-tax revenue, EUR 35 million of capital income, donations and transfer revenue, and EUR 59 million of the European Union budget. First, on the expenditure side of the State budget, it should be stressed that there are some new developments this year. We have taken the preparation of the so-called programme budget very seriously, so you may first be surprised and surprised at the listing and review of this year's budget documents. In particular, there are differences in explanations. Much effort has been made to set goals and indicators. We are aware that everything is certainly not yet perfect this year, but there is certainly considerable progress that we will have to make in the coming years. All the countries that have embarked on the programming of the budget have taken years to fully implement, and we too will be no exception. However, the basis is laid that decisions in the future, what and how to finance with public money, as already mentioned by the Prime Minister, may be easier and more transparent. The expenditure of the State budget is divided into 16 development and state-of-the-art policies. Through this policy, of course, they express and also express the country's priorities. It is important to mention here that the impact on the structure is also in the priorities set by the budgetary planning of the funds drawn from the European Union. From here on, a great deal of emphasis is placed on investment, which is a priority in the European Union's spending budgets. Therefore, some of these investments do not shrink, but they continue to be sustained. Here we have been guided – and I think we will have to do even more in the future – especially to encourage the development of soft factors, knowledge, incentives for the introduction of new businesses, technologies and approaches, and to improve the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, which can no longer receive such incentives, and it is practically very difficult to generate such incentives. Our future is to insist on building a knowledge society capable of putting such goods on the global market so that it can finance a relatively high standard of living. I am pleased to say that social security is still the highest priority of this government and our country as a whole. The highest share of government budget expenditure is also earmarked in 2011 for social security policy, namely €2.5 billion. The increase in expenditure compared to 2008, which is based on the policy orientation of this government, also shows that the most – by €430 million or 21% – social security expenditure increases. All of this shows that, despite the measures envisaged, they do not interfere with the rights acquired or do not diminish these rights, but that their growth is limited, which cannot be financed by a given and limited public funding source. In order for Slovenia to remain a social state, it will be necessary to strengthen our economy and enable it to be more competitive, and for our citizens and citizens to have good and quality knowledge of how to achieve it. Expenditure devoted to higher education, science, technology and information society policies increases by 220 million euros or 45% in 2011 compared to 2008. They will receive €707 million in 2011, slightly more than this year, but the increase to this year's level is not essential. In 2011, when compared to 2010, the budget expenditure to the labour market policy is reduced, which is the logical consequence of the withdrawal of anti-crisis measures, but the funds for this purpose are increasing for those mentioned in 2008 – the prime minister has already talked about this – EUR 191 million or 100 %. Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness Policy funds are increasing by 112 million euros or 44% compared to 2008, and they are also increasing significantly in terms of this year, as we are allowing new calls for funds drawn from the European Union. Thus, 370 million euros will be earmarked for this very important policy in 2011. The funding for education and sport policies is also increasing by €60 million in 2008 as well as the projected funding for transport policy and transport infrastructures by 60 million or 10% in 2008 respectively. Ladies and gentlemen! At the time of this year's budget, most of the above-mentioned words fly to the measures necessary to enable the state budget to be socially and at the same time developmentally oriented. I have already mentioned many times that we do not abolish any right by proposing an intervention law, but we limit their growth only for the following year, and then by gradual release in line with the social partnership we will also ensure a real increase in transfers, wages and the like. It is probably right that we are involved in saving everyone who receives public funds. Finally, let me reiterate that the budgets ahead of you are the result of a compromise between social and development coordination to reduce budget deficits, i.e. in 2011 it will be 4.5% for all 4 cash registers – budget in a narrow sense, pension, health and treasury municipalities; and in 2012 it will be 3.6% if growth is actually as slow as we now anticipate, otherwise the situation will be better. The lower budget deficit also increases costs related to servicing and debt repayment. Once again, I would like to point out that the measures included in the national budgets do not remove any rights already acquired. Ladies and gentlemen, I want and I believe that you will support the 2011 and 2012 budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-10-11-SDZ5-Izredna-30.ana.u6	Thank you very much. This concludes the presentation of the 2011-2012 budget memorandum and the 2011 budget changes of the Republic of Slovenia and the 2012 draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia. To the President of the Government, Borut Pahor and Minister of Finance, Dr. Franc Križanič, I thank you for the presentation. Today's presentation starts with the deadline for the submission of amendments to the Draft amending the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2012. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 30th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I inform all members and members of the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee and persons with disabilities that the 19th urgent meeting of the Committee will begin in 15 minutes in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič. Thank you very much. That concludes the session. The meeting was closed on 11 October 2010 at 3 p.m.
