ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 25th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Dara Lavtišar Bebler, Melita Župevc, Mag. Vasja Klavora, Miro Friday, mag. Franc Žnidaršič, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, mag. Branko Grimes, mag. Anton rob, Guido Kres, Franz Bogovich, Aloise Potočnik, Miran Jerič from 18.00 on, Janez Janša, Villa Trofenik from 13.00 to 17.00, Tadej Slapnik from 13.00 to 17.00, Ivan Grill and Milenko Ziherl. I invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 25th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 10.6.2010. I have not received any proposals to extend the agenda and I propose to the assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We're voting. 48 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 25th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Decision in response to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's response to plans for the construction of terminals for liquefied land gas in the Gulf of Europe and its coastal area. The proposal for a decision was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us an emergency meeting with a very important subject. All constitutional and business conditions allowing such a reference are met. The President has already said that the thematic response is, I would say, a non-response, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to plans to build terminals for liquefied natural gas in the Gulf of Markets and in its coastal area. The reasons for the convening of the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly are as follows. Slovenia last dealt with gas terminals in the Northern Adriatic on 18 February 2010, when a decision was taken by the Government to initiate the preparation of documents for the preliminary procedure before the European Commission for an action against Italy on account of the gas terminal in Žavaje. The cold shower came on 24.5.2010, when the Italian Minister for the Environment, Protection of Space and the Sea announced that the procedures had been completed and that the terminal would be. I quote: "Italia has completed the environmental verification process of the project of the inflator in Žavaje, also in relation to Slovenia. We estimate that we have responded comprehensively to all many Slovenian requirements, many also eligible. This will be decided on Thursday by the Italian Government." This was said by Stefania Prestigiacomo, Italian Minister of Environment, Protection of Space and Sea, after more than two-fold talks at the Prefecture of Marketing with our environmental minister, Dr. Rok Žarnic, in Trieste. She went on to say that the environmental impact problem was particularly important for Italian citizens and that was why her ministry had to take a responsible decision. Positively, according to her, they're going to set up a power plant next to the gas station that's going to use all the cooled water from this device's system. I quote: "I believe that good-neighbourly relations must be based primarily on the fact that each country has the right to exercise [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u3	May I have your attention in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u4	Thank you, President. "... Which are of strategic importance to them," she concluded. The story of the construction of gas terminals dates back to the beginning of February 2006, when Terminal Alpi Adriatico and Spain's Endessa Europa presented a plan for the construction of a gas terminal in the middle of the Gulf of Markets, which Slovenia was not officially informed. As early as March of this year, market fishermen were the first to raise concerns about the increased traffic of ships, the cooling of the sea and the high use of cleaning products. On 9 March 2006, on the basis of media reports, Member Dr Marko Pavliha asked the Slovenian government how it would respond to these plans. It is also the first time in Slovenia that Italian or Spanish Gasnatural plans a terminal on land in Žavaje. Both terminals are very close to the border with Slovenia. On 16 March 2006, the Minister of Environment and Space wrote to the Italian colleague, and on 3 April 2006, Endessa announced that all the procedures would be smooth and that the gas terminal in the Gulf of Markets would be installed by 2010. Fortunately, that didn't come true. On 4 April 2006, the Foreign Ministry warned Italy to report to the international institutions of the European Union unless it quickly provided complete relevant technical and environmental documentation on both projects. 26 April 2006 as well as the inclusion in the process of a comprehensive environmental impact assessment of both projects in accordance with international conventions and directives. On 22 May 2006, a group of 31 LDS and SD members, signed first by Dr. Paul Gantar, submitted an application for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on the Government's response to the Italian plans. On 29 May 2006, an extraordinary meeting was held and several conclusions were adopted by the National Assembly. Among other things, he ordered the Government to call on Italy to return the environmental impact assessment procedures to the initial phase if it did not want to, but to involve the European Union or Brussels. On 14 January 2007, the Italian Minister for the Environment, Alfonso Scanio, announced that an environmental impact assessment should be prepared with Slovenia and Croatia. On 23 June 2008, Gus Natural agreed by the Italian Government that the terminal in Žavaje complies with environmental rules so that the construction could start at the beginning of 2009 at the latest. On 3 September 2008, Environment and Space Minister Janez Podobnik in Rome met with Italian counterpart Stefanio Prestigiacomo, who announced that Italy was supposed to be ready to consult and set up a joint expert group. We were informed of Italy's incorrect moves on 21 August 2009, when the Alpe Adria Green Environmental Protection Organisation presented documentation showing that the Italians had organized or even falsified data for the Zavaje terminal. On this basis, on 3 September 2009, the Government found that the gas terminal project in Žavaje is unacceptable and threatened Italy with an action before the European Court of Justice. For us, important confirmation was obtained by Alpe Adria Green, on 23 October 2009, from the European Commission, which stated that Italy is in breach of the directive and that Slovenia has a key right to assess the cross-border impact of terminals, which neighbours should have known since April 2009. The question of the construction of gas terminals is not only Italy’s problem, but also Slovenia’s, as cross-border effects have been proven. Unilateral insistence on the construction and exclusion of Slovenia from the procedures for assessing the cross-border impact of terminals is contrary to the good neighbourly relations which the Italian Minister is so keen to stress. It has been shown that in the past all the competent authorities in Slovenia have done everything possible to prevent construction from taking place until it is proven that there will be no cross-border environmental effects. However, already in the process of evaluation of the data analysis, it has been shown that the data have been modified, which has also significantly changed the key input data and parameters on the basis of which environmental impacts have been assessed. For us, the cross-border impacts and their consequences are particularly important. In the Slovenian Government, we should be seriously concerned that Italy allows such behaviour and unilateral decision-making, despite the fact that the Italian Minister praised the constructive cooperation of the current Minister when they met yesterday, I quote: "has laid the groundwork for fair and honest cooperation, while unable to say so for the former Slovenian Minister", the end of the quote. This statement by the Minister points out that Minister Žarnic is inappropriate and, in accordance with the conclusions of the 2006 National Assembly, has represented the interests of the Republic of Slovenia and has also overlooked the important decisions of our Government and all the activities of Slovenia so far, as well as the resolution adopted in January in this National Assembly. A much greater determination was to be expected, at this unilateral decision of Italy, from our environmental minister, Dr. Rok Žarnić, as well as from our government. In particular, because Italian Minister of Environment Stefania Prestigiacomo stated at the same meeting that Italy had requested an extension of the deadline for the Italian assessments of the State Spatial Plan for Luka Koper because they had to translate the documentation they received in Slovenian. The Italian Minister also stated, quote: "We are absolutely interested in constructive cooperation because we understand that this is a strategic project for Slovenia. Good neighbourly relations must be based on the knowledge that each country is legitimately developing its strategic development projects. While respecting the rights of neighbouring countries to draw attention to environmental impacts, the final decision is always the decision of the country which decides on its projects. I think we have highlighted this important principle. I trust cooperation with my neighbours, but I cannot say that this cooperation has always been transparent in the past."the end of the quote. We wonder whether this is true in the light of the Italian decisions in the case of terminals and Luke Koper. And how did our minister react? Instead of being determined and defending Slovenian interests, the decision of the Italian colleague commented, quote: "We have received assurances on the Italian side that there is great concern and commitment and the most modern technology and profession at the forefront. But because the problem is complex, the Slovenian government must give its position to the Italian government. At this point, I think the Slovenian government has had all the grounds to react quickly, but it still does not. It is also bound by the resolution adopted in this National Assembly. It would be reasonable to ask whether there is a silent agreement on the construction of gas terminals, in some way by issuing an Italian agreement on the State Spatial Plan for Luka Koper, behind the indecency of the Slovenian government. Italy has taken advantage of the possibilities and participates in a cross-border environmental impact assessment of the State Spatial Plan for the port of Cyprus provided by international environmental legislation. Whether Slovenia will also require Italy to include in the environmental impact assessment for the planned expansion of the port of Trieste. As we know, Rome has finally approved a regulatory plan, a fundamental urban document that allows for the expansion and development of the port of Trieste. The document now needs environmental assessment and then final confirmation of the country of Furlania of the Julian Region, which has already rejected the spatial plan for Luka Koper at its meeting, which is not to be ignored. During his first official visit to Slovenia in March 2010, Dr. Janez Potočnik met with the Minister of the Environment, Dr. Rok Žarnic. On this visit, he expressed his readiness to organise a second technical coordination meeting between Slovenia and Italy on gas terminals. As he said, it is only possible to discuss solutions acceptable to both sides. I quote: "I don't have a landing yet, nor is the date of the meeting, but it is important for both sides to continue discussions, because this is the most appropriate and most likely way for a solution that will be of mutual benefit."the end of the quote. We are also wondering in whose interest Slovenian Commissioner Janez Potočnik works. So far, it has not expressed its position on terminal construction, even though that is the case with its own department. It was justified to expect that it would speak very strongly and defend the interests of our country when Italy announced that it would not comply with our requirements. He didn't hear it. Even more, two months ago, he offered to organise a coordination meeting in Brussels between the two sides, and he obviously did not do so. Nor is it known how the European Union, as its Commissioner for the Environment, reacted when Italy made a unilateral decision to suspend talks and coordination with Slovenia on gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets. However, he had time during this period to come forward as a supporter of the coalition's parties in a bid to support voters for a poor proposal for an arbitration agreement on the basis of which Slovenia will be an important part of its territory and sea and which Slovenia takes on an important part of its sovereignty and probably also a negotiating basis in this case. What interests does our well-paid European official advocate and represent? Why is it not exemplary with his colleague, Antonio Tajani, who, as Commissioner for Transport, has managed to force the Slovenian government to introduce weekly vignettes, making the prices of annual vignettes almost doubled and the half-year-olds have been abolished? This hit the pocket the most precisely our citizens, who are also paying a high compensation for the use of roads and the high price of fuel. If we draw the line, we express great concern about the work of our government officials and about the level of our European Commissioner for the Environment, Dr. Janez Potočnik, because they do not ensure that Slovenia is responsibly and adequately involved in assessing the cross-border impacts of disputed gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets. We are also concerned about the conduct of those active politicians who, in the previous mandate, have consistently asked the previous government about its actions, and today the unacceptable behaviour of the Pahor Government and the European Commissioner are being tolerated quietly. We are proposing that Italy's unilateral decision is not in the spirit of good neighbourly relations. Each country has the right to decide for itself which developmental important projects will be carried out, but it must be aware here that the neighbouring country has the right to make a reservation if it turns out that the implementation and operation of a specific project will have negative economic and environmental consequences on the neighbouring country. In the case of the construction of gas terminals, cross-border effects have already proved to be. Finally, the fact that Italy has organised or even falsified data justifying the implementation of the project indicates this. Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, has this opportunity to propose a person for Commissioner to the European Union. In this mandate, Slovenia proposed Dr. Janez Potočnik, who took the post of Commissioner for the Environment. We expect him to take a clear position and defend the interests of our country within the framework permitted by European legislation. On the basis of all that has been said and said, the signatories and the signatories to the request to convene the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly propose the following decisions for decision. First, the National Assembly took note of information that the Republic of Italy had taken a unilateral decision on the construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets. Second: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare a report within 30 days on the implementation of the conclusions of the 18th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, held on 29 May 2006. Thirdly: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to present within 30 days at the latest a plan of activities and measures to be initiated under the European Directive and the International Convention to safeguard the interests of Slovenia in the European Commission with the European Commissioner for Environment, Dr. Janez Potočnik, and the Republic of Italy. Fourthly: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to participate more actively in the resolution process of the situation of the European Commissioner for the Environment, Dr. Janez Potočnik. Throughout the debate, we will see to it what we are doing in the proposal for a meeting, and how the Government intends to address this issue and, in line with the debate to take place, we expect that there will be another proposal for conclusions, and I also expect support on such an important issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decision was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Breda Pecan to present the report to the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u6	Thank you for your words, Mr President, and good day to all present, including the Minister and his co-worker! At its 9th urgent meeting on 10 June this year, the Committee on Environment and Space considered a proposal for a decision on the response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the plans for the construction of liquefied natural gas terminals in the Gulf of Serbia and in its coastal area, submitted by a group of Members and Members with a first-signed Member, Jozet Tank. Representatives of the proposers of the draft Decision, the Ministry of Environment and Space, Foreign Affairs, Defence, Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Ministry of Health, the Economy and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated in the meeting. In addition to the basic material, the Committee received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly on the proposal for a decision and information from the Government on the activities and measures related to the problem of gas terminals in the Gulf in 2010 and 2011. In an introductory explanation of the reasons and individual points of the proposal, the representative of the motioners, Mr Krivec, said that the reason for the request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly was the lack of information regarding the response to the unilateral statement by the Italian Minister for Environment, Space and Sea Protection at the meeting on 24 May this year in Trieste, that Italy had completed the environmental verification process of the gas terminal project in Žavaje. Otherwise, the debate we have just heard has also been heard on the committee itself. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has examined the proposal for a decision as a proposal for an act of the National Assembly in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. The text of the draft decision itself had no comments in terms of its competence, but it noted with regard to the fourth point of the proposal, in relation to its explanation, that the Commissioners of the European Commission should carry out their functions professionally and independently in the interests of the European Union and not in the interests of their country. There's a mag at the board meeting. Mr Zoran Kus, State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and Space, presented information on the activities and measures related to the problem of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets in 2010 and 2011, adopted by the Government at its 86th meeting, on 10 June. He briefly presented the planned activities in this year and 2011 related to the preparation of a document for the preliminary procedure with the European Commission in accordance with Article 259 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, by which the Republic of Slovenia will call on the European Commission to bring an action against the Republic of Italy for alleged violation of relevant legislation and international contracts in the planning of gas terminals in the Gulf of Market. He also presented a report on the meeting between the Minister for Environment, Space and Sea Protection of the Republic of Italy and the Minister for Environment and Space of the Republic of Slovenia, on 24 May this year in Trieste, and a report on the technical meeting between Italy and Slovenia on the process of cross-border environmental impact assessment, gas terminals in the Gulf of Trst, on 4 June 2010. He also presented the chronology of the activities and procedures so far since spring 2006 when it was learned that Italy is planning to build gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets and its coastal area. In the context of the discussion on individual points of the proposal for a decision, the proposed amendment to point 1 of the proposal was given that Italy had only taken a decision on the construction of the gas terminal in the Frogs near Trieste. The proposed schedule of activities and procedures for bringing an action against the Republic of Italy for infringements of relevant legislation and international contracts in the planning of gas terminals has been raised. However, it was said that it was necessary to prepare a good substantive basis for the European Commission procedure so that it could be decided on the basis of arguments and facts. On this basis, the European Commissioner for the Environment will also be able to actively participate in the resolution process. In the context of the second reading of the proposal, the Committee, in accordance with Rule 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, held a debate and a vote on the individual points of the proposed decision and adopted its amendments to all four points of the proposal. In view of the decision taken by the Republic of Italy to build the gas terminal in Žavaje, information from the Government on the plan of activities and measures to safeguard Slovenia’s interests in the European Commission and on the responsibility of the Commissioners of the European Commission is transmitted to the Government and the text of the first three points has been amended accordingly and point 4 of the proposal for a decision has been deleted. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the updated proposal for a decision concerning the response of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the plans for the construction of liquefied natural gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets and its coastal area in which all the amendments adopted by the Committee are included is prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u7	Thank you very much for the introductory explanation of the opinion. I give the floor to the representative of the government. Dr. Roko Žarnic, Minister for Environment and Space, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u8	Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The problem of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets and its coastal area has been at the table of the Government and the National Assembly for more than four years. The issue is both substantive and politically challenging. So let me chronologically present a few key events of activity and action over the last four years. I believe that, based on chronology, we will all better understand the dimension of the problem together. I have been interfering with chronology during the period of the previous composition of the National Assembly and the previous government. Many of you will recall that in early March 2006, about four months after that, on 6 April 2006, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia first considered information on the events concerning the presentation of gas terminals in the Gulf of Tržaška and established an inter-resortory commission for gas terminals. On 14 July 2006, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting found that the gas terminals envisaged would most likely have significant cross-border impacts. On 29 May 2006, an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly took place, at which only the Council took note of information on the construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Tržaška, and adopted, inter alia, a decision calling on the Government to use all possible diplomatic and legal channels on the basis of which the Republic of Slovenia will be equally involved in a comprehensive cross-border environmental impact assessment. In September 2006, the Ministry of Environment and Space of Slovenia obtained the first documentation and made it public from October to November 2006, Italy and the European Commission were also informed of the decommissioning. In November 2006, Slovenia proposed to Italy to launch consultations on the basis of a dossier on environmental impact assessment in accordance with European law and the EspO Convention. On 6 January 2007, the Government took note of the expert opinion of various universities and institutes of Slovenia on the harmful cross-border impact. The Ministry of Environment and Space, together with the study, forwarded these findings to the Italian Ministry of Environment and to the European Commission at all times. On 20 June 2008, Italy adopted opinion No 73 on the environmental acceptability of the gas terminal project in Žavaje and Slovenia took note of this on 1 August 2008. Slovenia has strongly protested this opinion, as it was adopted without the completion of a cross-border environmental impact assessment procedure. Slovenia informed the European Commission and the secretariat of the EspO Convention and called on Italy to repeal international and European law as a result of its violations. On the basis of all the warnings and calls, Italy finally agreed to discuss the cross-border environmental impact of the gas terminal in Žavaje. On 8 September 2008, the first coordination committee between the Government of Slovenia and the Government of Italy took place in Rome, where a discussion took place among the other items of the agenda on the issues of gas terminals. It was agreed to set up an informal technical commission of Slovenia and Italy with a two-month mandate to establish views on gas terminals as part of a cross-border environmental impact assessment. The informal technical commission concluded its work on 30 October 2008. At that time, Slovenia, on the basis of all the studies and documents received, made extensive comments on the documentation concerning the Zavlje terminal, the gas pipeline and the offshore terminal, and forwarded them to Italy on 30 October 2008 in order to include them in the revision of the final opinion. On this basis, Italy adopted a new opinion on 13 March 2009 No 251, supplementing opinion No 73 of 20 June 2008. In the new opinion, Italy made comments submitted by Slovenia in accordance with international and European law and took them into account only to a limited extent. On 16 June, the Italian diplomatic delegation informed Slovenia of its opinion 251 for the first time. Slovenia has requested an official opinion No 251 and with all the documentation on which this opinion is based. On 17 July 2009, Italy adopted a decree on the environmental acceptability of the gas terminal in Žavaje, the mandatory component of which is also opinion No 251. With this step, Italy took a final decision on the construction of a gas terminal in Žavaje on 17 July 2009. This final decision was triggered by an administrative dispute in Italy, by the municipalities of Milje, the Valley and Koper, which is not yet concluded today. The Minister for the Environment of Slovenia, however, expressed disagreement in his letter about the decision taken. On 27 July 2009, Slovenia was officially given an opinion No 251 and a decree on the environmental acceptability of the gas terminal in Žavaje, on 17 July 2009. The Italian minister meets at the 24th meeting. 5. referred to this document when she said that the story was concluded for them. On 26 October 2009, Slovenia received additional documentation for the offshore terminal. Slovenia rejected the diplomatic note because the planned location of the offshore terminal is 600 metres from the border between the territorial waters between Italy and Slovenia, which means that for the secure zone 2000 meters, it would reach the territory of my Slovenia. The second reason for rejecting the document was the postponement of maps that had a written border between Slovenia and Croatia after the middle of the Gulf of Piran. On 9 November 2009, the second coordination committee between the Government of Slovenia and the Government of Italy ran to Brdo pri Kranju, where the Italian Minister of the Environment stressed that Italy had completed the procedure for Žavlje, now on 9 November again. The Slovenian Minister of the Environment reiterated his opposition to the construction of gas terminals in Žavaje, due to a number of open issues. He called again on Italy to provide us with a study on which Italy's final decision for the Goose and the gas pipeline study was based. Italy therefore forwarded this material on 12 November 2009 after several months of written and oral calls by Slovenia. At its meeting on 18 February 2010, the Government addressed information on the problem of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets and its coastal area by adopting a six-point decision. Point 4 of the Decision was commissioned by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Interresor Commission on Gas Terminals to prepare this document for a preliminary procedure before the European Commission in accordance with Article 259 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, by which Slovenia would call on the European Commission to bring an action against the Italian Republic for alleged violation of relevant legislation and international contracts in the planning of gas terminals in the Gulf of Tržaška. That document is to be submitted by the Interdepartmental Commission to the Government for consideration in July 2010. A partial extension of the deadline for the preparation of documents was made for the preliminary procedure before the European Commission because, on the basis of a decision taken by the Government on 18 February 2010, Slovenia sought to have as many bilateral discussions with Italy as possible to obtain additional elements for the preparation of the preliminary procedure document or through which it tried to solve the problems. On 24 May, they met with the Minister for the Environment of Italy. At this meeting, the Minister once again, for the third time, explicitly stressed that Italy had made a final decision for the terminal in Žavaje last year and that Italy was no longer prepared to negotiate the terminal in Žavaje. I made it clear to the secretary that I was only taking note of her statement. Not that I agree, not on 4 June 2010, a technical meeting was held between Italy and Slovenia for the process of assessing the cross-border impact on the environment at the project level for the Trst Gradež pipeline, for the so-called offshore gas terminal, for the cross-border assessment of environmental impacts at the planned level for planning for the expansion of the port of Koper. At its meeting on 10 June 2010, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia addressed information on activities and measures concerning the problem of gas terminals in the Gulf of Serbia in 2010 and 2011 and adopted a decision, including a framework plan and timetable for activities and procedures in 2010 and 2011. In its fourth point of the decision, it ordered the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Interdepartmental Commission on Gas Terminals to prepare a document for the preliminary procedure with the European Commission by 30 September 2010. However, in point 5 of the Decision, it imposed on the Ministry of Environment and Space, together with the competent ministries and government services, to prepare, by 30 September, a scenario or starting point for the talks and negotiations between Italy and Slovenia on the placement of all major projects in the Gulf of Markets and its coastal area which could have cross-border environmental effects and which could be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. In order to address the problem of gas terminals and above all welcome the European Commission's additional engagement mainly in 2010. For this purpose, the European Commission has already organised an informal technical meeting between Italy, Slovenia and the Commission on 26 January 2010. Days ago, a letter was received by the European Commission with the announcement of the organisation of the second technical meeting expected to take place in September 2010. The Commission’s engagement contributed to Italy’s decision to initiate a process of cross-border environmental impacts on the pipeline and to prepare a study of the cumulative environmental impacts of all three terminal projects in Žavaje, gas pipeline and offshore terminal. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will order in October 2010 a so-called critical review or "review" of the pre-trial procedure document in one of the law offices with appropriate references. The legal office is expected to deliver an opinion by the end of December 2010 on the quality and integrity of the preliminary procedure document. In addition, with regard to the possibility of Slovenia to succeed in the action. On the basis of the completed document under the "Review", the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is expected to decide in January 2011 on the initiation of a preliminary procedure with the European Commission. If, on the basis of a final document, the Government decides on a preliminary procedure and sends it to the European Commission in accordance with Article 259 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Commission shall have three months to reply or, at the invitation of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, initiate a judicial procedure against Italy in the European Court of Justice or not. If the European Commission does not decide to press charges against Italy, it is the decision to bring an action in the hands of Slovenia. According to current informal information, the European Commission wants Italy and Slovenia to agree not to bring an action by Slovenia. The European Commission is committed to resolving problems between Member States for agreements, as one of its core tasks is to help communicate and resolve open problems between the Member States of the European Union. Allow me to invite you to a constructive debate on the resolution of the problem of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets and its coastal area. I propose that you support the decisions of the Government of 10 June 2010, together with the indicative plan and timetable of activities and procedures for the period 2010-2011. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. Procedural, procedural, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Yesterday, the Minister in Odessa stated that he was not familiar with the views or talks of the Prime Minister with Italian President Berlusconi in this position until today, and there was absolutely nothing to hear about these matters. Prior to his visit to Libya, the Prime Minister of the Government stressed that he would also talk to Berlusconia, the Italian Prime Minister about terminals, pipelines and so on in the Gulf of Markets. And I propose that you interrupt the meeting so long as the Prime Minister of the Government comes and explains what he has discussed with Italian Prime Minister Berlusconi in Rome on this subject for Slovenia. Yesterday there was no answer, today in the Government's position on these new arrangements, there was no comment on the new elements, no explanation, but it is in fact fundamental matters, which are also related to the work of the National Assembly, to the proposals for conclusions, to the guidelines that I will adopt and, after all, also for, we can all agree on an extremely sensitive topic, an extremely sensitive topic for Slovenia. And I propose that we seize this opportunity and this opportunity to get firsthand information on what was actually agreed and agreed in Tripoli. There is certainly no reason for us to go into this area of some kind of silent diplomacy when the President of the Government talks with the other Prime Minister of the Government about very important key issues for the fate of the North Adriatic. The Minister who comes to the National Assembly to defend this subject and is empowered by the Government to comment on this matter does not say a word about it, not yesterday, not today, not ever. Today, however, we have a special subject and a point of the agenda. I therefore propose that we suspend the meeting in half an hour and ensure the participation of the President of the Government to inform us of all the relevant circumstances, contents, proposals, arrangements that he made two days ago in Tripoli at the famous dinner at Gaddafi. I believe that we are Members of the National Assembly and that this would be absolutely necessary from the point of view of the Government's hygiene and the attitude towards the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Tanko, there are no business reasons for the suspension of the sitting, so of course I will not put this interruption to the vote or order. The government has forwarded representatives of the Government to participate in the meeting on this agenda. That's what you got. And we will have to satisfy ourselves with those who explain those representatives that the Government has appointed. Whether these explanations are good enough or not, we'll evaluate all of this. Mr Minister Roko Žarnic entered the floor. I will give him my word after presenting the views of the groups of Members. Position of the Group Procedural, Mrs Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u12	Mr President, I would still propose procedurally, but it is not a interruption, but to give the floor first to Mr Jarnić if he has anything to say about the Prime Minister's conversation with Berlusconi, because this content can affect this conversation. Understand that it is awkward now to express some views, but then we will learn some of the content that what we are saying is already pasturing or that it has changed. Therefore, I am procedurally proposing that, as long as the Minister-designate has this extraordinary meeting, the information relevant to today's meeting should present them, that we will know further, both in the positions of groups and individuals, whether to ask or speak. That's my procedural proposal. But you'll decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u13	Mr Barovic, I must say that your procedural proposal, just to answer first, is that your procedural proposal is contrary to my understanding of order, but you are right in substance. In this regard, I will give the floor to Dr Roko Žarnic as soon as he has made his procedural proposal or communication to Mr Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. I cannot agree with your arguments for rejecting the proposal to see the President of the Government. In fact, if anyone in this country is to be fully and fully informed by the National Assembly. I felt sorry for the minister last night when he said he had no idea what the Prime Minister was talking about. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u15	Mr Jerovšek, this is an abuse of the business question, this is a debate. Please make a suggestion if I don't have to take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u16	Mr President, I do not understand your reply, given that you were first signed under the request of 2 June 2006, where in Decision No 4 you requested the Government to inform on all relevant matters, diplomatic notes, all of which you requested. [[...]] But today you turned 180 degrees. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u17	Where's the procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u18	And the procedural proposal is and requires the National Assembly to be fully informed. Once again, we ask Mr President of the Government to come here because it is obvious that he is not informing the minister of the matter. That was obvious last night. And he can't represent a minister like that here if he doesn't have information [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u19	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u20	That's it. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u21	make a procedural proposal. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u22	So, please bring the President of the Government here because the National Assembly has the right to be informed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u23	Mr Jerovšek, I am not a guide for Ljubljana and a guide for the National Assembly. So I won't do it. I conclude this debate. As far as my role is concerned, I would like to stress that I am absolutely in favour of this meeting and will also talk about it, and I will give my word to Mr. Jarnić. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u24	I've got a procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u25	Procedurally, Mr. Tanko. You want procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I must protest, Mr President, because every Member has 3 minutes at his disposal to explain his procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u27	If he has one, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u28	Sure. And that's why I'll have an explanation first. I don't think it's ethical or wise that from the point of view of running the National Assembly you're jumping to the floor and trying to force or suggest something. Leave it, the business provision is clear, and please apply it properly. On the other hand, the substantive question at this point is the well-respected President of the National Assembly. Today, we do not have all the documents or arrangements of the Government that were made after receiving the government material that we received 10. 6. We don't have the latest documents on the table and the latest deals - we didn't get them orally, even less in writing. And our proposal is only to suspend the meeting for so long that the Prime Minister of the Government comes and tells us orally at this meeting what he had discussed with Italian Prime Minister Berlusconi at a notable dinner two days ago in Tripoli. There is no other way, honourable President of the National Assembly, to discuss this subject because we do not know the final arrangements. The government didn't give them in writing, the minister didn't say them orally, the Prime Minister did, and apparently, he has all this information and he keeps it to himself. If the work of the National Assembly is to be taken seriously, and at this point at all, because it is a substantive, political and also important question, I suggest that the meeting be suspended - you have a reason - because there are new circumstances that have arisen after this and we do not have all the relevant explanations and answers to this point, we do not have, because it was clearly stated before the President of the Government went to Libya to talk with Prime Minister Berlusconi about this issue, and we do not now have this information here. It is not possible to hold a debate just because of the debate. We want to hold a substantive debate, we want to know what the President of the Government has agreed, agreed. We want to know this because we will also be able to draw new or additional points in the proposal for a decision and so on. And here we want a competent interlocutor. The Minister of the Environment has publicly told the entire Slovenian public that he does not have this information, except for those two or three sentences that have been recorded in the media. And I don't understand, either. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] coalition members, including all those who are so concerned about the fate of the Gulf of Piran and of the Gulf of Markets, who are concerned about the excessive influence that the President of the Government would not report these recent arrangements to us. [[...]] That's why I suggest you stop the session!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u29	Once again, I must inform you that there are no commercial reasons for the suspension of the sitting. Another time. That the Government has sent a list of representatives to participate in the National Assembly at this meeting. That we will have to accept the answers that government representatives participating in the meeting will give us. Whether these answers will be satisfactory or not, we will judge in the end, and I do not know it yet, and it is not given in advance, no advance vote for these answers. The government will have to convince us about this and we will, of course, move forward with this meeting. As I've decided, though contrary to the rule, please? [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] I think it's just a certain exception we've been asked to make. But you are right, strictly business does not apply this, so of course you will not get the word. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Anton Anderlič has the floor, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. [[Ad in the background.]] Excuse me! Procedurally, Breda Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u30	I would like to remind you again, Mr President, that all of us, Members and Members, have received material from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is called Information on [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] No, it's not out of date since 10 June 2010. So, information on activities and measures concerning the problem of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets in 2010 and 2011. Those of you who have this information in your office, and you haven't taken the time to read the address, just go look for it. I can't tell you anything else. For this reason, I am procedurally proposing, the President of the National Assembly, that you no longer listen to bluffing because the information is complete, we have talked about it on the committee and I think we can continue this now.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik. [[Ad in the background.]] Procedurally, Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think it would be wise and reasonable for you to give your word to the Minister, however, as previously announced.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u33	I would like to remind you once again that this is not in accordance with the rules of business, so I will not give him the floor. He will receive the text as soon as the views of the groups are presented. The position of the LDS – I say this for the third time – will be presented by Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u34	The President, a vote on the procedural proposal may be taken in accordance with the third paragraph of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u35	The position of the LDS Group will be presented by Anton Anderlich. We're continuing our session. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u36	Your Honor! It is clear from the request to convene this meeting, as well as from these introductory explanations, that it is a matter of presenting to the Slovenian public that the Government, the National Assembly and all institutions in the Republic of Slovenia have not done enough to safeguard Slovenian interests when it comes to the planned construction of the gas terminal in the Gulf of Tržaška, and that there are possible cross-border impacts that would be harmful to Slovenia and that everything must be done to prevent this. I myself agree that both the National Assembly and both governments have paid a lot of attention to this topic in the last four years. When I scrutinised the chronology, which was also published in the means of public information, it is more obvious that both the previous government and the current ones were currently monitoring and alerting the neighbouring country of Italy to the Slovenian interest, the Slovenian right to behaviour, to look into the documents they are preparing for the possible planning and construction of these terminals in our neighbourhood. It would be difficult to say that the National Assembly, including working bodies, parliamentary issues and other forms, has dealt more with any other issue than this. The view of this event also shows that we have been constantly informed, either at the will of the Government or because it was requested by Members, mainly by the opposition in the previous term, and in the current term, let us say, very balanced information and enforcement requirements on this issue. It is obvious that, at a certain stage, it is not possible for a neighbouring country to have an impact on certain decisions taken by individual countries in relation to the rules which are and the internal arrangements of each country. However, when this phase is completed, and in the light of the Treaty on European Union and our joint commitments, there are times when we can also make use of other remedies, first political of course and then other legal remedies. After what we now know, it is obvious that we have not been successful in bilateral talks, and that Italy is unilateral, of course, their right, but without having informed the neighbours, even after the requirements and due regard for the documentation, there is obvious doubt or suspicion, or that the documentation was prepared professionally, correctly and also that it was presented to the public, as such, when it comes to harmful environmental impacts, not only in the immediate surroundings, but also in a cross-border manner. Here came new moments, and we are interested that today we are indisputably clear that everything must be done, that interstate talks should continue, as well as, of course, through the European Commission, in order to come to an accurate conclusion of the facts and to prevent any construction that would be harmful to Slovenia or to that environment, which is probably not limited to Italy alone, Slovenia, and that Croatia may also have any influence in the wider region. The National Assembly recently adopted a resolution on the North Adriatic Strategy, which was also intended to try. Here, however, it is necessary to say that we have not done enough with this resolution, because I am firmly convinced and in the Liberal Democracy Club, that, on the basis of this resolution, we should give a formal initiative to both the Republic of Italy and Croatia and to anyone else to make a common document, we ratify a protocol that will allow everyone under the same conditions to care and protect both their own interests, their own environment and, of course, together with other regions or the whole area. I believe that these discussions will also contribute to the continuation of these activities, which is why, at the moment, the report, which the Government has sent as a follow-up to those 2006 conclusions and what is in the recommendations, conclusions, has also been prepared on the basis of proposals by the proposer or those who requested the meeting, the Environment and Space Committee, because it is indisputable that if we have a legal democratic state, which is indisputable, then we must take the path that is also possible under such democratic circumstances. I believe that some would like to be interpreted by Commissioner Potočnik, but this is not our concern and our competence in this National Assembly, but, given its responsible performance, this debate is held at other levels. I also believe that we would like to delay only the confidence of Minister Žarnic, who has taken a vehement and proactive approach to solving many issues, not only that, but a different path must be chosen for this. To do that, you have to tell the bob to write the interpolation or anything else. But to report through the fact that someone has not done enough means that he has abandoned the duty that he should have performed as a high official of the state. These are serious accusations, this isn't for some conversation out there in the lobby, you know, what you should and shouldn't have done. I believe that after a detailed reading, I am this, because I am also interested in the subject of material, I can read that it is true that we were all together, including the previous Government and the current Government in that part, that we would get documentation in time to sit together with the Italians and say a word together. Now, of course, there's another thesis, and now the Italians are going to be interfering with the port of Koper, but they're going to be interfering with the offshore area, and I don't know what it's all about. But we have one question on the table, that is, terminals in the Gulf of Markets and activities on the one hand and on the other. At the parliamentary club, we will support the Committee's proposals, as I said. Because we believe that on this path and even that the action will not be necessary, we will be satisfied with what is necessary, so we will safeguard Slovenian interests in this area. That is why we do not see any great need to place the credibility of the government and the minister at this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Procedural, Mr. Tanko. Did you want the procedure? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The second sentence of the third paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure shall be as follows. If the National Assembly decides that the opinions of the working bodies, the legislative and legal services or the government must be obtained, the chairman may terminate the agenda item under consideration and may also meet. If we want to get a complementary opinion from the government, complemented by the government's proposal with the latest agreements, then it is imperative that the meeting be suspended so that the Government completes its materials, either orally or in writing. I suggest verbally, because this will run faster, and I suggest that the President of the Government do so. Because yesterday the Environment Minister asked a question or you, as the Environment Minister at this time, know what Prime Minister Pahor and Berlusconi were talking about, answered no. Then he added that he knew only what had been published in public publications with one, two, three sentences. That's how much I know, three picks. At this meeting, the National Assembly decided to address the topic of the terminals in the Gulf of Tržaška, neither the Minister, in his introduction nor in a word, to learn what the last agreement of the President of the Government was, for example in the Libyan desert, could say a word about the agreement between our Prime Minister, Mr Pahor, and the Italian Prime Minister, Mr Berlusconi. I would like to know whether anything has been agreed with this coffee or with camel milk, which is relevant for the debate in the National Assembly and for the decision-making in the National Assembly. We are holding a debate on this point today, and we are taking decisions that will guide the Government forward. And if we do not have the basic data of the key substantive agreement, the agreement in four eyes, then the National Assembly may not be able to take credible decisions either. That is why we propose that, honourable President of the National Assembly, you put my procedural vote to the vote and that the National Assembly, by voting, decide whether or not the last agreement of the President of the Government with the neighbouring Prime Minister needs it for its work. I believe that this information will be relevant to the debate on gas terminals in the Gulf of Market. It is probably clear to both of us that the two Presidents of the Government are probably talking about something substantive and not something like this, and that is why you are proposing this to a vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. Tanko. You quoted the right sentence, that's what you should say. We have an opinion of the working body, we have an opinion of the legislative and legal service, we have an opinion of the government. The debate will show whether the Government has anything else to add or not. Whether this opinion is good enough or not, we will assess the Members here and we Members will also decide on the conclusions of these or other and complementary ones in this regard, so I will not interrupt the meeting. However, I inform you that I have informed the President of the Government or his Cabinet that there is a strong desire to be present at this meeting and, if possible, to attend this meeting. The government has made it clear and clear who will represent it in relation to this point of this call for an extraordinary meeting, and I cannot add more than that, so we continue to do so. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Breda Pecan. Brada Roast? She's not here. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary. Secretary of State with a co-worker. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we are taking a comprehensive view of this problem of terminals in the Gulf of Markets, and I have divided this view on behalf of the Group of Members into five points. First it's a historical one, but I'm going to introduce it a little differently than the representatives in front of me. Let me say that the issues began in April 2006 with questions from the Members and then with the urgent meeting of the Committee on Environment and Space, 18. 4. There were then four extraordinary and urgent meetings of the Committee on Environment and Space, including a meeting of the National Assembly, where we adopted one club of conclusions, guidance and responsibility for government and state bodies. Let me quote some of my colleagues as to what was said at those meetings at the time and which direction the debate was leaning. At the first session of the 18th. 4. 2006 The Committee on Environment and Space, on behalf of the signatories of Dr. Pavel Gantar, said: "Introductoryly, of course, I would like to look at who represents the Government, but I said my dissatisfaction. This meeting of the Committee as a matter of urgency we have called for the most competent, it is said, from the Ministry, at least two ministers, that is, the Minister for Environment and Space and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have certain views." Now we remember what we were up against a few minutes ago, or there must be someone here besides the Minister for Environment and Space. That was said on the 18th. 4. 2006 in the afternoon. First of all, I quote, Dr. Pavel Gantar: "If I am going to the content now, we can say in particular that developments concerning the planned installation of two gas terminals, one in the Equator of the Gulf of Tržaža and the other in Žavaje on the coast indicate on the one hand some transfer of various components of the Italian government or regional authorities, local authorities and also investors, and also as we can see from the dates and [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] slightly delayed and stupefying attitude of Slovenia. [[..]] After that, we can consider government representatives." What do we have today? To move on, I'm not going to comment on what happened before. Mr Aurelio Juri, who said: "This is a shallow sea and for this shallowness and this shallowness speaks in favour of every ship, I have warned you for the last time, which you cannot put out except by sinking, this place cannot be tolerated and must not be accepted. There's already another question for tankers. Tankers can be extinguished in a different way and for oil, when it comes to oil, of course, and there are ecological disasters here too, if they happen in the case of Elson Valdes, we have a bigger dimension, but when the incident occurs, you can turn it off, while the liquefied gas tanker, when it comes to the erosol [[?]] You can't turn off the release except by sinking. This fact suggests that you must have a depth deeper than the size of a tanker if you want to accept such a monster. Last time we said that in this story our diplomacy was too slow, the emphasis on "graduation". However, in this case, with our diplomacy - we must not ask it ourselves - to Parliament. And so on. At the same meeting on 18.4.2010, Mrs Nives Batolič said: "I would first welcome on behalf of all civil initiatives from the coast. We think the problem we're here for is beyond all political options. Regardless of which customers we belong to, we have decided to act against the terminal non-partyly, in the sense that we are looking at what is negative, starting with the quality of life. The quality of life will deteriorate for all inhabitants and locals. We could then include the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Tourism, immediately, because the fall in tourism revenues will occur if tourism ever occurs. The prices of real estate will decrease, we have already talked about fishing, virtually all the economy on the coast will suffer, where not only primary but also secondary effects will be devastating for us. Young people already have a problem with employment, and many of them Ljubljana is the only way to get a job. In the event of such an ecological disaster, I don't know where they're going to move. We forget that the Slovenian sea is much smaller than the Croatian sea..." and so on. The next speaker who was at this meeting, Mr Lobnik, said: "Honored! The Executive Committee of the Environmental Protection Council has written to you our views, which have also been supported by the Committee on Sustainable Development at the Slovenian Academy of Science, the Committee on Environmental Protection at the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts and the Slovenian Association of the Roman Club. I would stress that the problems are both political, professional and economic. Perhaps these two terminals are an opportunity for Slovenia to appear as an equal interlocutor with Italy and Croatia in the strategic long-term development of the North Adriatic Sea and, above all, the sensitive Gulf of Markets. That this is a political problem, it's clear. However, that the European Union we are members of also gives us the right to participate so politically. Secondly, it is true that our profession in front of Italy is possible and it is necessary to tell them that this mercury that will rise because of construction will also be obtained by the Italians, as this is going in that direction. And thirdly, I think it's time to start thinking by 2050 about how this part of the port is going to develop, and then the case of an increase in the number of ships." Now let me read a brief thought from Mr Franc Yuri: "Thank you very much, Mr President. I thank you, too, on behalf of the Coordinating Committee of the Local Communities and the Civil Initiatives of the Slovenian Istria for inviting us to this meeting. And I would continue where my colleague stayed when she said that we could actually exchange information more effectively also on the basis of the information we have or have had by non-governmental organisations. Let me confirm this argument by the fact that already on 10 February, as you know, the purpose of the construction of the terminal in the Gulf of Markets was published in Il Piccolo. After February 10th, all the documentation you requested and then received from the Italian Minister of the Environment was made available. We received it, or I personally, as a journalist, I received it 14 days before our minister, by asking Italian colleagues from the VVF or the Italian Green to forward it to me." Then I propose that we now ask a colleague who was not yet a Member at the time to do so for our own or for our Prime Minister to obtain material. Allow me to present another message from our colleague, Mrs. Brede Pecan, who said there [[18.4.2006]] "And here it is most appropriate to say that we too do not agree with such energy planning in the EU, because it is also because the representatives of the association or, say, the associated civil initiatives and local communities would suggest that the entire North Adriatic area be declared an ecologically sensitive and protected area. I think it's one of the right paths or the right step." And now, if you will allow me, at the next meeting of the Committee on Environment and Space, which was held on 26.5.2010, Dr. Pavel Gantar said on behalf of the applicants of that first request: "I would only say the reasons for the reference. We ourselves at the LDS Club, as well as to monitor in some detail developments concerning the planned and planned construction of both LDS terminals for liquefied natural gas in the Gulf of Markets and in its coastal area. We estimate that some of the procedures are already at this stage to require a more serious, more determined response from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so that in some ways the initiative for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is meant to encourage the Government to take action not to be in a situation where the Government of the Republic of Slovenia could no longer interfere in this process on the basis of the European acquis. Allow mellows. What did we ask for 10 minutes ago? To also get a relevant response from the Prime Minister of the Government, who is talking in Libya about this matter and has the right, but it is only right that we are informed. Even more so, it would be better to inform the Minister, his environmental portfolio minister, who unfortunately does not know anything about it. And I can just say that in the SDS, we are not going to attack this minister for those things he's not guilty of. We just want the Minister to be informed, and we demand the same information. If the minister can't give them to us, then the one from the government who goes to the minister of the environment or the mediator, which is nothing wrong, should be informed by the minister of the field and, if not, by Parliament. And that is also our purpose. So much for that first part. I would also like to quote that section, which was the 16th regular meeting of the Committee on Environment and Space 23.1.2008, where Dr Stojič said as follows: "I would like to present to you the results of the study of the report on environmental impacts on the cross-border impacts of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets. The report was made on the basis of separate studies, which were today in the production of the most important scientific research institutes of Slovenia such as:" and these include: "the marine biological station of the National Institute of Biology, the Institute of Biology, the Institute for Fisheries of Slovenia, Kronos, the Institute of Tourism, the regional development centre of Koper, the Faculty of Construction and Geodesy, the Faculty of Chemistry and Chemical Technology, the Faculty of Transport and Maritime Affairs, the Faculty of Maritime Transport of Portorož and other companies listed." This is called professional analysis, but in this analysis, the content is the main part, and this is what the long-term impact on sediment resuspension is talking about, which I think is crucial, because of the long-delayed mercury in the Gulf of Markets, this mercury begins to appear in the food chain from lower forms to higher, so that it eventually also passes into fish that are part of human nutrition. This brings mercury to a man and threatens him with it. This impact can also be assessed as destructive. Of course, we cannot make accurate predictions about this, but with great probability, we can find that there would be a risk of living silver in the food chain and a great threat to human health. So this is an expert analysis, an expert expertise on the planned construction that has been presented and still exists. This is said to be serious and therefore it is not serious that we cannot get all the information in Parliament and that the Minister also does not know all the information or at least the latest and current and now item 2 of this presentation by the SDS Group would like to say the following. One of the important reasons for our request is the meeting of the Slovenian Minister for the Environment and the Italian Minister for the mentioned area 24.5. in Trieste, where, I will tell our Minister, Vehementally, as told by an Italian colleague: "Italy has completed the environmental verification process of the projects of the incineration plant in Žavaje, including in relation to Slovenia. We estimate that we have responded comprehensively to all the numerous Slovenian requirements many are also justified." Apparently, some of them were unjustifiable for her. The Italian government will decide on this on Thursday. After more than two hours of talks on the market perfection with Slovenian Environment Minister Rok Žarnič in Trieste, the issues were closed. That's what was said. And now let's move on. Today, we have learned that, so it has been said, already in 2009, an Italian conclusion was reached that these procedures were essentially concluded and our Minister has carried them out 14 days ago. Now we can ask ourselves who was hiding this information. Whether it was a secret or a secret diplomacy, which is very modern in Slovenia and is still being carried out today, that we cannot find out what our minister was talking to Italian, that is more than secret diplomacy, that is hiding. Here, of course, we can ask ourselves whether it is again a cow trade for the sale of the interests of the Republic of Slovenia which, after all, proves that the arbitration agreement was not the first such case but, unfortunately, it has not proved to be the only one. A peaceful soul can be asked here, but where is the European Commissioner for the Environment, where is the European Commissioner for the Environment, I am not talking about the name where the European Commissioner for the Environment is? If indeed those sediments of mercury such as the expert committee have found that they can rise, that they can also come into the food chain, where the European Commissioner for the Environment is, that I am not saying that there should still be a number of other ministers. These are questions that, of course, we have no answer to. The following, of course, here, has already been mentioned, but I do not think it is a pity if we repeatedly repeat why the Italian Minister praised our Minister Rok Žarnic, who is still new in this area, we are aware that he is cooperative as opposed to the former Minister, Mr Erjavac. What is the problem now, or because Mr Erjavec then spoke of cross-border influences? In addition, the question may be asked here, when do representatives of a foreign country praise a country, in this case our country, when the representatives of the Italian State praise the representatives of our country? Or when our representatives ask unpleasant questions or when they accept their views or perhaps even that they do not know all the information because other representatives of the State hide it to them? I think they probably won't commend our representatives when they ask unpleasant questions, probably in some other case. Moreover, at this point we do not know what the official position of the Slovenian Government is. In the situation as we are and this situation is such that the Italian Minister has put our Minister in a corner because they no longer have anything to talk to us because they have accepted everything. If the minister knew all the information or not, it's increasingly asking the question after that event on TV. Besides, if the minister didn't have all the information, I don't know what else he had left than to listen and maybe even nod, he didn't have any other information left. That's why we're here for government representatives to tell us, but apparently someone knows something, the minister hasn't told him, and we can't invite him to the National Assembly, so we probably can't. Not so long ago, I think, three months ago, one of our fellow Members from Primorska convinced us of a terrible view through the window of his living room, if there are gas terminals, and now, of course, everything is quiet. The Minister doesn't have all the information, and we could say Minister Rock is nothing. I also want to know where all the environmentalists, all of whom, four years ago, have unitedly found that such terminals would be very harmful for Slovenia, for the Slovenian Sea, because it is intertwined, etc., and the sediments of mercury and so on. We miss this, so we had to make a request for a meeting in the SDS, because no one else has this initiative, and there were so many indications why everything is dangerous. I haven't heard from any environmentalists, Mr. Lipič. I also have in mind a government job that cares about the environment, but none of it, they're all quiet. When we request and want to have comprehensive answers, when we demand that the President of the Government, who last talked about these matters with the Italian case at the highest level, not be able to get it. I don't know how this guy can explain what we're hiding now? This is no longer a silent diplomacy, it can also be trade if you want to in the worst sense and the third foundation of this view and this presentation of me is the role of the Commissioner of the European Union for the Environment. If all of this is as bad as it has found, or at least roughly, that expert commission, which could come from the scattering of this living silver that is in the mud, then at least the Commissioner for the Environment should come forward, if not someone else, and attract some other Commissioner for Health to the European Commission. None of that. What did this Commissioner do? Accidentally, Dr. Potočnik, who's from Slovenia, is just an accident, it's a naked case, but what did he do? Nothing. He didn't even call for coordination, but the real coordination he was in charge of and should, as far as I know, not. Now it's June, he hasn't called it in, he hasn't had time, but he's had time to talk about the arbitration agreement. That's what he had time for. Now I ask you, how much does the arbitration agreement have with the environment? How many gas terminals do they have in the European Union? I'm sure terminals have more than an arbitration agreement, but he's got time for that, and he doesn't have time for that. Therefore, in the SDS, we do not take the view that the Commissioner of the European Union is the Commissioner of all European Union countries, not Slovenia. That's not true. I'll tell you why we think so. Not so long ago, Italian Transport Commissioner Antonio Tajani found time to represent Italian views on the wines in Slovenia. And our Minister of Transport spoke to the Commissioner of the European Union, asking him to stop the six-year-old guilt to introduce weekly, because it was in Italy's interest. Can the Italian Commissioner represent Italy?Oh, my God! Of course, because he knows where he came from, because he knows, as an Italian, he has to represent his own country. In Slovenia, however, some obviously do not know when they come to Europe and forget where they came from and who named them. Our Minister of the Environment could also call for coordination. He doesn't need to be defined or he's in favour or against, I'd just call for coordination what he's in charge of. He didn't do it, he won't find the time to call this coordination, and maybe help Slovenia a little bit. He doesn't have to stand up to Italy, he'd just call for coordination, but he's not. The fourth point on which we justify our debate is investment in the Adriatic. Italy has once become a party to the enlargement process of Luka Koper, so they have said that they will probably not have any special problems in order to get Luke a green light, of course, when we are full of civil initiatives, they would not even have to do much. But, even more, the Italian government has asked for an extension of this response time to give an opinion on the extension of the port of Koper. Now let's take a different look. Has Slovenia ever indicated any interest that the party is also in the process of extending the port of Trieste? Not at all. Even more. The Italian minister said that we are not even a party to the gas terminals procedure, neither one nor the other, we have nothing to talk to you about. What we have done is considered enough, and to understand each other, we do not condemn them, they represent their interests, the question is, if we represent our own enough, and we do not think so. That's why something has to be done. And given that we would warn you that we have adopted many documents in 2006, where we have committed the Government of that time to the activities relating to the construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets, it would be right that we should also now remind this government that there were commitments made at the National Assembly, including on the Committee on the Environment and Space to be held and still in force today. Those decisions have not been withdrawn, and this procedure regarding gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets has not been terminated, so this is still the case, so we have the right, on the basis of the decisions we have taken in this Chamber. Many of those who were here at the time and voted in favour - we are here today too. It is therefore incomprehensible that we cannot achieve this in order to obtain comprehensive information. And look, there's a man here who really wonders why the Italian minister praises our minister. Clearly, she found that she did not have all the information in the first place, so he probably had to be more quiet than he was. He was put before the fact. He was put before the fact. The European Commissioner obviously did not help him, because he did not call for coordination and should. Mr Anderlich, I should have called her in May and the European Commissioner did not call her. Mr. Žarnic spoke later. It was probably well-timed that our minister would probably also have the conclusions of that meeting, and the European Commissioner did not find time because he had another assignment at the other end of the European Union or even outside the European Union. These are the facts. These are the facts, Mrs. Breda Pecan. You had a choice of words before, but you weren't here. And the next 5th item on which we base today's meeting is Italy's determination not to take us into account in the projects relating to the Adriatic. They made it clear that they no longer have anything to talk to us. That's an understatement. But there wasn't much more, as I would say, sensibly told to our Minister of the Environment. Nothing much nicer. In a diplomatic language, it would be fitting to, but it's not. We don't have to talk to you anymore, we've done our part, and you can do whatever you want, the caravan goes on. Why such a vehemence? So far, we have not been used to acting like Italians. Even last year it was not detectable, but the Italians have really complied with our government's demands, our duties, they have provided material. Okay, now if it went through the press circuits earlier, it's, well, anyway, but the Italian government has forwarded it. Now, at one point, we have no business talking to you. Is it possible that the Italian government knows more than we know? Does he know what the outcome of the arbitration will be? Or do they know that if under international law we are going to get half the Gulf of Piran and we no longer have stock with the open sea, that is to say, we no longer have the status of the maritime state, which means at the final stage that we are no longer a relevant factor in the discussions on what is happening in the Adriatic Sea. Or maybe the Italians have always told us that, but that's how they tell us. And look, if this black scenario happens, let's leave the arbitration agreement now, the black scenario, that that mud that's contaminated with about 20,000 tons of mercury, that this mud rises up and that it infects the Adriatic Sea, then that laurel of the Slovenian sea that will remain for us will be infected with mercury. Probably not that laurel, if 20 thousand tons of mercury rises, is confused, as the expert commission found out, it's not my findings or findings in the SDS, it's the expert committee, so I read to you what, I didn't accidentally read the one, not everything, but what's very important, then this lab of the sea will also be infected with mercury. These are serious matters. and this is more than sufficient reason to request this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on this subject. Because in the SDS we want to answer the questions that are emerging. Our request is based on the conclusions of the Committee on Environment and Space from the past period. I said there were five extraordinary meetings and a National Assembly on the subject. If this is where diplomacy has worked or is working quietly, it is good that you report this to us at the meeting of the National Assembly, especially to the opposition, because government parties are supposed to be more informed, but obviously also to you, the minister, the district minister, is not well informed by the opposition. And that's why we asked this session to pour ourselves some pure wine. And besides, it's only right for you to tell us what you've done. This, of course, is a question for the Minister and apparently also for the [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Minister, says the Prime Minister of the Government, because he is obviously also working in this area, not only on railways, but also in the field of terminals. [[...]] That's okay, nobody mind if someone works, but tell us what you've done so far, except that you had to silently listen to the Italian minister and swallow probably saliva. This is not an obvious statement to you, Mr. Secretary, so we understand each other. Of course, this is also a question of ministers and what else do you intend to do to the government in due time? This, in this document, in this timeline prepared by the Government and received to the committee just before, is said to be a meeting where it is also written that the law firm abroad is expected to deliver an opinion within three months, i.e. by the end of December 2010 on the quality and integrity of the document for the preliminary procedure, and also on Slovenia's ability to succeed the action. And then, of course, it would follow on. I'm afraid, and in the SDS, we're afraid that this date is too late anyway. If the Government really knows that in mid-2009 Italy has already decided to close the matter and that it does not want to talk to anyone, then why not just this December 2010 deadline? This is a year and a half to prepare a document that is not yet ready because it will take another six months to prepare. Now we are really wondering whether the Slovenian Government really knew that in mid-2009, on the Italian side, what was called the count or now this is an excuse for perhaps passing the blame on someone else. This is the issue and these deadlines, which are written here in the information on activists and measures concerning the problem of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets for 2010 and 2011. These hands aren't real, they're too late. If Italy has already accepted this matter in 2009, then this information should not be significantly different, then it is only for eye lubrication to hire, I do not know foreign law society and so on. Therefore, of course, the question is what do you intend to do in real time to make the measures realistic. And then, of course, this is also an obvious question to the government what did you order to our Commissioner? We have a Commissioner to represent the Republic of Slovenia as well. It does not need to be defined, but it helps to convene a coordination meeting, and it did not. May should have called him, but he didn't lobby him for an arbitration agreement. I think that gas terminals have much more in common with his work as European Commissioner for the Environment than with the arbitration agreement, which is probably not something that anyone will convince us about in the SDS. However, that the Commissioner could also represent the interests of his country was proved by Italian Commissioner Antonio Tajani. He has proved that he represents the interests of his country, follow his example. Therefore, it is necessary for our Commissioner to order that real coordination meeting to be convened as soon as possible, if it is not too late. Members also have the right to know, to obtain complete information of course also by the Slovenian public, there is probably no dilemma about this. We want answers because it is the interests of the Republic of Slovenia that we will not be surprised when again someone praises us from abroad. You know, it's very problematic when our representatives start bragging about how cooperative they are, how good they are, how good we are when we're patted on the shoulders. You have to ask yourself why and why the minister asking difficult questions was inoperable. And the fact that we're just going to order this expertise from a foreign law firm and pay her money, of course, by making a mistake, so late. However, the problem is that Slovenia should be represented in such cases before an arbitral tribunal and someone free of charge if he were from Slovenia. From abroad, he will be paid a fat price, and I would also like to have an answer if it is also meant here that we will order from a foreign law society because it will have to be paid and the locals could do it for free. So, this is one bunch of questions that, of course, we don't have enough answers, we have some answers but not enough, and also here things are changing very quickly and information that is or information that has come, that the Minister doesn't have the latest information about the conversation between our Prime Minister and the Italian is some new fact that puts the whole thing into some new light that needs new receptions, new approaches. That is why our demands for the Prime Minister to come. Last but not least, if these gas terminals were to stand there, the fact that was found by the expert commission, which was made up of a very wide range of experts, that this mud, which is in the Adriatic Sea at a very small depth, because the Adriatic Sea here is very shallow because of the influence that ships and construction will have, and to poison the entire sea, that it can pass into the food chain of fish and then also humans, will remain. This will not choose a man from the opposition or from a government party, but will apply to all the same. The view mentioned by our fellow Member is likely to remain the same. It won't be any different. Either it's with a quiet diplomacy or some loud diplomacy. But everything must be done to take into account all the protection aspects. It's about cross-border influences. We've already figured that out. There's no point in discussing that. However, Slovenia is a relevant factor here, and it is also clear. Now it's just a question of whether or not we're going to put this into effect. Following recent events, Slovenia does not seem to be applying its status here as a relevant country for talks when it comes to cross-border influences, including in our territory. In fact, we also miss all these environmentalists, who were very loud four years ago, who said their starting points, the same. They warned us about the danger, but they're not here today. Today, it seems that we must remain silent in the National Assembly, and we must not ask any questions. But if we ask you a question, you laugh at us. However, if you can do so in the National Assembly to tie your mouth to the Members, then there will be a terrible conclusion when the Italian minister tells our Minister that she has nothing to talk to us. He was the one who found out that Slovenia had nothing to talk about. However, there is no silence and reference to the Rules of Procedure or to its own interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. That's where he's really going. And then there we show our strength that we have. And we are also wasting what we have, rather than getting relevant information today, taking decisions, giving support to the government to negotiate that it be firm in its views. No, no, we can't do that. We don't understand this in the SDS, so we requested this meeting. We expect to receive relevant information. If we don't get them that way, we'll get them something different, only this information won't have that weight anymore, because our government won't have that kind of support for work and even in providing its views, in support of positions. Then it will happen that there will be another minister or this one again from his colleague from the neighbouring country before the fact, and he will not have information about what is going on in the second segment. He'll be out of information. People of God, it just doesn't work. We hope that with this meeting we will be productive and that we will owe the government and give it some power. For the conclusions we reach in Parliament are certainly more powerful than a quiet diplomacy, where someone talks and does not tell the other members of his cabinet. We are confident that we will find out what was going on there in one way or another. We hope that this will not be a cow's trade, as was the case with the arbitration agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Procedural, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would ask that you hold back when the Members of our Group act on behalf of the Group of Members. There's no need for any exercise or makeup behind the back of our speakers. Secondly, I would like to draw the attention of the President-in-Office to Rule 237 of the Rules of Procedure, which states that the National Assembly may adopt a decision requiring the Government or individual minister to report to the National Assembly on the enforcement of laws, other regulations adopted by the National Assembly and on other measures and their powers and their effects. You are probably aware that the Prime Minister of the Government in Libya was there to discuss the so-called quiet diplomacy, that this agreement was made by the Minister of State, past the decision of the Government, past the announcement of the National Assembly. In fact, this introduces a new way of managing this country, a case-by-case way when all decisions are taken through all the collective bodies it has in that country to decide, both past the decision of the Government and decide in the Government and even past the National Assembly. I therefore propose that we obtain first-hand information as agreed between the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the President of the Government of the Republic of Italy two days ago in Libya. I'm sure you owe it to the honourable President. We are not talking here about some butterflies in Škofljica, we are not talking about other things, but about a project that has enormous cross-border influences. There, you may have found that it deeply interferes with the traffic corridors in the Gulf of Tržaška. And if we are not able in the National Assembly to ensure the participation of the one who has discussed this subject in private, to inform us of what he has agreed, then it is better that the National Assembly ceases the session and that it is enough that the President of the Government, who is familiar with us, is perhaps only through press conferences, media and others. I propose that you suspend the meeting, on the basis of this Article, if you do not wish to on the basis of any other Article of the Rules of Procedure and that we receive information on the arrangements in the last two days that have taken place [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to representatives of governments. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u43	If I don't comment on my supposed makeup up here, I won't comment on it. Once again, we have received the correct request, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, to convene an extraordinary session on the subject of the terminal, to shorten, we have the opinion of the Government, we have the opinion of the legislative service, we have the opinion or report of the parent working body. The government has forwarded a list of representatives to participate. This meeting is due tomorrow. That is why we have suspended the regular session, so that we can have a regular session, we have all the conditions to discuss this. What's the government gonna tell us here? Whether as representatives, ministers or secretaries of state or anyone else, whether he shows up here or not, we do not know, because we have not even completed the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We haven't even started the debate yet, because after the opening presentation [[?]] Neither did the minister. That is why, of course, we will continue to present the views of the groups of Members, and in the end, we will find, in the form of conclusions that are such, that we may also impose something or something else or not in relation to, in my opinion, this time a rightly convened meeting on the issue of terminals in Tržaška, at this moment mainly in the coastal area and potentially also in offshore terminals. This is where the story ends. And we're moving on with the session. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franco Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and fellow Members. This time, the Slovenian Democratic Party convened a meeting on the theme of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets. In the Parliamentary Group, we really welcome the single performance and united effort of all Slovenian parliamentary parties, i.e. also the opposition in favour of greater environmental quality and security for the border population living in the Gulf of Markets. We are very pleased to see that, until recently, also from the types of opposition SDS, a few voices of understanding have come to the installation of gas terminals in the Gulf of Tržaška and even in Cyprus, that this party has finally united and joined us in opposition to the planned locations of gas terminals. This should not mean, and we sincerely hope, that our feelings at these first performances are misleading us, that the meeting is more than a serious effort to prevent the construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Tržaška, aimed at the price of demagogy, the assessment of the arbitration agreement with Croatia, the criticisms at the expense of the Slovenian Commissioner or the evidence of the Government's alleged lack of conduct on the issue that has been taking place since winter 2006, not since April 2006, Comrade Petan, but I would say since February, so a story has started early in civil society and you have rightly found that the issue was actually raised by civil society and then landed in the National Assembly. At that time, the governor of the country of Furlania of the Julian Region, Mr. Riccardo Illy, announced in an informal dinner somewhere near Koper the then Slovenian Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Dimitrij Rupl and Slovenian public, in confidence the planning and construction of two gas terminals in the Gulf of Tržaška, one "off shore" at sea in the middle of the bay only 500 or as we have heard today 600 metres from Slovenian territorial waters, another "off shore" in the industrial zone in Žavaje near the State border, where there are already oil terminals, incinerators, chemical warehouses and other industrial facilities. The first rather pale or confused or even slightly favoured response of our highest diplomat and a prominent member of the SDS party was then followed by the mobilization of the public, civil society, environmentalists and affected local communities on both sides of the border. The petition against the gas terminals in this joint bay was published in Mladina, among the authors of which was also a member who was just telling you chose over 40,000 signatures from Slovenia and Italy. There have also been a number of debates in this Parliament that have called for the rejection of interventions that would have called into question the continued fate of the North Adriatic ecosystem and the safety of navigation and the population today with the energy and other industrial infrastructures of the overburdened coast of the Gulf. The pressure of the public and the debate in Parliament encouraged the Slovenian Government to establish an inter-resortary expert group which, on the basis of the available data, found that building and operating on those gas terminals at selected locations and operating those terminals would also have potentially significant cross-border impacts and even potentially destructive. In the light of these findings, Slovenia requested an environmental impact assessment, in particular cross-border, taking into account its findings, since it was and is, as a direct neighbour, an interested party. The international conventions and European directives make this clear. At the time of Roman Prodi and then Minister of Environment Alfonso Peccoraro Scania, the Italian Government listened to comments and objections from local communities, such as the municipalities of Milje and the valley and Slovenia, so the decision or the issue of the necessary licences and consents was frozen. With the arrival of Mr Berlusconi's new government, the procedures for issuing an agreement on the construction of terminals were unfrozen and subsequently expedited, despite Slovenia's objections, as well as evidence of insufficient studies and analyses of environmental and safety aspects of both terminals discovered by environmentalists and even independent professionals in Italy, such as the cross-border movement of Alpe Adria Green and the technical omija, which brings together top university experts from Trieste and Slovenia, and which was initiated by the fire syndicate [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The Land of Furlania of July Krajina. [[...]] As a parliamentary group, we have mediated and enabled a meeting between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the technical ommisia mentioned above, so that the professional omism has become one of the interlocutors of our government. Unfortunately, neither the talks between the Minister of the Environment, the provision of Slovenia and the meeting of a mixed omija under the auspices of the European Commission helped. After Slovenia has announced the possibility of an action before the European Court of Justice, in so far as there is a lack of awareness of terminals and contempt of Slovenian comments, the Italian Government prefers to take a new, slightly push-up approach or a new anti-aggressive tactic, which opens up never-exposed requirements on the table and offers some kind of trade, with the aim of accepting the gas terminal in Žavaje and withdrawing the requirement to assess cross-border impacts at the level of the European Commission or to waive the action. What the two prime ministers in Libya said would be of interest to us. And it's a big deal. For the influences of the terminals are not and cannot be the personal story of the two heads of government, but silent diplomacy in our opinion is out of the question. That is why we also expect to be familiar with the content of the conversation as soon as possible, and we believe that what we hear and what we receive in this National Assembly is the most productive. So the government's report and information is official to us. Bilateral discussions between the Prime Minister in the circumstances of the meeting in Libya can certainly be media and politically interesting, but because they have neither been confirmed nor authorised, they cannot affect the official positions we receive today by the government. In this attempt, the Italian government called it trading, revived a slightly forgotten offshore terminal plan in the middle of the Gulf and demanded a cross-border assessment of the State Spatial Plan or Spatial Development Plan of Port Koper, including a third pier. With this very legitimate request, the Italian Government acknowledged the potential existence of harmful effects and automatically confirmed the validity of Slovenian requirements for the assessment of cross-border impacts of terminals, and, if I am allowed, a suggestion, advice to our government, including, in particular, ambitious spatial planning in the port of Tržaška, where facilities with significant potential environmental impacts are envisaged, also cross-border. The spiral of mutual requirements for a comprehensive environmental assessment of the cross-border impacts of the expansion of both ports, which, of course, imagine exclusively tactically, as factors and hibitions of the Slovenian Government in the further requirements for the Jubilee Terminal, is not a bad option at all. In fact, it is very useful, welcome and in the public interest, in the interest of the local population and its health on both sides of the border. That is why we welcome this assessment, this mutual assessment of all problematic interventions, and we support it. Therefore, what would be the defence of the expert assessment of the environmental impacts of the new spatial interventions in Tržaška and Koper port? With mutual consideration, for example, what is the actual state of the Gulf Bottom? How many heavy metals are in Mulja and what would it mean for the quality of water and the environment, the spatial expansion of both ports? She'd be [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] owner, so let us not accept the logic of trading at the expense of human health and safety. [[...]] In the Group of Members, we really believe that there is no reason to change the views already adopted on the issue of gas terminals. The assessment of cross-border impacts, both terminals and any interference that potentially causes such impacts, should be maintained. On the basis of well-prepared documentation, it is necessary to continue the proceedings before the European Commission, including those necessary for the action before the European Court of Justice. However, the Italian Government shall communicate and propose a comprehensive agreement on further actions or investments in the Gulf of Markets, taking into account the mutual interests of not only governments or economic terminals, but also, in particular, the affected local population and the local community. In this light, assessments of the impact of the expansion of both ports are very welcome. The Zares Group will only support the positions that go in this direction. Finally, a very current note concerning us would say even more than the content of the current debate itself. While today we will discuss disputed gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets, our court has agreed to the demands of foreign companies wishing to build a gas terminal in Cyprus alone, just a thousand metres from the city beach. Which, apparently, will be able to proceed with procedures for obtaining the required consent. We propose to the Government and the Minister of the Environment to identify themselves as soon as possible for this experiment, taking into account the position of this National Assembly, as recorded in the resolution of the Adriatic Strategy. The seriousness of our views on gas terminals in Italy will be confirmed or not, even in relation to this issue. Otherwise, the Group of Ambassadors does not have a negative position on the submitted decisions, but at the same time we have heard from the Government and we have received extensive information from the Government and have ensured that activities continue in this direction. It therefore seems unnecessary for us to vote and endorse such conclusions. In this direction, the government is already working, and even in the coalition, those who have consistently defended the opposition to such locations of gas terminals will also follow and ensure that what Minister Žarnic said and what is the strategy and also the tactics of our Government will be consistently realized in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u46	Havela beautiful Mr Vice-President, honourable Minister, other representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. We have already made it clear in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that we are absolutely opposed to gas terminals in the Gulf of Tržaška, and we are also wondering where this time will lead, currently so popular quiet diplomacy. In our view, the fundamental problem of the Gulf of Markets and the good half million people living directly with it is that in the relatively closed Gulf of Swim Sea, with already very exhausted environmental capacity, it is no longer safe to accept the ever-increasing emissions of urbanisation and economic development, new and new burdens are still planned without serious checking how many of these environmental burdens this space can bear. I am very concerned about the fact that air measurements at the Lovarn site of Croatia, located right in the centre of the main sources of harmful emissions, are directly catastrophic. They point to the heavy burden of the Gulf of Markets with the effects of ozone or so-called photomog at a time of death, when from twenty million Italy gathers huge amounts of greenhouse gases over the Gulf of Markets, which stop at the high edge of the Strait and are enriched with local emissions from the Žavalje Iron Plant, from the waste market incinerator and near the cement plant from Koper Kemiplas from the emissions of road traffic around the bay of 3,800 ships in the Tržaška port and 2,650 ships in the port of Koperska. Members of the Slovenian People's Party express serious concern about the health of the local coastal population and the population of the entire Gulf of Markets, which is already living in an unhealthy environment. Large uncertainties also arise with regard to a 40km gas pipeline connecting the terminal to the mainland and for which it is not yet clear whether to take place on land or on the seabed. The latter causes a strong lifting of the sediment in which a lot of mercury is found. It is clear that the operation of the terminal would have an impact on human health due to the direct exposure of dangerous chemicals, including chlorine, petroleum derivatives and methyl mercury, which is the most toxic form of mercury for humans and accumulates in organisms and concentrates in food chains. Already a small increase in mercury in sediment and water greatly increases the concentrations of mercury methyl in fish. Live silver, which is highly toxic, has a negative impact on embryo development, which may also mean that fish will disappear from restaurants and from our daily diets. The construction of the gas terminal in Žavaje would put at risk the Fat Rtice, which is already affected by the pollution of the bay. And it's on the Fat Rite that plans to expand the capacity to treat our children. In the SLS Group, we would also like to point out that the local population has repeatedly warned that the bottom of the Gulf of Markets is extremely burdened by various unactivated explosives from time II. world wars and that any underwater activities can lead to major accidents. It is also still unclear what impact the terminal will have on Slovenian tourism and Slovenian fishermen. The terminal will certainly cause greater freight traffic after the Gulf and manoeuvre of huge gas tankers. However, an increased presence of the Italian army is also expected for the purpose of protecting the terminal. This will also significantly increase exposure to oil derivatives and biocides. We are therefore talking about cross-border influences that cannot be excluded, so we expect far more from the authorities than just silent diplomacy that does not produce fruit. The Slovenian People's Party does not care about the Slovenian Sea and, in particular, in the current situation, it is necessary to be irresistible to the interests of other countries, which must by no means come before our Slovenian interests. Just like we don't give our sea, we won't let it poison us. In the SLS we also stress that we need to look at and see in particular the long-term consequences of this project, perhaps the studies can now show terminals as safe, but they will soon become more time and risk. In addition, it is necessary to know that there are several weak articles on such a terminal that, due to pressures, fatigue of material or poor material that have not been subject to sufficient control before installation, may always be released. We could even list such dangers where it is possible for some experts to wave their hand, but these infidelities exist. A disaster may never have occurred, but do we really want to take a risk and make sure of it on our own? We have a live case in recent months in the Gulf of Mexico where high oil technology, global multinational and all American knowledge can do nothing against oil spills, where a major ecological disaster has occurred and continues to increase. Unfortunately, in this case too, there is a strong interest in capital, which once again takes the right to decide on the health and safety of people, all for more profits and facilitate the way to it. In the parliamentary group, we will fight the terminals in the Gulf of Markets because we are convinced that people have priority over environmental bombs. So in the SLS Group, we're wondering where all these environmental burdens lead to? What will happen to our coastal area and, above all, what guarantees come from the Italian side? It seems that for Slovenia and our opposition Italy does not even agree, let alone give any guarantees or any adjustments to our wishes. I'm sorry, that's what it looks like. What are the real facts, but we don't know much about them. Above all, we do not know what they are talking about or what our Prime Minister and the Italian Prime Minister have agreed on; this is not what the Slovenian Minister for the Environment knows. However, since we obviously cannot count on any intervention by the European Commissioner for the Environment, with the excuse that he is responsible to the whole Union - is Slovenia not therefore in the European Union? - we estimate that it is better to call on the entire EU Commission at least to develop a specific strategy to place large infrastructure and energy projects in the area of European countries, based on the principles of equality, environmental acceptability and common benefits for countries and countries of a particular European region. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the Information on activities and measures clearly identifies the infringements of the Italian side. From the information and the media, Italy’s unequivocal decision to continue with the placement and construction of terminals in the Gulf of Tržaška, irrespective of the views of the Republic of Slovenia and the relevant profession, both on our website and on the Italian side. We therefore expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with international rules and EU legislation, to conduct the procedures with which Slovenian interests will be safeguarded, in such time limits as to enable the Slovenian interests to be exercised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Franz Jurš.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the Minister with colleagues, as well as you, colleagues and colleagues! The problem of building gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets has long been the case. Various ideas for the construction of such and different gas terminals have been faced since the 1990s. However, the most current story has been going on since 2006, when the Italians announced in their newspapers the intention to build two huge liquefied natural gas terminals. As usual, the civil initiative reacted faster and more decisively than the then government and the competent ministry and drew attention to the ecological dangers posed by terminals. It was only after the warnings and protests organised by environmentalists that the government decided to protest against such unilateral decisions by our neighbours. In the DeSUS Group, we support the decision of the current Government to bring an action against Italy against the planned gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets if Slovenia finds environmental impacts that are not in line with the rules of the European directives. The fact is that we must succeed with a possible action, so we suggest to the Government that such an action be well prepared and that the necessary requirements be examined in detail. At this point, we also welcome the unified functioning of the Government and the National Assembly on the issues of terminals in the Gulf of Markets and its hinterland and support the joint and coordinated operation also further. Information on what the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Italy talked about in Libya would also be good to know in the National Assembly. We believe that the government's activities so far in the field of the implementation of the procedures for cross-border environmental impact assessment have been appropriate, as all the expertise has been prepared. The procedures for public disclosures of the documentation in Slovenia were conducted transparently, technical consultations were carried out and positions were sent to Italy in a timely manner. We note from the DeSUS Group that Italy has not taken written Slovenian initiatives on the course of the pipeline on land, in order to avoid impacts during the construction of the mercury sediment, which are also partly cross-border, and to design technical measures to reduce impacts because Italy is unable to implement the land route. We also note that Slovenia's views were only partially taken into account in the decision on Žavalje. At the same time, there are two other procedures for cross-border assessment of the Trieste, Construction and offshore terminals. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and that Slovenia has yet to submit comments on the new material. [[...]] The DeSUS Group supports the continuation of the activities of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to address the problem of gas terminals and therefore fully supports the conclusions of the Government submitted to the National Assembly and adopted at the meeting of the Government on 10 June 2010. According to the information we have at our disposal, we also welcome the active engagement of the European Commission to address the problem in particular in 2010. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the position of Slovenia on offshore terminals must be re-broken in Italy, through diplomatic channels, in order for Italy to take it seriously. The Republic of Slovenia must clearly request a negative decision from Italy regarding the envisaged offshore terminal. However, on the basis of past experience with unilateral moves by our Government in the DeSUS Group, we are not convinced of the success of diplomacy. Let us recall that, at the end of May, the Slovenian Prime Minister also spoke to Italian Prime Minister Berlusconi about gas terminals. They agreed to speak again when they examined the possibilities for gas terminals or both insisted on certain standards that no country would go into. This second conversation has already taken place, as we all know. The Italians are not a reliable interlocutor, and the Italian Environment Minister's last statement has proved. Talks with Slovenia about the gas terminal in Žavaje are closed for Italy. Obviously, Italy can afford to unilaterally conclude the debate on environmental impacts when it sees it as a time to do so. The fact is that we need to maintain an ecologically important area in the Slovenian Sea, so we need to address all projects and plans relating to the North Adriatic, including the ports of Koper and Trieste, in a way that will be sustainable and that environmental objectives will not be compromised. As I have already mentioned, we do not have a negative position on the submitted decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State. The position of the Italian Minister and Italy has been clearly expressed with a sentence, all procedures have been completed and the terminal will be completed. I think we can worry about that. The explanation was that they have responded comprehensively to all the numerous Slovenian requirements, some of which were also justified. Italy has completed all procedures for verifying the environmental adequacy of the gas terminal in Žavaje. It notes that they have also responded in detail to all the Slovenian requirements, and mainly the environmental impacts have been verified mainly for the sake of their own citizens. On this statement, our Minister explained to the press that he would report in detail to the Government and that it would take a further decision. All actions must be directed in the spirit of good neighbourly relations. As we can see, the Minister did not have the authority and clear position of government, because otherwise the answer would be clear and decisive. The story of gas terminals is four years old. However, our government has always been too careful and too confident that without the consent of Slovenia such a project cannot be implemented. In the opinion of the Government, it reacted quickly enough. However, in some professions, there is also a lack of determination. Italy has taken unilateral decisions despite warnings from the European Commission that the Directive is being violated [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Slovenia on the cross-border effects of the terminal on the environment. [[...]] The Italian Minister praised Minister Rok Žarnic and commended his constructive cooperation, which, as she said, has led to the criticism of the previous Minister's sincere cooperation, why, I don't know. As can be seen from the material, Dr. Žarnic did not act in accordance with the conclusions of the 2006 National Assembly and did not represent the interest of the Republic of Slovenia and the decision of the Government. I believe that such a claim must sober us because I doubt that the Minister would dare to do otherwise than he was advised to do. In addition to all that is said and heard, we can ask ourselves why the Italian Commissioner, I think Commissioner Janez Potočnik has not clearly defined around the terminals, since it is, after all, his department. All his forecasts about the activity were not carried out in such a way that his word was not in the direction of Italy’s unilateral decision. All too little about this is what our MEPs have done in this respect. After all, this is also their task to protect the interests of Slovenia. And when the Italian minister was asked by the press when she left the European Commission or talked to Commissioner Potočnik about the gas terminals, she answered briefly, not at all. There is a great deal of emphasis on the statements made by the Italian minister, some of which are disturbing, but these are statements made by all the media, and the statements made by our negotiators are somehow mysterious and have influenced a kind of mistrust that has lasted for four years, that is not since yesterday. Apparently, the boat is abandoned by the powerful and responsible, only to suit the neighbor as always.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here's the minister, Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, honourable Members, Madam Members, I will be very brief. I'm very sorry that there's obviously been some kind of misunderstanding that I have to explain. At the time of yesterday's show in echoes, and in a short time perhaps one day, I haven't had the opportunity to meet with the Prime Minister to learn from him about the content of the talks, but I read a statement he made to the press question, and I also said it frankly yesterday that I don't know the contents of the discussions of the details, but I did what I read. Before the government meeting today, before this meeting, the Prime Minister and I sat down briefly to ask him some more about this. He told me that he had recently met informally with President Berlusconi that he had started some discussions, but that when he reached a concrete conclusion, he would immediately inform both the National Assembly and the Government. And I understand it was some informal conversation between the two presidents, who I think in diplomacy is a perfectly normal flow. So I don't see here that the President of the Government would talk about anything, my personal evaluation, that would prejudge any activity of Slovenia in our harm. That's my understanding, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec has applied for the floor as a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, again. I have listened with interest to all the predecessors who have further lighted up some things, but I will also present some things during this opening period and perhaps open another debate through this. In particular, I would like to draw the attention of all my fellow Members to the fact that in the resolution we adopted the Adriatic Strategy in this Assembly in January of this year, on 17 December, and this in the eighth chapter clearly speaks of these projects that are taking place in the Gulf of Markets. And there's a clear diction. The National Assembly, for environmental, safety, transport and social reasons, opposes the installation of liquefied natural gas terminals along Slovenian territorial waters and in the wider Market Gulf, etc. We can't forget that. This is a document, a resolution which, of course, is referred to later by the government and is absolutely binding. Otherwise, it should be noted that we do not need the National Assembly if the resolution is not respected. And in the 9th decision, the National Assembly also instructs the Government to implement the guidelines of this resolution, as necessary, and at least annually reports to the National Assembly on the progress made in the preparation of the fourth chapter strategy as required. And we have confirmed this resolution by a majority, virtually 100%, except for one Member. We have received information in the material, as previously said, on the activities and measures related to the problem of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets, where many things are mentioned but nothing concrete, nothing about what the Commission has done during this period. It is interesting, however, that in this material, which we have in contrast to what we can read in the material on the government's website, speaks in the expected activities in 2010/2011, if we look at it well, this is the sixth paragraph, which is the beginning of the paper you have in your Members, the one you have brought to the table, otherwise the chairman of the committee will borrow it from his colleagues from the Ministry, writes if the government will decide on the basis of the final document for the transitional procedure and send it to the European Commission, etc. In the building that's on the government's side, it's true when the government decides to do so. I hope you understand the difference, otherwise it's only two letters, but once it says "when it decides" it means that it's a fact that we have in the material that we say "if it decides" which means it weighs or it's going to take a step further. Now, when we get these different documents, we really wonder if the ministry knows everything or maybe the minister doesn't even know what kind of stuff you're reading, and when you're reading this material, it's a matter of concern if someone says first that a particular matter will be decided when some documents are prepared. In the material that we have on the tables, he says if he decides to do so at all. So, this is already quite problematic for me, and even in this material, we finally have the conclusions of the government, which, once again in most of the conclusions, refers to the requirements that the Ministry of Environment and Space must meet as a host of activities in the event of placement, in the case of these mutual negotiations, in the event of coordination with this inter-departmental commission. On the other hand, we listen to the minister, who says yes, because the Prime Minister and I have not been able to meet, so I don't even know what I'm going to do. It is said that, on the one hand, the Government shall adopt a decision imposed on the Minister, who is disabled on the other hand because he does not have certain information. That's a little questionable, too. We do not know who is actually leading the negotiations in this case. However, when we read the materials that are available on the views of the Interdepartmental Commission and all that the Government has also addressed, it is true that the question is whether the National Assembly, when it adopted the resolution, has done anything or whether those conclusions of the 2006 meeting are applicable that the Government has to report on some measures, because there are some data in this paper that I think most Members do not really know and those who have not read are difficult to judge. But I'm going to do a few concrete things from this material that talk about the problem of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets and its back, talk about data and events from 2009 and say, 1. 9. 2009 is the Minister of the Environment, we know that we are talking about Mr Erjavac, he wrote to the Italian Minister and requested all additional documentation concerning the gas terminal in Žavaje including the pipeline documentation. In the next step, when we also received the position of the international non-governmental organisation Alpe Adria Green 28.8. and also received it from the Ministry with indications of suspected counterfeit documentation mainly in translation from the original Spanish material into Italian, this is also information. More interesting, however, is the following information. At the meeting of the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Italy between Mr Berlusconi and Mr Pahor in September 2009, there was a strong mutual willingness to cooperate to find a compromise solution to the problem for both sides. President Berlusconi said that nothing was yet definitive and said he was confident that the matter would be agreed on a bilateral basis and that the action would not be necessary. The Heads of Government have agreed that it is necessary for both Ministers of the Environment to meet. We support this, but later we have adopted a resolution that is not actually going in the context of what the prime ministers have been talking about, so it is possible to place. We adopted a declaration in January that terminals in this and this area are not acceptable. Now it is necessary to ask ourselves whether we are adopting something that is contrary to what the Government is talking about and not even to warn us, especially here we would ask the coalition Members whether we are adopting a resolution that the dead letters are on paper, because we are no matter how bilaterally the agreements are unfolding and talking about how certain projects would be placed in this Gulf of Markets, we are adopting a resolution in the National Assembly, which is exactly the opposite of what is happening in what you say after the new, silent diplomacy. This is not the most appropriate for one serious country in the European Union, whether we are deceiving Parliament or deceiving the Government, and it is true that something will have to be agreed here. On 2 October, the Italian Minister stated to Minister Erjavac that Italy had already completed the procedure for Žavlje, that it had accepted Slovenia's position and had taken it into account, according to the Minister. So, you closed the procedure. That was the message. We in the National Assembly have not been aware of this, regardless of whether we are adopting a resolution citing the Government or asking the Government to inform us of relevant and important events and conclusions. So it comes from a neighbouring country that they have already completed some procedures on something that we are discussing. In addition, she stressed that the so-called European Union Decision on trans-European energy networks, on priority energy facilities in the European Union, which included liquefied natural gas facilities and so on among the priorities of particular importance at European level. It also means "off-shore" terminals in the northern Adriatic. In the letter, she continued that the pipeline passing through the Gulf of Žava can be informed that there are no cross-border impacts, that "offshore" terminals will be consulted later and that the terminal in Žavaje, that Slovenian comments were taken into account for the terminal in Žavaje and so on. And that for Italy the cross-border consultation is duly concluded. In principle, I have no objection to such information, but we have not received this information in the National Assembly, regardless of the fact that we have conclusions which oblige the Government to report relevant data if it is not relevant to you that the neighbouring country has completed certain procedures and that we do not know anything about it, it is, however, questionable to me. In October 2009, this Interdepartmental Group, which participated in the installation of these terminals on our part, met and prepared a position. It says on 6 October that the said letter from the Italian Minister of the Environment of 6 October 2009 legally changes the situation, because it expressly and clearly rejects any form of strategic assessment of planned gas terminals, because it is project initiatives and not plans and because Italy first refers to the implementation of the European Union policy and to our duty, it says, with regard to energy solidarity in the European Union, which is based on the European Union regulation on trans-European energy networks. The legal group highlighted the issue of the consistency of EU policy and the Mixed Commission proposed to draw up an action against the European Commission, where it issued a regulation on priority trans-European energy networks. In the final stage, however, the legal group considers that there are several legal arguments for initiating the action against Italy. This was last October. And later, Minister Erjavec replied that he rejected all the information that Italy provided regarding offshore terminals and others, which was the end of the year. If we are evil, we can say that immediately after the new year we have found that Minister Erjavec is no longer suitable for the Minister of Environment and Space. Perhaps, though, the garbage in the Gulf of Markets affected the fact that Minister Erjavec had to pack. That's just for you to think about. Because dates are very symbolic. At that time, the Minister made it clear to the Italian parties that we are not talking on our part because the conclusions on this point are clear. This year we are reading, and my colleagues have already pointed out several times that the Minister herself said that nothing could be said with the previous Minister, but the current Minister is great and we are having a good conversation with him. That's a lot to think about. On 9 November 2009, as I said, there was a meeting in Brdo pri Kranj. The Italian Minister and Minister Erjavec exchanged views and, despite Slovenia's obvious and relevant concerns, based on violations of the European Union's legal order and the international convention on environmental impact assessment, Italy is not prepared to discuss any further. That was clear. And the Minister and the Minister didn't get close to each other. Very interesting. In Brussels on 26 January, it is said that following the adoption of this resolution in the National Assembly, there were also some clear indications that we have adopted a document which our Government does not seem to intend to implement in some way because Italy replied that the issue of the terminal in Žavaje is in line with their opinion, which they forwarded, closed and no longer wants to discuss mitigation measures. He does, but he also intends to close the proceedings for the offshore terminal, but with a positive opinion. I don't know what else we can negotiate with them if they explicitly give us their conclusions in the documents. I don't think we've gotten this information in the National Assembly so far. Perhaps our analysis, which this commission has done, says in conclusion, the Slovenian delegation notes that Italy understands very well the professional arguments that Slovenia is making, but Slovenia simply does not want to take into account. The Slovenian delegation notes that the European Commission has already sued Italy for failing to comply with the same strategic assessment directives in 2008 and that it has also received the action. Therefore, in the event of failure to comply with the relevant rules for the gas terminals envisaged, another action would not have had an additional effect with regard to the enforcement of the European acquis, as Italy had not yet had an appropriate transposition of this Directive in 2008. When I read this, the conclusion is that there is no point in suing them because the European Commission has already received a lawsuit once and for all, Italy has not responded and there are no legal consequences for it, and this means that even if we sue it, those terminals will be built, they will probably pay nothing and the caravan will go on. This is how this material, prepared by this Interdepartmental Commission, is read. But we're not familiar with it, that's the problem. Despite the documents that we have and that this National Assembly has been spraying. He goes on to say: The case is only important for Slovenia because of the short seashore, because of the threat to environmental objectives. We also heard about the short seashore in another similar debate, which took place in springtime and ended with an act which divided Slovenia. But even then it was about the short seashore, some things that affect why we are not in a particular negotiation or cannot be effective and so on. Finally, the Commission says: "In line with this, we propose that Slovenia prepare a document to initiate a preliminary procedure through the European Commission against Italy..." and so on. I wanted us all to know this because apparently the government doesn't get to know us at this time. We all understand that the time before the arbitration agreement has been inconvenient to say that we already have difficulties in this cross-border cooperation with some partners and that we are probably not some relevant party in the process, which is likely to worsen by the application of arbitration. Therefore, I believe that with this information the government did not want to familiarize itself with the National Assembly in the spring. But they are certainly very important, and I believe that, for you, the other fellow Members, as well, they are interesting. Maybe someone was familiar with it, but most of it, I don't think so. It is said that some problem is whether silent diplomacy is successful or not. And whether the documents we accept in the National Assembly are valid for someone or not, and that is the key part. Our desire to convene this extraordinary meeting was, above all, to have concrete answers to these relevant facts. And the answers to why this information has not yet come to the National Assembly. I think that there are certain things that the Minister is not aware of, as was heard yesterday, even though the Government commits him to negotiate, to prepare the starting points and to be a key actor in these stories. If we believe that someone has already agreed that, because of the wider interests of the European Union, European energy policies are already adopted, it is necessary to say this in the National Assembly and to propose that the resolution be supplemented and that Slovenia, in terms of economic interest, also has some of these. Otherwise, it will happen that someone outside our framework is going to set it up, whether we like it or not, and then, of course, we're going to have a hard time charging it later. All of these documents, which we have a chance to get acquainted with today, point in this direction. It's transparency and some rules of action in the country. If the National Assembly were to make decisions and decisions, people, as well as we Members, would expect them to be fulfilled, and we would be aware of this in some way. And that when certain documents need to be adapted, as well as resolutions, because we know that every thing can also change, we also change the laws in the light of the circumstances in which certain data can be obtained, with certain facts, not that it is hidden. In this case, the debate will take place at the place where it has already taken place for the previous documents and for previous resolutions. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Kek will be the first to speak in the debate between Members and Members, which we are about to begin.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. I was glad to hear from the SDS. I was a little surprised by the way in which this party's position was presented a few hours ago, which went this way, how only those last defenders were here before these gas terminals were installed and there are no more environmentalists or local communities or other Members. How typical of Slovenian, for politics, of course. All parliamentary parties oppose the establishment of gas terminals in places where they do not belong, and we all agree with the content discussed by the proponents. And I don't care who's the last to knock, that he's the most deserving, that he stopped something that's harmful, the main thing is that these things aren't down there, not in the Gulf of Markets, not in Cyprus. And when you mentioned Minister Žarnic's meeting with Minister Prestigiacomo, our minister promised her nothing. It is true, however, that she was brutally wrapped in a very beautiful form of her cocktail voice and beautiful body, saying that she would no longer talk to us. And that is why we expect our Government, and in this way I also understand this meeting today as a support to the government, as a pressure on the government not to give up, to remain undisturbed, not to trade. For it was felt on the part of Italy that trade had no arguments. And that's why investors had to edit data, so they would trade, so they want to give us something in return to let us let them do something. And if they block the expansion of the port of Koper in Cyprus, they should block it if that's why. If the reasons are to endanger the quality of life of people on the coast, it should be blocked. In this area, we must not trade in such a way that we leave something bad for them to leave us with something bad. But we are talking about all the strategic energy supply in the future, and this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Not so long ago, when we discussed this issue of gas terminals here in the National Assembly, that is, when we adopted a resolution on the Adriatic Strategy. At that time, it was noted that the reflections on this issue between Members were, however, different, which of course is nothing wrong. However, I was pleased when we adopted a resolution on the Adriatic Strategy and with a very clear dictatorship in chapter 8. Although there were desires for this chapter to be written differently and so on, there were various wishes but I was glad that the dictatorship was accepted as it was. However, even though one part of this chapter has been read, I will read this chapter in its entirety, because I think it is very important today. I quote: "In the northern Adriatic region, a regionally coordinated approach is needed to place new economic facilities and other interventions in a space that has a relevant impact on the ecosystem balance of the area. For environmental safety transport and social reasons, the National Assembly opposes the installation of liquefied natural gas terminals along Slovenian territorial waters and in the wider market bay, and expects the same respect for those criteria from other countries of the Adriatic basin. It therefore requires the Government to clearly defend such a position in the formulation of the 4th chapter strategy. In accordance with the existing international conventions and documents of the European Union, the Republic of Slovenia must clearly and unequivocally present and represent the interests of environmental protection and security in the northern Adriatic region and include this in the process of developing the strategy set out in 4. Chapters." So that's what we wrote last December in the resolution in 2009. In this regard, we have, of course, written down the clear position of the National Assembly and thus, of course, the clear position of the Republic of Slovenia. Today we note that this resolution on the Adriatic Strategy is, as has already been said, just a dead letter on paper. In view of this, the Minister told us in his presentation that, in view of the position of the Italian Minister, who literally gave us two of his own words, he responded with ignorance. We would expect that, in accordance with this resolution, which was adopted virtually unanimously in the National Assembly, the distinguished Minister would protest with the same degree as the Italian Minister has allowed us to tell us what is going on from their point of view. We note recently that the documents adopted in the National Assembly are not relevant to what the Government is doing. We have the same case with the decision of the National Assembly on what took place at 25.6.1991 Slovenian, even that decision was ignored by the arbitration agreement, so now the practical resolution on the Adriatic Strategy is ignored. I can say that I myself had a similar experience with the Italian Minister of Transport when we politely discussed the issue that was connected with the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union, he also drew a deal out of hand, which we could have signed for the good cooperation of Luke Koper and the northern Adriatic ports, which is Italian. On everything beautiful, despite the fact that this was not agreed in the protocol to discuss any agreement. At the time, I simply rejected the Italian Minister and said that I would not sign this because it is not in the interest of the Republic of Slovenia. If there is a business interest in ports, Luke Koper, in cooperation with any Italian port, is likely to agree on a business agreement, so there is no need to sign any agreements at the government level. But it was obviously a similar attempt. I am of the opinion that the response should be different, and I also think that it is inappropriate to tell the government that we are receiving. In fact, it will take three months to 30.9th, as Mr Minister said, to prepare some material, then this material will be examined by a lawyer's office for three months, which is, by the way, half a year before it goes to the European Commission, which will be again for three months and so on and so on. In the meantime, we'll try to solve something bilaterally, but too late. The terminals can be built by now. In nine months or one year. And last but not least, what message did the Italian government have with such indecisiveness, let's start, let's move on. The same was true in the case of Croatia when we were not determined enough and we landed where we landed. We simply don't know how to stand up for ourselves in the spirit of Europe, because I'm not talking about some abnormal act or immoral behaviour of the Slovenian state, as all other European countries do, so should we. I therefore expect that, in accordance with the European legal order and also in the European spirit, if you want us to respond as strongly as we can to Italy's unilateral move and avoid activities, unilateral activities, unilateral moves by Italy, as we have witnessed in the past from one of our other neighbours. In doing so, I also expect that Slovenian Commissioner Potočnik, of course in the European spirit, can be actively involved in this issue. Like Commissioner Tajani in the European spirit, he changed his predecessor, Jacques Barrot, in the case of vineyards. Apparently, he had some European interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Urh has the floor. He won't discuss it. Mr. Miran Györek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister, representatives of the Ministry! So I am pleased that there has finally been a debate on this subject in the National Assembly, because I am alone on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group at its 12th meeting, and on 14 December, this was a question put by the outgoing Minister Karl Erjavac, and it has been over for six, seven months now, and I am afraid that we may have missed a lot. Apparently, there was a drop over the edge of the Italian Minister's statement that the coalition had also collapsed and agreed to this debate. Because at the time, on my procedural proposal for a debate to be held, let me recall, the entire coalition was completely opposed to this proposal, so the problem remains. My proposal was like this at the time; obviously we are all aware of the gravity of the problem or the open question, and I think that, in accordance with the rules of procedure which the question or initiative deserves to be addressed in this National Assembly, this is probably an initiative or a question. Above all, it is freezing that there is a reasonable suspicion that the government is secretly negotiating behind closed doors and that the interest of capital has reached that limit of destructive madness that no one believes is even possible, that is a total environmental disaster if it comes to it. Not to mention any other likelihood that this will happen, as everything points out in this direction, that matters are agreed here in fact, if I say in the jargon "paint of the people" to calm the public and the excitement, and the matter will probably not be prevented and, nevertheless, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure when I mention it, I would suggest that colleagues and colleagues decide, regardless of the coalition or opposition affiliations, that this matter should be thoroughly processed in this house, and that we should also give further instructions to prevent such a disaster. So I said it all. The former Minister, in response to my questions, was then fully explaining matters and, say, concerning the procedures when I asked him and the stage of the negotiations and conclusions of the ILO, then replied, for example, that in relation to the offshore terminal, this is the terminal that was envisaged in the middle of the Gulf of Markets and even interferes with the Slovenian territorial area, that is to say, there is a safety belt cca. 1,400 metres provided by law, this belt extends also to our territorial area. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs immediately made a protest note. It assesses that this matter is totally unacceptable. With regard to the problems related to the cross-border assessment procedure and the final decision for the Zavljes, the European Commission was also informed in an extensive letter and proposed three lateral meetings. This is what the Slovenian and Italian Commission is saying, to avoid bringing an action before a competent court, I can say that, as Mr Erjavec said, at their initiative, the European Commission has also set up a meeting at technical level. This is said to be the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Italy and the Commission for 26 January 2010. Here Slovenia is very active. The Minister of Environment, Italy, has also made it very clear when she visited Slovenia that we do not support this project because we are convinced that it causes negative cross-border environmental impacts. I told her that we would use all legal means to prevent the installation and construction of this project. I have to say, you just have to have good arguments, good evidence. I think of our institutions, which I have mentioned, have given the right argument that we can also be successful if there is a lawsuit before a competent European court. So these were the statements made by both the Italian Minister and the statements made by our former Minister of Environment and Space. However, on the issue of technologies and with cross-border negative environmental impacts, the former Minister replied that the key argument is whether or not there are cross-border negative environmental impacts, regardless of technology, if this exists, can be the best technology, but if these impacts are harmful to nature, harmful to health, then there is nothing to agree to accept any such technology. This is what is crucial and based on our analysis, says the Ministry of Environment and Space and Institutions, the technology envisaged there has negative cross-border environmental impacts on our nature, on the state of our sea and also on human health. We can take that as a fact. So for us, the main goal is not to have these negative effects. However, given my knowledge of the fact that I have been taught by experts, they say that the location itself is so inappropriate that it is probably difficult, even with the most modern technology, to ensure that there are no negative cross-border impacts. This applies in particular to the "offshore" terminal, which even interferes with the security area of our territorial waters, which I mentioned earlier, which is totally unacceptable. So what will be the fate - I hardly predict. Those are the words of the former minister. This also depends on what Italy will do, but the European Commission is obviously aware that this is a serious environmental problem, because otherwise I would not convene this meeting at technical level, which is true in January 2010, as I mentioned. We want to solve this in a calm, balanced way. I think that Italy has other options, other locations, and I hope that some agreement will be found here. If not, we'll probably be forced to use legal remedies. However, it is true that this is decided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also true that we have engaged the best lawyers who are preparing all the necessary arguments, because it would be very irresponsible for the Slovenian Government to take a decision to bring an action, to bring an action before the European Court of Justice and then to lose such an action. This must not be afforded, and it must therefore be prepared very precisely and also very precisely - what are the impacts resulting from negative environmental cross-border impacts. In short, those words of the former minister who gave them before the "disposal," if I say so, when he didn't know that an execution platoon was already being prepared, they're like I told you. How and in general, if there is a communication between the former Minister and the current Minister of the Environment and the space of any communication, this would be very useful for the further work and procedures that the current Minister is required to carry out. Above all, I am interested in those findings, those analyses that were made in January. Are they now relevant in these discussions, and if these discussions remain at all, because I'm a little disappointed when I hear that some fresh information is actually neither you, Minister, do you have from the Prime Minister, except what you read in the media yourself. And you just figure out what's supposed to be going on at this highest level of agreement. That is why, of course, I expect some concrete binding conclusions today, both for your ministry and for the Slovenian Government in this direction, so that we do not all look around in a few months or half a year, even though it has happened, even though we have had time to act, we are stalling the matter needlessly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Janko Weber, Mr Györek would just like to explain, Mr Karl Erjavec has resigned from the National Assembly. Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, lovely greeting to everyone. In today's debate on the impact of liquefied natural gas in the Gulf of Markets and its coastal area, however, it would have to be reiterated that we also held this debate on the committee, on the working body and there was a debate, I hope, and we were particularly pleased with the positions and materials presented by the Government or the Minister on the committee itself. We have been able to learn very precisely how the process is proceeding and what really needs to be arranged so that all the authorities that can be involved in this process are also adequately involved. There have also been a lot of evidence at the expense of Commissioner Potočnik and the European Commission itself, but it is also necessary to make it very clear that we are building up so that this Commission can be involved in the process in accordance with the timetable adopted by the Government and this will also serve as a basis for Commissioner Potočnik to be actively involved in this process. And I hope to say that something similar has been done by Italy when it has also tried to make changes through the Commissioner for Transport in terms of the duration or change in the duration of the vineyards. Therefore, it was a short-term period of validity of individual vineyards, and for all of this Italy has also prepared appropriate grounds for the Commission to discuss this. And Slovenia is preparing this right now. And I think it is very important in this regard, of course, that material is being prepared that will address the whole of the Straza Bay and the coastal area, because the interest, the economic interest is exceptional in this area and, of course, tries to limit this economic interest, especially the environmental interest and, finally, the social interest. It is not least that many people live in this environment and live in extremely short distances from these important terminals, which are now placed in space and are operating in this Gulf of Markets and that anything that happens in addition certainly has consequences both on biodiversity and, of course, on the possible consequences that may occur especially in the event of disasters, can affect the population and their property. And this is exactly what Slovenia requires in this process, that all these major projects be treated at the same time and that no separate procedures such as this gas terminal in Žavaje and then a special gas pipeline procedure and then maybe another procedure for another investment. Maybe just a single investment to bring through all the intestines, if that's what you're saying. However, if you consider the project as a whole, of course it is impossible to avoid mainly cross-border impacts and comprehensive environmental impact assessments. So what I think is happening right now is that we can praise the Government and the Ministry, that it really is preparing quality materials and that the hands that it has in front of it are completely real, and that, of course, we all realize that one such building cannot be built as it was previously said, within three, six months, but that, of course, it also takes much longer hands, if we say so. However, I am sure that the material will be sufficiently thought out and, above all, we must also make an effort to decide whether we are going to press charges or not really very well supported by both legal professionals and, of course, all those experts who are going to work on a particular area, whether it is environmental or social, economic and transport. Indeed, we need to know that the Gulf of Markets is already receiving eighty million tonnes of petroleum derivatives somewhere today, and that traffic is already very concentrated in this Gulf. And if we add oil imports to this, of course, the risk of accidents is significantly greater than it is today. These are the arguments that the Interdepartmental Commission and experts in Slovenia are trying to draw up at such a level that they will maintain all the opinions that will be before us if we have to decide to go to the lawsuit. These preliminary procedures are certainly of great importance also because they can already agree between themselves, which investment in the Gulf of Markets is even possible and economically justified, that it does not cause too much problems for the population and not in preserving biodiversity in this environment. The conclusions that we have drawn up on the Committee really follow all of these requirements, which, last but not least, have been put before the Government, so that I think it is very wise that these recommendations, the conclusions adopted by the Committee, are supported in such a form and that everything will then take place in the future. But surely everything that is happening today is keeping Slovenia in very good condition and in the serious procedures and discussions necessary to take decisions that will be acceptable to the people on both sides of the country. For we need to know that even in Italy, many municipalities, or at least certainly the Valley of Trieste, are very clearly opposed to these terminals. So we have support, if we can say so, even in the population on the Italian side and also on the Slovenian side. This is what I think can sometimes overcome a narrow economic interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word is Marian Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well welcomed, Minister with fellow Members, fellow Members and fellow Members! An extraordinary meeting was convened today on the construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets. We're kind of arguing again about who gave the first opinion, but it doesn't matter who's first, because we're defending our country, our environment we want to live in. You could say, bravo, all congratulations to the Italian minister that he does not follow the neighbors' example of what they will say about Slovenia's opinion. "Slovaks are fools, the sea gives to Croats, and we Italians, anyway, will belong to the rest of the Gulf of Markets." It can be seen that there are no Slovenians on the Slovenian coast, there are some Croatians, some Italians, so Slovenians, unfortunately, we will no longer have the sea or Primorska. We, who care about Slovenia and what will happen to it in the future, have a different opinion. We are Slovenians who love this country, we are not sold souls, we are not citizens of our own interests, we know what a gas terminal means and what an ecological gas bomb means. We, the Styrians, have taken Koroška and we understand what's wrong. So please, let's make sure we don't lose the clean Gulf of Markets. Unfortunately, you do not have all these facts and principles, my dear three Members of the sea. I would like to stress in particular that the Ankarans wanted their congregation, but how, if they do not yet know about their part of the Gulf of Tržaška, about the clean environment, to defend their own, ours, Slovenian. I'm sorry to have to say this, but believe me, it's hard for me to be able to give the Italian Minister a statement, "we're going to fuck the Slovenian Parliament, the Slovenian government, we're going to do it anyway." Now I believe there's a trade. There is a lot of talk in Slovenia, but we would like to know which way this trade of our government is going. Please trade in this direction to get Gorica back, July Krajina, Koroško, but not actually trade in this direction so that the gas terminal will actually be installed in the Gulf of Markets. I personally participated in a project measuring emissions from Maribor to Barcelona. I personally know, after measuring the emissions, what a polluted part of Italy is in Milan. Would you like Members and Members to have such air here in Slovenia? The Minister himself is well aware of this work, and I believe that he does not care about the polluted state of Slovenia. I believe he won't mind setting up a gas terminal in the Gulf of Markets. I believe he will try to prevent this disaster, so that he can convince the government, Prime Minister Borut Pahor, that this will not be put here in the Gulf of Markets. We prefer to fight to prevent the construction of the third pier in Luka Koper. We're against it. Against the Gulf of Tržaška, gas terminals on the Italian side and in the Slovenian-Italian side almost nothing. I don't know. Then it is the logic of whether Luka Koper, Trieste Port, from Slovenia is exempt or why we do not want to try and fight for this part of Slovenia and for this pure part of Slovenia. I am very glad that, with the developmental progress of a great deal of copier work, but believe me, if this gas terminal is installed in the Gulf of Tržaška, then all the effort and all the money invested in the development of Kopra, the development of Ankara, the development of the entire couple of kilometres of coast, the coastal, in vain. Then we won't have tourists, Russian spenders with us, etc. why we fear people who have money to carry in Slovenian tourism to the Slovenian coast to the Slovenian economy. Do not fear money, fear greedy people, fear people who actually want to exploit the beauty of Slovenia. Therefore, let us not give the pure Slovenian part of the country, because we live in a beautiful Slovenia. This is what everyone wants, but unfortunately the citizens of Slovenia do not understand that Slovenia is really beautiful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now, if I may, after the performance of my esteemed colleague, along with Monti Payton, I would say something completely different. In short, of course, I support this extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I think it is useful, although we could first have an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Environment and Space and later also an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, but nothing about it. I think it is right that we are also at the plenary level discussing the state of the situation with regard to terminals, and that we should also check what has happened in recent years and how the National Assembly intends to react, and in particular the National Assembly must carry out its supervisory function over the Government and determine whether it respects or does not respect the conclusions adopted by the National Assembly. Extraordinary meeting of 29. 5. 2006 has also attached a framework for the functioning of the Government. This framework is still in force and the Government must act in this context. It is also important that the current meeting has led to some activities, particularly in the design and functioning of the Interdepartmental Commission, which has produced several reports. I think that the third is very important, in my opinion, I think that there was a third which has already provided substantive answers to some things. And this inter-ministerial commission, with all its reports, has presented an extremely strong professional and professional political base on which the Slovenian government can respond appropriately. If I understand correctly, this Interdepartmental Commission still exists and is working. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to the key issue. What's the key? The requirement for a cross-border environmental impact assessment is a key issue. This depends on whether or not the disagreement that the Slovenian state would give to the individual government for these projects depends on. It is true that we have heard and, of course, it is not new news that there is no news at all that Italy intends to build a terminal in Žavaje. The Italian governments have said this several times. The Italian government has already promised that the terminal will be built in Zavaje in 2010, but it is not yet there. And around this there is no dilemma that once so, once again, depending on the internal situation. The Italian government intends to enable the construction of this terminal. However, it is clear that if we do not get an appropriate document to assess the acceptability of these impacts, of course, Slovenia remains the only way that is possible and this is, of course, an action before the relevant European authorities and courts. For this we have a legal basis in the Commission's two repeatedly amended directives on certain assessments of cross-border environmental impacts and, of course, on the EspO Convention. As far as we've heard many times, there's some kind of trade. Here I would like to address the Minister with words, I hope I will not offend anyone, because they will not be Slovenian, in the words of Ronald Reagan, Minister: "Read my lip." And that is, we want just a little bit more and nothing less than a credible, reviewed, credible assessment of cross-border environmental impacts. No more and no less. If the Italians give it to us, we'll decide according to our judgment. If the Italians don't, we'll go to court. And this must be a constant and clear message to everyone in this country and in another country. We don't want war, we don't want anything, and we don't want to trade. To trade in terms of, we will look a little bit at the terminals, you will look a little bit at, say, the third pier, or at some other project you will look a little bit at. We're not gonna look away. Nor do the Italians expect our projects that have or could have an impact on the cross-border environmental impact and fall within the category of facilities for which such cross-border environmental impacts will be assessed. They are also expected to require a consistent and well-founded, credible study and environmental impact assessment. There can't be a store here. We have to turn down the trade. If there was such a suggestion anywhere, I have no evidence that it existed. And unlike all others who are interested in what President Pahor has spoken to Mr Berlusconi, I would say that, except at the level, there is no interest in this project, because I know what this Parliament requires of this government, it requires of this minister and, frankly, I don't even care whether he talked about it or what he was talking about. The framework for the operation of this government is laid down in this National Assembly. This National Assembly also carries out this supervisory function. And the position of the groups of Members, independent of some minor grievances here and there, is relatively the same and similar in this regard. Of course, I will just say that I am sorry that today this rational discourse has overshadowed the discursion of resentment, and of course you have made noise in the opposition now. I have to say no, and I feel the same way about the subject when I was in opposition as I am now in another position, and it is the same for my colleagues. Of course, it is important to get out of the conclusions, if I may say so, Commissioner Potočnik, because we are doing ourselves a bear service because if we had him in this game with these conclusions we would actually discredit him, he is the Commissioner of the Commission and not the Slovenian government, and of course the Italians could turn this against us in future proceedings against the Commission. In the end, all I can say is that I'm concerned, and this is not the self-esteem and reprehensibility of many debaters, and at least my predecessor who doesn't go up with such elevated patriotism from people who like to brag about patriotism would at least expect more confidence that Slovenians and Slovenes with their country can and we can achieve more than those who seem to be pervasive. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And their iniquity shall be night and day, and still in the darkness and at the dawn. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues, colleagues, Minister with colleagues. So we've been working on gas terminals and gas pipelines since 2006. In 2006, certain conclusions were adopted and the requirement for today's meeting is, in fact, that some of the 2006 conclusions that have been easily implemented and thus reported on are necessary. That's one thing. Secondly, see also this Government dealt with this issue on 18 February 2010 and adopted a decision to prepare all the necessary documentation for the action before the European Commission, Italy, because of these gas terminals in Žavaje. Well, of course, what the minister said on May 24th didn't happen. Look, I wonder when the Italian minister says that she told our minister that the environmental impact is mainly a problem for Italian citizens, and therefore her ministry had to make a very decisive decision. In these Zavajas there is also an ironworks, if any of you colleagues accidentally went to look at it, I went to myself and with the young from the Slovenian People's Party we were on the face of the city, looked at it and actually realized that in Jesenice we could say or so I will say that people from Žavaje can go on vacation to Jesenice because there will breathe pure fresh air, in Žavaje, which would somehow represent themselves at sea and thus worse conditions to live. [[...]] Even now, because of the ironworks, of course, everything else will simply be gone. You know what it takes? Wonder who lives there. Is that what the first elite lives like we do when we have legislation that doesn't apply to the first kind and is lobbying and corruption and I don't know what's allowed. And, of course, for us citizens, who have to respect all the legislation in force - who in these Goats, cca. Four hundred thousand people live there. Who's there? Did anyone see anyone go to see this in these neighborhoods? Colleagues and colleagues. Retired, cca. Four hundred thousand. Where is it? It's somewhere in northern Italy. They don't really care what it used to be? Wasn't that some A-zone? So if we take all these historical moments, Slovenia should announce to Italy the cessation of diplomatic relations, if anything. That's the least of it. That's the least of it. How can they, of course, say that Slovenia is not in an influential area and it is no longer important because environmental reports are sufficient for them, so on and so on, and that this Slovenia has no influence on this. You know, from our Commissioner, that is, from the European Commissioner, Mr Potočnik - no one expects him to define a particular matter. But there are some standards, but some criteria, if we already have a Commissioner there, we can also set them. What kind of neighborhood, what kind of population, what kind of density, and what kind of environmental burden. Everything else that's already a law about some motors, cars and so forth that you've missed less CO2 and you've triumphed with it like you didn't know, you pulled God out of the sky. Here in this case, if this happens and the consequences that can be, will be catastrophic, not only for those 400,000 people who live in these Turtles, but, of course, for the entire Cyprus and wider Slovenian environment. You just shouldn't be allowed to do that and, of course, start it a long time ago, at the traffic light there at the government, some traffic lights you say you have, so the red light and that kind of thing, you know, you would flash. Around these quiet diplomats of yours, we know where they're taking us and where they're taking us. On the dark side of Slovenian history, since you have been leading unfortunately for the last two years this country. But God help you, that's right. There is, of course, another question - why does this Government simply kneel, land and so forth before all such or other claims from external or one or other neighbours? Why? What happened? What kind of X-cents someone gets on a cubic of stored gas if we hear today that a company that is a minister is one of the ministers who owns it gets 7 cents after one student lunch. And the question is, how many discounts and I don't know what some probably got for the piers, the moorings of their yachts and so on. What happened here? What is going on back here would be right for those who spoke in quiet diplomacy to say this here in this National Assembly. The meeting could also be closed if it is such important information that they should not go public, but I think the Slovenian public should know about it. What seems so unacceptable to you if it is required of the Government that we will probably not be able to take that first decision because the National Assembly has become aware of the information, so the National Assembly has not become aware of it, this is likely to be an amendment to the information of the Republic of Italy on these unilateral decisions on these gas terminals. In the second decision, however, when the National Assembly calls on the Government to draw up a report within 30 days on the implementation of what was adopted at the 18th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, that is, in the previous government and that in the 30 days it will prepare measures to protect Slovenian interests and that, as one of the European countries, we demand protection from Commissioner Potočnik not only for our Slovenian citizens and citizens, but for the entire region and for the entire period of this work. Of course, what impact this will have on our tourism and fisheries and so on, it will not be necessary to determine in particular whether tourism and fishing will be no more, or whether in this milk that we have left behind, it is likely that it will be one way or another, or whether we will go fishing for some frog legs inside or not, and those few children will swim there or not. In short, the development and the strategy for the further development of our country, unfortunately, you are pinning it on the wrong points and the wrong ones, not just the wrong, catastrophic decisions that will cause far-reaching harm to citizens and citizens even then, or at the same time, especially when we are 200 years under the rubble. It is therefore necessary to adopt these proposed conclusions and to do everything to protect further pollution in the first place, not because of environmental problems, because of environmental policy, because of greens, because of what is being heard today, because this is what everyone has in the programmes because they all talk about it, but if the finance minister or the environmental minister is talking about it, they are both spending the same flossules, but it is important because of the people who are already living in the far-reaching environment there and the consequences that such decisions could have. I will support these conclusions and I hope that something will move here, but I fear that the real picture is completely different, that you also sold this part of Slovenia. The price will be paid by citizens and the benefit of two or three individuals, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u69	Thank you very much. For the sake of the people who may be accompanying this meeting, I must say that those who hold this meeting have the right to stop only if they are questions that are gravely out of the agenda or grave insults, or everyone is responsible for the words he has spoken. I must say, there have been some debates today that make me feel right to say it. Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u70	Mr President, such debates usually occur when a person does not have much to say and then seeks rhetoric elsewhere. At the university where I studied international relations and diplomacy, a professor of diplomatic style, as one of the major postulates, said that breaking up diplomatic relations was never a smart move and that it would be more meaningful when all issues between the two countries were fully resolved and there was nothing left to resolve, so diplomatic relations are no longer necessary. More problems are needed in diplomatic relations. Or, my friend, when it comes to proposing that diplomatic relations between the two countries within the European Union should be terminated. It's a paradox in itself. And he says, at least a break from diplomatic relations. Yeah, well, what's the biggest part? Shall we send the patriots to the border? [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] We can send the patriots to the border on condition that you are in the first line, too, my colleague. Today we have heard criticism from the European Commissioner because he does not follow the bad example of his Italian colleague. I agree that some European Commissioners, and here colleagues are right, some European Commissioners are mixing what is of European interest and national interest. And they even allow it in a pretty transparent way. The question is how far in the end they have achieved and how much in the end they have harmed themselves and the reputation of the country that proposed the Commissioner. The European Commissioner, when he becomes Commissioner, must read a footnote similar to that read by ministers here in the National Assembly. Among other things they must swear that, I will translate, "in performance of my tasks neiter to seek or to take instructions from any government or from any other institution, body, office or entity". So, he swears that he will not follow or seek instructions from any government or other institutions, bodies, offices or entity in carrying out his work. Are we now asking our own Commissioner to violate the prescribing which is part of the acts in the European Community? I don't know if that's the wisest thing to do if Slovenia wants to continue to be a credible partner and to overcome this credibility when it needs to be within the European Union. After all, this credibility has also endured well in very difficult negotiations leading to an arbitration agreement. If this credibility were not to be the question of whether that agreement would succeed as well as it is. It was said from a colleague of Petan when he quoted me as saying about the terminals in Luka Koper that after the meeting in Trieste there was total silence. I didn't replicate, of course, because I knew I had a word later. Here I would like to say that you were not silenced and that it is wrong to stress this. I myself have sent the initiative to the Government, probably the Minister has already been informed of it, where I have also assessed it, and the Minister also knows that perhaps I could be a little more determined with my colleague Prestigiacom if not the other in requiring a little more accurate participation in the meeting. But at least the minister made his views clear and listened to the interlocutor. In the former government, the foreign minister instead of doing this, at least doing it, drinks a penny with the governor of the country of Furlania-Julia, then Governor Riccardo Illy, when he agreed on how the terminals would be set up. So if I accept the criticism, Comrade Krivec, I accept the criticism that this government could be more decisive in certain matters, or at least more determined, we must also acknowledge that the problems may have been significantly more serious in the functioning of your ministers in the previous government. I am pleased that we are on the same front today as we were able to oppose Italian terminals. I also mentioned my colleague on purpose so that if he wants to replicate. As at that time, we also see today different lobbying within the country, some who see business interests, both in Luka Koper and in Italy, and advocate terminals or advocate a softer approach and those who oppose it. And it has to be admitted, such lobbies were on one side and on the other. On one and the other, present in the previous government, as the Minister of Economy may have allowed the possibility of setting up terminals in Luka Koper, the Environment Minister of the same previous government has made this impossible. I'll admit it. The National Assembly adopted a resolution on the Adriatic Strategy nine months ago, in which it clearly stated what it expected from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, both in the setting up of gas terminals initiatives in Luka Koper and in initiatives to build similar facilities elsewhere in the Gulf of Trža. So we have already made it clear, and we are probably here in agreement that we are demanding that the government do what the resolution says. As far as I know, the government does not object and agrees. However, the resolution also states that there is a need for a coordinated approach in the Northern Adriatic area, and I think that this is an essential concept, a coordinated approach to resolving not only gas terminals, but energy issues in this area. Coordinated approach. And in the initiative I sent after the marketing meeting with the government and the Minister for the Environment, I also made it possible for the government to try and try it only through negotiations, through diplomatic contacts, otherwise not. In South Africa, I doubt that they will agree on anything, in particular because Slovenia and Italy probably will not meet at the football meeting, because Italy will fall out first, but Slovenia will move on, of course. But in these diplomatic relations, it is necessary to reverse the story and this energy competition, the energy and economic competition that is now taking place between Slovenia and Italy, not only in the strict field of energy or gas terminals, but also, for example, planning with space and ports, it is necessary to turn to the energy and strategic alliance of two players of the same interest, to increase the efficiency of using the common space so that we can all have some of it together. And I think the Italians are aware of that too, and if we know how to approach it properly, we can make it here. Because that's how no one loses anything, just wins. The issue of the gas terminal is not the only one. While not forgetting that Slovenia is also involved in the construction of one of the gas terminals in the northern Adriatic, over GEO the gas has 20% of the consortium that builds the terminal on Omisalj on Krk, so we can also promise a fifth of our terminal in the short term. This terminal is already in the pre-construction phase, among other things, but also a number of other issues, as we said at the ports. And here I would agree with the predecessor, the president of the National Assembly, who said not to avoid being judged is in our interest. It is in our interest to assess the impact on the environment of the State Spatial Plan for Luka Koper as "piano alloyers" for Luka Trist in our interest, especially those living in Koper or on the coast. It is in our interest to assess the environmental impact of gas terminals, but not only that, more broadly. Do you know why we have one of the highest cases of cancer in Cyprus? Because of the market ironworks, which daily sends micro particles to Slovenian territory and a number of other questions that are open. Use of geothermal energy, sea, pipelines, the southern flow to come, including Western and possibly to Italy and Nabuca two pipelines. The question of the development of tourism, which is also connected, because Luka Trieste or Trieste cannot build gas terminals in Slovenia and hope to develop tourism on our coast or vice versa. A common approach is needed. Finally, what is also said in the initiative, including the wider space, including issues of nuclear energy. We know that Italy has already expressed its interest in participating in the construction of the second block of the Krška nuclear power plant. And we know that Italy has already expressed the interest and opportunity to build its nuclear power plant in Tržič near Trieste, in other words, Monfalcone, a few kilometres away from Kopra. So now is not the time for any predictions of war, interruption of diplomatic relations, or exacerbation. Now is the time for intensive diplomatic action, which must also be followed in parallel by the preparation of a possible action. But if we don't work double-time, we won't be successful. And we'll only be successful if we all win together in the North Adriatic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor as the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u72	Thank you. I had to take a call, mainly because of a few strange remarks by my colleague Yuri. With this latter, I agree, the assessment is valid for everyone, the environmental impact assessment has no limits, and we can agree on that. However, we do not require the Minister for European Affairs, who is now from our country, to be involved in the matter in the way we impose it or in the way that he prefers our country. We just want it to be included in the way that the European Directive requires, but it does not do so at the moment, because otherwise it would probably have already been included if we had gotten information that at some point it was misleading from the Italian side with information that it was in some way carrying out placement without the consent of our party and so on. If you read the directive and the convention talking about these cross-border impacts, you are clearly talking about how someone has to react in such a case. This isn't happening with us. We therefore do not pressure the European Minister to act for Slovenia on certain matters, but must act on the basis of the documents adopted in the European Parliament. Not because of the documents we have adopted, it is because of our resolution, but because of the directive and the convention, the SCI on cross-border impacts. And with that, I believe we agree. And it is an initiative to take a closer look at how these issues will be addressed and to take a more active approach in the coming months to solving this problem. For in some statements in March, when he was visiting and meeting with Dr. Rok Žarnić, he announced this, but nothing happened in the middle. As has been said, he has had more time for an arbitration agreement than for problems with the installation of gas terminals, which are subject to directives not adopted by our National Assembly, but by the European Union. So we won't be able to get along so quickly here. I said earlier that it is not a problem as to how this is happening at this time, but why in the past, when it received relevant information from the Italian side, the Government did not refer to Parliament or notify the Parliament and the competent institutions in that country of certain conclusions, in an official manner. Most people do not know that in September 2009, the talks between our President and Italy expressed their willingness to compromise on both sides. I think this is in conflict with what we then adopted in December in the resolution. And it would be good if the President of the Government, when talking about compromise solutions in the Gulf of Markets regarding the placement of larger facilities, would be aware of that. And we would probably think hard in the resolution whether we write so explicitly that the gas terminals in this area are not, because we made a problem for our Government or the coalition government, but it was known in September that someone on a higher level was talking about it. And Parliament's 2006 decision was that the National Assembly should be informed of all activities concerning the cross-border placement of larger buildings, both on our part, of the extension of the port of Koper as well as of the extension of the port of Trieste as the placement of larger projects. And because we were not aware, we may have adopted a resolution that is at this moment also making a major problem in the negotiations that the government is leading forward with the neighbouring country. And that's not fair, or it doesn't make sense. And I will also point out once again that, in that response by Minister Žarnic, when he was put before the fact that Italy is no longer talking to us, the Italian Minister was clearly hinted that he had not been able to speak to the former Minister, Mr Erjavc, or to draw closer to him. Obviously because it was clear in the positions adopted by the National Assembly and also recorded in certain documents. However, that things are going well with the current minister and that there are likely to be some solutions. At that time, our minister stated that he did not expect any problems either in the placement and extension of Luke Koper or in the process of the State's site plan. What it says is the opposite as you all argue that the cross-border influences are valid for all to respect this in each project, as the President of the National Assembly has said. But when we get this together and get this over with, it's kind of not working out, and we're kind of worried about that. And when we link up what I said earlier, that maybe the waste in the Gulf of Tržaška is the reason why Minister Erjavac is no longer in this position, however, there is even an additional argument that our colleagues can also ask questions. Because the signal that was issued by the Italian side about the possibility of talking to the current team at the Ministry is of concern to us. I do not know whether all colleagues know that certain activities were still in force in the past year. I wasn't aware of it until I started dealing with this problem in detail. But I think that such data is so relevant to the whole country that it would be right that the authorities of the National Assembly, the National Assembly, certain committees dealing with it are also familiar with it, but that was not the case. Then we started talking on the basis of a strange statement or not responding in the event of a press conference. Before that, no one has simply supported us by the fact that the Italian state has already made a simple decision in all cases and that we are blowing in the wind in some way before we adopted the resolution, and that before we adopted the resolution, the Government has not informed us. To negotiate a compromise solution. Maybe my friend Yuri knew that. I didn't. And that is why I say that in this case, the government is not doing the right thing because it is not covered in some way by the negotiating base. For the documents which the Assembly of State accepts are in conflict with what they say in these negotiating venues and in the report of the Interdepartmental Commission. And that's not right. As far as drinking champagne is concerned, I don't think a minister with a land chief is a problem. And I'm like that with Illy. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] But I probably haven't sold anything yet, if you're implying it and it's necessary to know that the government in Rome is deciding not the government in Trieste on such big projects. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Puksic, do you have a procedural proposal? You weren't named, I didn't notice. [[...]] [[Talking to each other.]] From Yuri? [[...]] Okay, but next time, please give the speaker a raise of his hand in such a case. Here you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u74	Thank you very much. He's in peace because I've also communicated and my colleague Yuri admits this by not making a procedural mistake because you gave me your word. So, my colleague Yuri said that breaking up diplomatic relations was an extreme move, or at his university, you were taught that this was not good. But, however, colleague Yuri, a country that says that she has good neighbourly relations when ministers and presidents of the government and so on, hug and shake and everything is oh and all, despite the problems, although we have written in the Foreign Affairs Act that good-neighbourly relations are also linked to relations between the State and our minority in the country. Of course, even though this is not happening, but I will not, our politicians also say that good neighbourly relations, excellent relations and so on. And if we look at the correspondence. Since March 5th, when the marketing fishermen have pointed out the issue, from the fact that the cold sea and so on will be what is going to happen, until the Commissioner spoke with the Italian Minister of the Environment on 3 September and allowed for the alleged willingness of Slovenia to participate in the assessment of this environmental report, and then all the way back to August 21st, when Alpe Adria Green was discovered that they had faked the environmental report, that documents were fakes and so on, and our Government, that is to say, your coalition government responded to it, and requested or responded to a complaint before the European Court of Justice, should nevertheless take a step forward. Now you're backing out, or you are. But the government is retreating back. And I don't know [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] What else has to be done to start us in this Europe or to start taking the government into account. [[...]] That's not the way it is, and we just can't let that happen. It's over the edge. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, you wanted to replicate Daniel's guilt? Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u76	Thank you very much. In short, because we agree on some matters, for example, when we expect all the conclusions of the Interdepartmental Commission to respect what is written in the National Assembly. Literally. And any other conclusion is beyond what I think is acceptable. However, if we return to the Commissioner's question. Your answer was clear that you are not expecting any impartial role, but a more active role within the European spirit. But that's a guide. So, we are now giving instructions that we are expecting something, while we are aware that the Commissioner should not respect these instructions. So we're coming up with some paradoxical contradiction of arguments. I propose that we focus more on Slovenia's position, and that we stress in particular that we leave the European Commissioners in the hope and belief that they are doing their job as best as possible. After all, or we will confirm the European Commissioner again with the next Commission, and again it is our business and our decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Today, when we talk about this important point, topic and point, about this project, which has been projected to the Slovenian sea border and which will mark and damage if it is realized, Slovenia, then we are discussing the way in which infringing government Members flee from the possibility of at least being informed. When faced with yesterday's infirmity, the indignation of the Minister, when he felt sorry for me, was completely uninformed, and today, the continuation of the fact that there is no concern. That there's no interest in what we're ahead of and what stage we're in and what they're preparing for us. And one must urgently ask the Quo exercises Slovenia under this government and this authority. Where are we going? What kind of pilots do we have? And these nonsensees and nonsensees spoken by government Members in the apparent defense and escape from the truth are so outrageous that I didn't think such things could be said. First of all, I must tell Mr President, Mr Gantar, who is not here, that I am protesting that he is saying that there is an insult syndrome on this side of us. Doesn't he see that we're worried or that we're seeing Slovenia choke, that the neighbors are smothering it, and that they're tying it up? Mr Gantar said the supervisory function of Parliament is necessary, I agree, over the Government. But today, of course, he speaks entirely different things and acts as the President of Parliament in diametric contrast to what he wrote in the conclusions he himself proposed four years ago when he wrote: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take note of all the activities of the Government to date, including the comprehensive report on all formal and informal meetings on the subject of both gas terminals." I'm afraid for the President's future walk, for he's walking up and down, because if that authority's already hidden his spine like that, he doesn't know what he wrote, and he's doing a salad of mortals today, and he's opposed to getting information here. I often break my spine in a mortal salad, and I worry about him if he's going to do this kind of salad mortal. And look, this is what happens when we face the worst ecological disaster in the world in the Gulf of Mexico. I would expect the Italian side to be less arrogant in such an international situation, but the humiliation that the Italian Minister carried out at the expense of our Minister in Trieste, when she said to him, "We have made up our minds," is something that we rarely encounter in diplomatic and interstate relations, especially if the representatives of that country refer to them as good-neighbourly purposes. And instead of actually coming to Parliament where there should be complete information, the President of the Government or I can't imagine that a minister can have such a humiliation in the government, or that there are such relations in the government, that they don't inform themselves that the Secretary-General doesn't know anything about what the President of the Government is talking about with another country after a few days. And to take this decision that we must get this information, no, this is rejected by the President of Parliament. Today we should probably close the meeting in some part, obtain information from the Owls about what Italy and Croatia are agreeing under the table. What were they negotiating at the time of the Slovenian defeat at the arbitration agreement? And this information to the Owl, which, according to my information, is arrogant in this regard, the intelligence agencies, in order to get to know at a closed meeting what are the scenarios that are being negotiated on our account, on our backs and on our Slovenian account. The government has apparently knelt down on this matter as well. The Prime Minister of the Vatican had the President of the Vatican government here on Saturday. We know that these ties and this diplomacy can be done most in Europe and around the world. But he preferred to leave the next day on Sunday, to Libya and there was virtually a diplomatic scandal if you had such a guest to leave and, of course, Vatican diplomacy would very likely act against Slovenia's interests because he humiliated the President of the Vatican State Secretary. And there would be much more to gain than these arrangements and talks in the desert, about which no one wants to give a word, information to their own Parliament. I'm asking the Prime Minister what he was talking about. Don't let him hide from the MPs of the National Assembly. Let him inform his ministers of what he's talking about. Otherwise, we will face the disastrous consequences that await us in the event of an arbitration agreement. See, after all the stuffing of his head in the sand Slovenian Government is clear that in a quiet way he has agreed to all the serious consequences. And that this project of gas terminals at 1700 km of Italian coast was projected to the border with Slovenia in the vicinity of the Gulf of Markets. If there were one in Trieste, and in the province the same ethnic situation as in World War I, the same percentage of Slovenians in Trieste would have been overrun if they had not been Romanized with immigrants from the south, and then Italy would not have put the capacity of economics there because it was afraid to gain the power of the Slovenian minority. Now that our minority has become weak by fascism and systematic politics, unfortunately, it has decreased, of course, now that new workers of Sicily will need to change the national picture of Trieste and the hinterland. The Slovenian government participates in this outside of the German, but on the inside with agreement. Obviously. You do not have a country in Europe where such a large-scale government would reject information on the key issue for the country, with what is happening below deck. You don't have a country like that. Mr. Minister, I'm begging you, I told you that I felt sorry for you last night because you showed me that you unfortunately had to show inadequacy and ignorance. But because of your integrity, if you do not receive in the course of this session information that you can say here at an open or closed session in this regard, then, because of the defence of your integrity, step aside, offer a derogation because this will maintain your upright attitude. Don't let yourself be humiliated! It's humiliation, I'm sorry. You were humiliated by the Italian Minister and humiliated by the President of the Government. It is now clear to me why, for the last time, at the reception of 300 people, the Italian ambassador was non-diplomaticly aspiring for an arbitration agreement - because he is in agreement with Italy and Croatia and because he is good for Italy and Croatia and bad for Slovenia. That's more than clear. And what will happen to this terminal, where I fear that everything is agreed, that the Slovenian Government does not have the power, because they twisted her hands on other points to resist it. Not only environmental things, but unforeseeable environmental disasters happen in such cases; the Gulf of Mexico is an example, but I do not know how far away from the coast. But also the well-known Gulf of Markets will be changed because this disgusting building of the terminal will stand there, which is different from port cranes and that. It will drive tourists from the Slovenian sea, it will destroy fisheries. With the arbitration agreement, the death sentence of the port of Koper was signed, so that, as I have already said, after its entry into force in a few years, there will be only "Luka Juri" in Cyprus, not Luke Koper. Dear representatives of the Government, Members and Members of the Coalition Groups, look at your conclusions four years ago! Look at what you've written down, and stop fooling around. If capitulation is already signed, then let me know. Then let the whole government back down! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u79	Thank you. [[Ad in the background.]] Well, Mr. Luka Yuri, there was no quoting or understanding your opinion, it was somehow but, okay, go ahead. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u80	Thank you, Chairman. I just want to say that a colleague can continue to fight for Luke Koper to continue to exist. And not only Luka Juri, but colleagues and colleagues from Social Democrats have fought hard over the past two years to get this port out of an investment spasm that has fallen due to such and different decisions, partly driven by the crisis, but also partly by non-strategic planning. In fact, if the method of management that was taking place in the style of the previous administration continued, there would be really only one arch left. And there's another post-scriptum. I propose that colleagues from the parliamentary group explain to colleague Jerovšk what is the difference between the anti-intelligence agency and the advertising agency. One and the other aren't the same. The advertising agency sells ads and the anti-intelligence service does something completely different. I see he's already consulting, probably being reasoned with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr. Zanoskar has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Crossman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Not only gas terminals, much more so far from the Italian side made without of course any of our consent, but if we took the time and looked at northern Italy, at least the part that borders somehow on our country, on the Bay of Markets, you will find that all the developed industry, especially the chemical and other industries, as colleague Luke said earlier, the ironworks, all concentrated along the Pad River and we in Slovenia, Koper, Izola and Piran, have the same very serious problems with this, because measuring devices show an excessive number of particles in the air as should be allowed to breathe clean air. During all this time, but not so far back, not 50 years ago, not that country, but still that country, no one has ever reacted, no one is ever interested in what's actually going on in the neighborhood. And today there is one major issue, these are gas terminals, and of course I agree that it is necessary to react, to respond harshly, but also professionally. That is why I have no problem, because the team led by Minister Žarnic is, in my opinion, a good team, capable, the Secretary of State is an experienced man, the right hand of the Minister, so I have no fear that these people will not be able to act properly. The second is what our neighbouring side wants and what kind of debate it wants to bring to the National Assembly to take advantage of a few advertising moments, of course. If I read to you on this occasion, allow me to read directly so that there will be no later mistakes, mistakes or replicas. Mr Marjan Bezjak said the following: we could say bravo, all congratulations to the Italian minister, that he does not follow the neighbors' example of what Slovenia has to say about what Slovenia has to say. Slovenians are morons, the sea gives to Croats, and the Italians will still have the rest of the Gulf of Markets. It can be seen that there are no Slovenians on the Slovenian coast, some Croatians, some Italians. Therefore, the Slovenians will unfortunately no longer have the sea or the Primorska. We who don't care about Slovenia and what happens to it in the future, but we are different opinions, we are Slovenians who love this country and we are not sold souls, we are not citizens of our own interests, we know what a gas terminal means and what an ecological gas bomb means. The Styrians have taken Koroška from us and we understand what's wrong. This contribution of yours will make an extremely significant contribution to ensuring that gas terminals go in line with the law, and that we will in fact deal with the Italians very briefly. If you needed an extraordinary session to do so, then you have indeed achieved your goal. I hope that people in the Slovenian Primorje heard how well you have characterized them and I hope that someone remembers you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u83	Thank you. Allow me, colleagues and colleagues to welcome the honorary consuls present in Slovenia to attend the first meeting of the Honorary Consulates in the Republic of Slovenia. Good-bye! [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] Now I give my word to Mr. Frank Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u84	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. I must say, unfortunately, I am disappointed in this debate. Initially, it seemed that we would be united and that we would finally arrive at at at least similar positions in a state-of-the-art and parliamentary and democratic way. After all, we have been discussing gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets for years, and these discussions have allowed us to face very well-founded arguments. At the time of the establishment, the government appointed the World Inter-Resort Group to monitor terminal problems in the Gulf of Markets, in fact, there have been extremely high-quality results. On the basis of these results, the Parliament and the Government acted synergisticly and prevented the procedures for setting up a terminal in the Gulf of Markets from continuing smoothly. Diplomacy worked, parliamentary diplomacy worked, civil society acted, and in this context we actually achieved, it was, of course, easier with the previous Italian government, because it was a government that had listened to some of the comments of the civil society of the affected municipalities and of the neighbouring countries of Slovenia by actually freezing the procedures and meeting the requirements of the cross-border impact assessment. Unfortunately, the political environment has changed at that time, and we have come to the conclusion that with some political option, which is currently the whole of Italy, dialogue is a little more difficult to establish. There is a need to negotiate more skillfully somewhere, but certainly there is still room for negotiation. Because Italy and Slovenia are members of the European Union, because there are conventions such as the SPO Convention, there are European directives within which there are also possibilities for projects, planning which are controversial in terms of cross-border influences to be opposed under international law. We must not forget a number of debates in which the right option, which today requires a strong attitude, has tried to eliminate the importance of international law. Long ago, when we discussed the arbitration agreement, it seemed that international law was not useful. No, because it is not useful, it is a key means to achieve where bilateral dialogue ends in order to achieve a just solution. Also with regard to terminals. By the way, we have heard so many bizarre things today from the mouth of some members of the opposition, such as Mr Puksic, who has unfortunately left us, who is teaching us about geography and demographics of neighbouring countries. So bizarrely, for example, he claimed to literally live in Zavaja, four hundred thousand, four hundred thousand people! You know, Trieste has two hundred and five thousand inhabitants, and Zavlje is just a faction in the Municipality of Milje. The mile has a total of thirteen thousand two hundred inhabitants of Zavaja, these are residents, people living in that area that we natives call Mlinja or Montedo. [[?]] , lives up to three thousand people. But these three thousand people, of course, are still interested in stopping that project because it is at stake in the quality of their lives. And it is not only a matter of cross-border influences. It is also a question of catastrophic effects on those municipalities that have been directly affected and which have repeatedly opposed the gas terminal in Žavaje; these are the municipalities of Milje and the municipality of Dolina. But unfortunately, both Italian legislation and our legislation to local communities only has little impact on these decisions. All we do is decide the land of Furlani. So there is also a pink punk decision that will encourage the possible construction of this terminal. Another consistent and relevant factor is the neighbouring country, which, with the application of international law, conventions and European directives, can prevent, in so far as expert judgement proves that impacts are harmful. And in such a case, there is a possibility that we can stop such planning. Mr Krivic, at the outset, I must say that he made a very correct introductory presentation to the point where, unfortunately, the proposer of this meeting fell again, and there I also detected some kind of indignation or effect, probably due to the lost referendum, due to the defeat, due to the Constitutional Court yesterday, in short, a number of factors which have polluted those initial purposes, which could be the common starting point of all parties, and also the government, to continue in all efforts to stop the construction of gas terminals in the Gulf of Market. Unfortunately, after that introductory debate, which was, for example, mostly correct, and would also have signed it yourself, you went to a debate where we heard everything, and in fact what hit the most out was this resentment, almost acceptableness, almost a desire for the Slovenian Government not to succeed in these efforts. And so you dragged Prime Minister Pahor and his talks with Berlusconi in Libya. We know exactly that the prime ministers are talking, and I am also interested in the content of their conversation, and I am interested. That conversation is politically relevant, but legally not. Legally, we have all the elements here, we have the Government, we have the Minister, we have the National Assembly, and also Mr Pahor will have to take into account what we decide and what the Government decides, which is the government's mark. He can talk, but it's not the first time, and it probably won't be the last time, but I wouldn't stop at this problem now, on this issue and reduce everything to what you told Berluscona and Pahor. We know how these discussions are going on, but unfortunately there was much more damage when Illy and Rupel spoke informally in 2006 when it all began. And by that time, a member of your party had actually predicted a scenario that is now about to come back. Gobbles--I, off the top in the middle of the bay--no. But now we have a supplement for both ports. They're in the game. We have previously presented the position of the Zares Group, and I will now repeat it, and it has also been repeated by my colleague Gantar. We welcome all assessments of cross-border impacts. And it is not a national desire, it is not a self-protection of the national interest, the national interest of Slovenia, it is the protection of the health and normal life of people living at the border. I would like to warn you that this petition has been signed on one side and the other side of the border. The fight to improve the development of the Straža cove is not only a Slovenian struggle, but also a struggle of environmentalists on the other hand. Alpe Adria Green mainly operates on the basis of ecological fighters from Trieste. The technical omism of the Fire Union of the Land of Furlania-Julia landscape, which was here in Ljubljana, and has also provided our Government with a number of relevant and important assessments and analyses, works on those sides. So let us be aware that this fight is not between Slovenia and Italy, between Slovenia and Croatia. But this is a confrontation with strong interests that operate at a higher level, which are also connected in government circles, in high political circles, and not necessarily the interests of the people, the people living along that coast and at that bay. Another piece of information. You manipulate, unfortunately, with an important question of gas terminals, and you know exactly that the party Zares, the Group of Ambassadors, really, that the signatories remain consistent in the position that these projects need to be obstructed and stopped at least until it is clear whether they exist cross-border. And here we demand a neutral, professional, scientific assessment and we want this assessment to be carried out through the European Commission. And Italy is obliged to freeze all procedures until all rights and duties arising from international conventions are also realized. But again you wanted to prove something: that Slovenia will no longer be a maritime state, that it loses its specific weight in this part of the Adriatic. Unfortunately, these findings come from the same continental regions that voted as they voted in the referendum and did not understand anything about the actual situation in Primorska, on the coast of the Gulf of Markets. You know those places, those problems, those mentalities, you don't know, and that's why you hope to say things that don't hold back. Look, give me a little bit -- you know what correlation means? - let's do a little collapsing, connect the two data points. Those who signed massively first against the gas terminals and who are on the first battle line against the gas terminals, not only in Zavaja, not only in the middle of the bay, but also in Koper. Look, read this article today: "Green Light. The Court annulled the red light for the gas terminal in Cyprus." Of course it's a long way to go. And I hope and place my trust in Minister Žarnić's heart to prevent him from continuing his attempt to get a gas terminal in Cyprus in the middle of the city. But by the SDS we have heard the most favored of this option in other debates. Mr. Petan, who was very heroic here today, was among those who repeatedly challenged and opposed our criticisms the possibility of building a gas terminal, not in Zavaje, in the middle of Kopra, a thousand meters from the city beach and the city core! This was acceptable to some. For us who live there, it's not. And look, the people on the Coast, who are massively against the gas terminals and defend their sea and their coast, have voted massively for an arbitration agreement because they do not understand things as you do, but they understand them wisely, because they realize that we are not at war with the people abroad or outside Dragonje, but that we have to cooperate with this population for the common development and common quality of life. This makes sense for all proposals and initiatives towards the creation of a common strategy, an environmental strategy for the Gulf of Markets. As a result, infrastructure and energy strategies, why not, no one is against gas, but let us locate it somewhere where it will not pose any risks or problems for navigation or for the population. Our ships, repeatedly said and repeated, are now sailing through Italian territorial waters. The exit route from the port is in Italian waters, there were never any problems and probably no problems. As they sail along the east coast, we will still see, but probably through Croatian waters, because even if there is contact, you know that ships choose the shortest route. And the shortest route goes one way or another always in at least one part of the territorial waters of the neighbouring country. But it doesn't matter at all. This has nothing to do with terminals, not sailing. While a terminal created in the middle of the bay would, of course, reach into our territorial waters with its security zone. And there we have all the adutes and all the ways to stop it. However, in the case of Zavaje we need to prove that there will be cross-border impacts. Manipulating with mud, the possible presence of heavy metals in the Gulf of Tržaška is a problem concerning us, which concerns the Marketers, who concern the inhabitants of the town of Gradez, which concerns the inhabitants of Savudrija and so on, all fishermen. We, not you, we eat those fish first. Believe us, we are still interested in not eating mercury and other heavy metals. Therefore, once again, let us together allow the assessment of all interventions both in our country and on the Italian side. Let us agree with our neighbours in fact on a different development in the Gulf of Markets. Today, even in Cyprus alone, things are happening that are out of control by inspectors or no one knows what is going on with that mud where they're deepening the watershed at the semi-manufacturer's dam, and then we get it on the bonifi, as a basis for new construction operations, if that mud is really problematic, these are serious things. That is why we have a good opportunity to form a common demand in all this debate, a common expectation that they will finally be resolved and that the public concerned will be informed of all this. But let us leave this political and ideological ballast that you always drag and abuse to cloud the situation without making it clear. Thank you for your attention, and I'll leave you two minutes for a possible replica. I call you to a more constructive dialogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u85	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? On behalf of the proposer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u86	A replica, because I was mentioned. Especially about the last name. It's not the guilty party. It's the guilty party. As regards the introductory debate, I hope that you have understood it as constructively as well and that we want to help the Government and, above all, the Environment Minister in further action. What is out of this branch and how you feel certain paragraphs is somehow your problem, but the matter was not meant as you are somehow explaining it. And also this place at the border, thank God, I also know well how things are going in this cross-border space, how projects are placed, how they do not fit in, so there is also some experience on my part in this area. And I'm eating fish in that part too, so I wouldn't dare to unilaterally implement these facts as only the coast knows the problem. I agree with you about most of the things you said about placement and everything. That is why it is so much more surprising that we put all our heads in the sand as far as the clock is concerned. From June of last year until the end of last year 2009, certain facts about these relations between Italy and Slovenia were put in writing, but we were not informed. On the contrary. At the end of the year, we have even adopted a resolution that is contrary to what these documents say and here I see the problem and here the problem the government has in the next step, because we have tied her hands with a resolution. In the documents that we now have available, on how the Interdepartmental Commission negotiated and how the possibilities for the placement of certain facilities were also allowed, the government has already agreed to this and it would be right to warn us before we commit this resolution and thus block the negotiating base that the government has in relation to the placement of these facilities. And when we read this material where someone is talking about how it would be possible to put certain projects in place, and later we as the National Assembly and here I agree with you, we are also a binding body for the government, and our resolution is not just about adopting it and it is, as the dead line on paper was previously said, that when we adopted this resolution, we did not have this information on how the negotiations are negotiated, the agreements are taking place. Otherwise, we would probably have a different article, but now we have a problem. We also have a problem of not reporting to us by the government and a certain department, such as the conclusions of the National Assembly, the Committee and the resolution. That's the problem. Basically about the problem, about the environmental impact, about the impact on the people who live there, but I totally agree with you. But the procedure is not respected.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u87	Thank you. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Well-known Mr. Secretary and coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, today we've heard a lot about manipulation, communication, secret diplomacy, and I don't know what it's all about. Of course, one under secret diplomacy understands something, the other again and the third, but for some there secret diplomacy is a normal part of life and communication, but for some it is a strange thing. Because we're just in the football period, I mean those who have listened to, say, the tactics of some clubs and how and how do they negotiate, say, how to lock up in certain rooms, clubs and debate after months and months, and no one can know what the club's tactics are, who's in what kind, who's attacking who and who's defending who and in what area. But well, the thing is, it tastes and the thing is, it's just an artistic impression of how someone does things. Of course, this topic today has quite a long one, one would say, historical stock or a long tail. Very long tail. I mean, this is likely to be better known by Members of the previous call and you have talked about it, but since the climate of energy, environmental security is very important for the health of all of us, especially the legal and legal field is extremely complicated, and in particular, if there are two neighbouring countries that are in the European Union, it is only necessary to take into account certain legislation of the directive, which is largely forceful, almost one would say too much and doubt that in this environment, and not least in Brussels, there are people who simply know this legislation, but I will only read to you a little so that they do not think about how much things need to be taken into account and I have a very long list. I'm not going to go to Philibuster and I'm going to read, say, 7 or 14 or 24 hours, but just one page, just to see how much it means. These are just the addresses of certain rules to be followed. However, if the content of these titles were to be taken into account, the matter would be far more complex and certainly would be bigger for those who put their views on this and make final conclusions and conclusions. But surely the procedure as with us ends, and the other substantive matters are in other matters and areas. For example, we have a new directive on renewable energy sources, and Directive 2000/28, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 on the promotion of the use of renewable energy, and amendments and the subsequent repeal of the 2001 Directive remain only parts that still apply. Then we have a decision on the division of efforts No 406, 2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009, with Member States' efforts to reduce greenhouse gas emissions to a lower level by 2020, meeting the Community's commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and so on. Then we have a revision and reinforcement of the emissions trading system, and of course we have a number of other issues, and we also have a Parliament and Council Directive of 23 April on the geological storage of carbon dioxide and amending Directive 85, 337 EGES [[?]] Directive 2060 EC [[?]] and 2001/80 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation No 1013 and so on and so on. The main content of these Directives is the force of hardship and force, the force of delicacy. Finally, Brussels officials and specialists who interpret this, not to mention translation versions, are very different. And it is normal that there are different interpretations and views on this way of communication. And it's normal for everyone to protect their own and their own territory in their own way. You know, someone said it was a piranha bay, it's a cove, it's a bay of markets. We need to be aware of one thing; the Adriatic Sea is one sea. It is a sea that those who know how geologically it is set between which countries, that we do not now restore geography and we are all in this Adriatic Sea co-dependent, very! It looks far more than at first sight. There was a major accident just before Rovinj and there was an oil spill on the Italian side, where it went to the Adriatic Sea. And there was an accident in the cove, and so on and so forth, and we all shook for a few days, and then we just forgot for weeks, and we couldn't possibly understand and get enough energy to sign such a convention to protect the entire Adriatic Sea from the beginning to the end. Because you know the smallest oil spill in the beginning or in the middle of the Adriatic threatens everything. And I think that this debate, if we want to have some content, the tail and the head must think in this direction, at least in the future, because this is what a man would say in one stage that exists. But all other future discussions should go in this direction, that the Adriatic needs to be fully protected because, as such, it is already threatened after its very constitution, because it does not supply itself naturally enough and so on. And in the next all other phases, of course, it is necessary to protect the Mediterranean in one way too, because these are all closed seas, which are threatened by forces; from the voyage of such and different tankers with one bottom and not saying other things that are also the same and the same as dreams. However, it is certainly necessary to remind ourselves of the Aarhus Convention in a number of these different provisions of the Conventions and Agreements, and we must be aware of them and speak in particular, not now will I mention all the articles, but those who have fought for a period of time that this Aarhus Convention has also been adopted in Slovenia on how and how the public should be informed. How it is necessary to act that the public is well informed that all arbitrators, not only the public in general, are informed, including NGOs, professional institutions, institutes, advisers, not least all within the government, but also Parliament, and in due time all at the same time and not in part, one in January, the other in September, the fourth in December. So let this be in our minds when we discuss those things that may now be in the minds of those who may still have influence as ideas. These are things that were once, I would say, well routed and already done in another European country's procedure. So much for my colleagues and colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Welcome to the minister and the secretary with the team! I must say, there have been few extraordinary meetings where the Minister's colleagues have been watching so closely with the Minister himself, recording what's going on, talking. And I'm glad the minister at that press conference that some people are reading to him today didn't say much. Much was said by the Italian minister, but if from 1941 on we took seriously everything that our neighbours told us and so called extraordinary meetings, then we would have something bad written for us in Slovenia. I think the government, the minister, is reacting properly, maybe sometimes less words say more. I am pleased that today's session, which some try to use to promote political points, is to be divided into those who prefer the Gulf of Markets to those who are not supposed to like it, experience their epilogue and will not succeed with some controversial, impatient policy. Neither did they succeed in the arbitration agreement, nor did they succeed yesterday in commenting on the decisions of the Constitutional Court when, now that the Constitutional Court has decided as it has been, it has been necessary and, at the same time, necessary reform of the judiciary, so they will not succeed in today's division. Almost everyone on the left and right, in position and opposition, is united, we are not divided, as in the referendum, all of us are concerned with preserving the Slovenian sea, that the sea is in excellent, best condition. The paths we see are quite different. However, the basic objective and purpose is one: we love the sea, we want to keep it as ecologically as possible. And it is good that there are those who think as much as I think, much from Savudria down and that many who are concerned, what the state of the environment will be like on the other hand, in Italian. Even the Italians do not agree with the Italian minister's statement in this part. They are concerned about what will happen in this floating sea, which is an ecologically demanding habitat precisely because of its shallowness, because of all the historical facts, because of what rivers have brought there. And if we blow this up, there'll be trouble. Many, who are not from this area, do not know that farmers in schools in Slovenia, Croatia and Italy have already had difficulties in increasing concentrations of certain substances, such as heavy metals, in certain seasons, above the limits of normal, and all of this worries. But that politics deals with these problems only when there are more receptive stories than there is today. I am sure that, together with our neighbours, we will be able to place only what is on our side and on their side, which is not harmful to the environment. To walk, of course, on a very thin eyebrow, on the one hand, between the interests of capital, economic development, even among the interests of this, by which we want to increase income per capita on the one hand and between these natural and environmental positions. Today’s session of serious movements, not for good or for bad, will not cause, but it is right that we are familiar with the problem. It may be ironic, though, that after this introduction, those who apparently have enough information ask, as others do, that we are very different in our interpretation. They think, they paint, they probably do everything negative and black. But there are many of us, and in Slovenia more than half of us want to agree and agree on these matters, because it is clear to us that constant disputes, intolerance, hatred, the obvious do not lead forward and the people on our and the other sides of the borders value this and respect it. And when it comes to making decisions, it's the right thing to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam President. The meeting lasted 5 hours, the Government spent a minute and 58 seconds to discuss. In view of the fact that the Council of State has already adopted a decision in the previous term to inform the Government of all formal and informal meetings, that it is also necessary to respond to the debates of Members of the National Assembly, I propose that you suspend the meeting of the National Assembly and ensure the participation of the President of the Government, because he is the only one who can and must report on this point to the National Assembly. There is no other obvious, for the government has not responded to any debate, has not commented. However, it is clear from the discussions of the members of the coalition parties that something has probably already been agreed on with regard to these gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets. At least that's how you feel about this debate and change of attitude. I propose that, on the basis of Article 73(3) and Article 237 of the Rules of Procedure, the meeting of the National Assembly be suspended until the meeting of the National Assembly is attended by the President of the Government. If you cannot decide on your own as President, then I suggest that this procedural proposal be voted on by fellow Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u93	Thank you. The proposal is corrected, in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, it is true that the National Assembly may request information from the Government whenever it wishes. I also believe that the National Assembly may request from the President of the Government all relevant information on whom, with whom and what he, as President of the National Assembly, has negotiated, discussed and so on. If such information cannot be made public, it may be closed to the public. But I'm not going to interrupt the session myself, but I'm going to put a motion to the vote. However, since there are obviously not enough Members, I invite them to the Chamber to vote on the procedural proposal and therefore I am adjourning the meeting for four and a half minutes and will continue at 18.10. [[The session was suspended on 1806.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u94	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We're moving on to the session. Please check the operation of the voting apparatus, because we will vote on the proposal, as you have heard, to suspend the meeting and wait for the President of the Government to join us. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 21 votes against 30. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 30.]] I find that the procedural proposal is not adopted. That is why we continue the meeting and give the floor to Mr Chernač.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u95	Dear colleagues and colleagues! This panic on the part of the rulings could have been saved if the President of the National Assembly had respected the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and had put a similar decision to the vote when he had been proposed at the beginning of the meeting. I would remind you of the decision you made at the hearing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u96	I'm asking you to calm down a little bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u97	When considering the report on the work of the intelligence and security services for 2008, when you voted to suspend the decision in the same situation and requested an additional report from the Government in this regard. [[...]] Earlier, one of the Zareza members had told Mr Minister "read my lipes". In view of what I have now heard from his colleagues in the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups, it is quite clear that some agreement has already been made in the background. Members who have been opposed to these decisions all the time must for some time not to lose all their credibility in its entirety, but matters will take place in a similar manner as they did in the case of an arbitration agreement. I have to say, we're a long way from here. Now this so-called silent diplomacy is happening. We are now comparing the matter with the arbitration agreement somewhere else in Trakoscan, which means that it is not a very long time when this decision on gas terminals will also be formally cemented with a possible few months of squandering, because of the public on the part of the most loud in the ruling coalition, which will then be calmed after the cases have been adopted. Perhaps even here there will be an arbitration story that will blur this story for a while, perhaps at least by 2012, but I do not think this story will be so successful in this case, because at least as far as the terrestrial terminal is concerned, the neighbouring country will obviously continue these procedures faster and will be the first shovels if I can use this simplified term planted before 2012. In the Slovenian Parliament, we had a good basis in Slovenian politics, which concerns a rather good formal basis. We had fairly unanimous positions and decisions in this National Assembly, including in the previous mandate, in 2006. We had a route route that talked about the fact that the neighbouring country has no interest in Slovenia will not be able to carry out individual activities. Last year, the end of last year, this National Assembly adopted a resolution on the Adriatic Strategy. Last but not least, not long ago, less than the last year, we also have a European Commissioner for the Environment. However, all these good foundations in this story do not help us much because politics is taking place, or solves the problem in the same way as we have seen it in dealing with the Republic of Croatia. What helps us is the European Commissioner for the Environment, if he hasn't even responded to this problem - but this is not the Republic of Slovenia in this case. It's the northern Adriatic, it's some kind of natural habitat that can be definitively and irreparably valuable with inappropriate interventions. The task of any European Commissioner, especially the European Commissioner, who comes from Slovenia and knows this problem in much more detail and more closely, would be to make himself clear and decisive in such a case, not for the position of the Republic of Slovenia, but for the position of the Republic of Italy or Croatia. But for the position of the sea, for the position of the North Adriatic, which is some kind of closed bay, which is limited to the interventions that can be carried out in this area without having to have harmful consequences for the environment and for the population in this area. We didn't hear him. However, we have heard it, despite the fact that some in the ruling coalition have said that this is a non-political function, how it is strongly political, as many other senior Slovenian state officials have determined as regards an inadequate solution to the arbitration agreement with the Republic of Croatia. It was least appropriate for him to have called there and in the same period as we learned from the media about the final Italian position by the Italian Minister of the Environment on, if I simplify, you just wander around in Slovenia, we have made our decision and we are going this way, which we have feared, further. And at least what we should hear immediately that moment and the second that this was said in the place where this was said was the clear position of our Minister for Environment and Space, a clear protest supported by all the documents that this National Assembly has adopted in the last year or in the last four years and has strongly opposed this unilateral position. We have not heard this and, I must say, we have not heard it either today or in other statements. We've heard a lot about good neighbourly relations, about diplomacy, and obviously it's here, as I said, at work this quiet diplomacy that will solve all these problems that others can't solve. And we have heard, we only require a peer review report on the environmental impact of Italy, and this solves the problem. Do you think that the Republic of Italy, as a member of the European Union, with a significantly longer tradition than that of Slovenia, will do something contrary to their legislation and pass an appropriate environmental impact assessment? Everything that must be respected will be respected, as in any other country that has a legal order. But that's not what this is about. And at the point where we are today, with such a relationship and with such conclusions as have been proposed or voted on by this parliamentary committee, there is nothing we can do. Today we will decide under one that we are familiar with the information, be careful that the Republic of Italy has taken a decision on the construction of the terminal in Žavaje. That's the first decision. Below two, they took note of a government report on the implementation of the 2006 and under three decisions, a plan of action and measures and proposed to the government, with the support of this activity, to examine the shortening of the deadlines listed in there, which we have heard are reaching somewhere in 2011, when all the relevant authorisations that investors need are long overdue and final. And it was deleted on the Board of Directors, which spoke of the need for the European Commissioner for the Environment to be more actively involved in this issue and to protect the interests of all three countries, equally and equally, in the same way as Italy and the Republic of Croatia, because all three countries in this area are in some way involved. And that went out. On the parental committee, this part has gone out, and we will thus give our Commissioner a task that will discredit him in relation to other countries. Please. All of us in this National Assembly are Members of this country, all of us are obliged to represent the interests of this country, and it is normal that everyone always has the best interests of the environment from which it comes, not at the expense of the country's interests. It must be the same in the case of the European Commissioner. If I don't know why he needs 20,000 euros a month. In order to sit on a well-paid chair, such as the nickname ek makina, each of us has so much to say and send us the brains for something, ladies and gentlemen, neither needs Europe nor this country of the European Commissioner, nor does it need ministers and the Prime Minister for such things. However, it needs them to effectively protect our interests where it is important and where the interests of our country, our people and our space are concerned, and that is what this National Assembly expects from both the Minister and the Prime Minister. It is unworthy that the Prime Minister did not come forward here today in the National Assembly and explain what and how the government intends to act on this issue in the coming days, not in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u98	Thank you. Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Thank you very much. I'd like to speak with you for a moment. Perhaps it is not the experience of performing before the convention. This is the first time I've ever been tested like this. Perhaps I naively thought that the 31-page long document that we have prepared on June 10th and where it explains everything that is going on around the terminals, what our ministry is doing in this area and what the government is informed about is ahead of you. I thought it was a shame to waste your time and read this document you have on you. If necessary, I can do this too, but now allow me to think perhaps in five minutes alone or in three minutes from this debate today. I note that the honourable Members and Members of Parliament have the impression that I am indecisive during the discussion with the Italian Minister of the Environment, Mr Prestigiacimo, on 24 May 2010. Those who know me a little better know that I am very determined when necessary. Given that its news of the decision on terminals in Žavaje was new only ten months and the third time it had been announced, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia responded with conclusions on 18 February 2010 I decided at the meeting not to react to such fresh news in a particularly harsh way. I do not think that the unnecessary aggression in interstate talks at ministerial level is exactly in line with good diplomatic practice. It can even be valued as an expression of a lack of capacity for cultural dialogue, which Slovenia cannot be particularly proud and proud. I personally believe in the effectiveness of the legal procedure in accordance with the European legal order for which we decided in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia three months before the meeting in Trieste. The official reaction of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the meeting in Trieste followed all sixteen days after the meeting, as the Government adopted conclusions at the meeting on 10 June 2010 which are also the basis for today's proposed decisions at the National Assembly. In fact, you were prepared by the Committee of the National Environmental Assembly and the venue at its meeting on 10 June following the meeting of the Government on the same day. It is also interesting that the Government's conclusions came only six days after the last meeting of the Slovenian Italian Professional Commission, and thus the perceptions of delays are not exactly happy. From the introduction of the basic event chronology presented in the last four years, it can be calculated that on average three and a half months have taken place between them. It is clear that the preparation of documents necessary for quality transitions takes time. This may also justify a timetable for the following events. followed by a similar rhythm. It is normal for discussions to take place in accordance with good diplomatic practice at the time of the preparation of the document for quality progress in solving international problems. I believe that negotiators need to be trusted in particular when it comes to the highest authorities. I think trust is also part of a normal political culture, and that trust certainly goes to our Prime Minister. We must also trust the Commissioner for the Environment and Slovenia, who, in my deep belief, will work for the benefit of the environment in the excessively burdened market bay and thus also for the benefit of the living inhabitants there. However, the problem of the burden of the Gulf of Markets is also a problem that falls within the competence of the European Commissioner for Health, the Commissioner for Climate Change, the Commissioner for Transport, Energy and others. We are aware that the watershed of the bay is an ecologically sensitive area and an area with a special socio-economic function. This can also be checked if you go to Google, Natura 2000 review and is beautifully illustrated the sensitivity of this area. This area is surrounded by protected areas established in accordance with the European environmental protection order. Our part of this area protects the Nature Conservation Act, surrounded by Nature 2000 by a Habitat Directive, Mokriští per international Ramsar [[?]] convention, here we have urethra salts. The seabed is also problematic due to the burden of mercury, heavy metals, and other problematic substances. I am also aware of this, I believe, of the Minister of the Republic of Italy for the Environment and Space and the Minister of the Republic of Italy for Health, who on behalf of the European Union on 11 March 2010 signed the Parma Declaration between the World Health Organisation, WHO and the European Union, which is politically binding. Last but not least, in further talks, we will also remind the Italian side of this signature. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to suggest that you support the decisions proposed by the Committee on the Environment and Space. This will support the continued efforts of the government and our Ministry's co-workers. For the sake of achievement, Slovenia had the most advantageous breakup of the story that began four years ago. And in the end, my resignation may be the easiest step but in my nature there is no walking on light roads. I think I can contribute to the protection of Slovenian interests in the story that is now on the agenda of the National Assembly in the future. But I have understood many of your words in support of my work, and I thank you for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u100	Thank you. Mr Krivec appeared as the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u101	Thank you, again, for your word. Thank you, Minister, for coming by and explaining some things. However, when reference was made to the document we received, I would nevertheless like to have the answer to the question that I raised at the outset when I took this document, the real document that we received in the paper is whether the Government will, on the basis of the final document, decide on the preliminary procedure and send it to the European Commission and so on. In a document on their website, it is called the government, and it talks about when the government decides. What document is now in force? Has the government already decided to proceed with the procedure? Is that still up to you? Is that what you're saying, or when, or what?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u102	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, you've been summoned directly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I guess this is about the laps. Here in the document a clear process has been said several times. Documents are being prepared, a three-month "review" will be prepared, and on the basis of this prepared material the government will decide on the next steps. Not if she decides. I can't predict because we don't have the paperwork, we don't have the "review."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u104	Thank you. Okay, one more time, but then we'll give priority to the list. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u105	Thanks again, but still. That means that the document we have on the table is talking about "if" and that's not true. That's how I understood you. But it's very important, even though it looks banal, but it's important. Because if it says "when the Government decides" it means that this document is being prepared and will actually go into procedure. But if we say "if" that's a big difference. That's why I'm happy to explain. You're saying that what's on the official website and not what we got in the building.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr. Minister, can you confirm?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u107	Once again, the Slovenian will decide whether or not to make a decision. If you ask me, she'll make a decision because we can't prejudge the decision before we have quality documentation prepared. I think that's clear now.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u108	Thank you. Mrs. Pečan has a word on her list.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u109	Thank you for your word. I would first of all, given that I have held a meeting of the Committee on the Environment and Space and that it has been particularly stressed that we are considering the proposal for a decision prepared by the SDS Group on the occasion of the request to convene an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, I would like to draw particular attention to those who have repeatedly misinterpreted supporting the decision on the four points in which it was written that, specifically, the National Assembly also proposes that European Commissioner Potočnik do so and do so in relation to the procedure itself. Here I would like to point out that today we are discussing and will vote on a proposal for a decision that has three points: that we are familiar with the information that the Republic of Italy has taken a decision on the construction of one gas terminal. We have heard very clearly on the Committee's explanation that Italy has even asked Slovenia to be included in the assessment of the transboundary impacts of the offshore gas terminal and to be included in the assessment of the transboundary impacts of the construction of the marine gas pipeline on the Seaweed against, I don't know where it would go, probably in the Market, or something like that. So we're talking about Italy taking a decision on one terminal. Not to mention that Slovenia was included in the assessment of cross-border impacts on this terminal, even in accordance with the conclusions adopted at the 2006 meeting of the National Assembly. It is true, however, that Italy has taken into account only for us minor comments from our side or comments that have little weight. As a result, it is also very well written in the material provided by the Government on page 30, the indicative plan and timetable for activities and procedures in the period 2010-2011, where it is written to prepare a document for the preliminary procedure with the European Commission and a document for the appeal procedure under the EspO Convention of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by September 30, 2010. It is said that the expert committee preparing these documents should prepare by 30 September all the necessary documents for the initiation of the proceedings before the Commission. By noting in point 3 of the amended proposal that we have taken note of the action plan and measures, we propose to the Government to examine the possibility of shortening the deadlines provided for in the framework plan and timetable for activities and procedures in the period 2010-2011. That doesn't mean that September 30th is too long a deadline for anything to be missed. Why? Because of the fact that when the investor makes the preparation of the documentation to obtain the building permit, he will have to make a comprehensive assessment of the environmental impacts that are not only ecological, one would say, the real environmental impacts, which is why Mr Malekkar is also now talking about yesterday or the day before on television that Italy has decided to replace the technology of liquefied natural gas instead of marine water with excess energy produced in the gas thermal power plant, which is also supposed to be built in Žavaje. And it opposes, as an environmentalist, as a civil society, the construction of a thermal power plant. But what I mean by this is: the construction of a thermal power plant and the use of energy surpluses from this thermal power plant, it is said, that the hot water released in electricity production could, of course, replace seawater and thus solve the problem of raising mud in the Gulf of Markets when the sea water used is returned to the sea on the one hand and, on the other hand, the pollution of sea water by cleaning agents that must be used to prevent pipelines from growing with different marine organisms and, in particular, algae and shells. So all these things are important to understand that Italy is not exactly what it said, we will not take into account any of the proposals made by the Republic of Slovenia, but have heeded some warnings. However, in our view, in particular those warnings, which are relevant on other sides, are an increase, a strong increase in maritime transport due to the transport of natural gas to Zavlja or to the port of marketing and a potential danger due to, say, a terrorist attack on a gas terminal or on a gas vessel. Here I would like to draw attention to one thing: that Slovenia and Slovenia will certainly request the European Commission, as well as the European Court of Justice, to assess the overall impact of maritime transport in the Gulf of Markets in both ports, both copiers and marketplaces. We need to know that this moment comes to both ports, and in particular to the marketing port a huge amount of highly flammable substances also of dangerous substances not only as flammable but also as toxic substances. Supertankers arrive at the market port, which have 200 and more tons of carrying capacity, the first, the second, which is driven by petrol, not only oil, but mainly petrol, which is then led by gasoline to the reservoirs in the valley, which is according to the profession, according to the knowledge that the world today has significantly more dangerous than the transport of liquefied natural gas, is significantly more dangerous because, therefore, volatile gasoline can be fuelled much faster than the flues of liquefied natural gas. But let's let this be the profession that Lord Jerovšek, I did not fall into your word when you were making fun of crazy things and therefore I ask you nicely if you let me say what I know. [[..]] And that's why [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] Yeah, it looks like, yeah, it's chemistry, too, it's got some biology. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u110	Well, please calm down. Only Mrs. Pecanova has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u111	Thank you. So, I would like to say that, when we appear before the European Commission, I am convinced that we will probably have prepared documents before September, that we will represent the position that the whole of the Bay of Markets needs to be unloaded by large vessels, that in fact maritime transport needs to be restructured, because it is the one that is most threatening for the whole of the North Adriatic and especially for the great swimming of the Gulf of Markets. It is necessary to consider how we will develop both ports, what we will deliver, whether we will still have bulked cargo in Cyprus, or whether the Tržaška port will continue to supply the deepest bay in southern Europe with unlimited quantities of oil and petroleum derivatives. That's what we have to ask ourselves. And let's ask ourselves if these supertankers are really safe for our bay not because of a possible spillout, but mainly because of their very large cliff they are already lifting mud at the bottom of the Gulf of Markets and causing the loading of mercury into everything, especially the inferior organisms, that is, the shells that we eat by the way, including all the fish that live at the bottom of the leaves that we know how precious they are and how we value them, but we are not aware that they are already exceeding the permitted concentrations of mercury in the meat. Therefore, the problem of the North Adriatic and the Gulf of Markets is much more complex than the construction of a gas terminal in Žavaja, and I therefore believe that it would be a prudent and qualitative decision to adopt this decision, prepared by the Committee on the Environment and Space and that at the same time we are proposing to the Government to accelerate the activities related to the decision or activities set out in the resolution, this is to declare the Gulf of Markets or the North of the Adriatic, probably because it goes from the tip of the Istrian peninsula to the outflow of the fall, all that is north of here is a very shallow, very sensitive sea, very unstable as far as biological balance is concerned. We need to know that we are constantly running out of oxygen, that every few years we die at the bottom of the North Adriatic to 100,000 shells, as well as a variety of bottom fish, precisely because our oxygen concentration at the bottom is getting worse and we need to achieve this simply so that we do not burden the North Adriatic with excessive sewage. On our side we have tackled this problem, and we have cleaning facilities for all three places already practically built, we need to ask ourselves what is happening on the western side of the North Adriatic. We know that Pada and I are coming to the northern Adriatic with huge amounts of organic substances that cause poisoning or I'm going to say no to poisoning because organic matter essentially consumes a lot of oxygen and therefore causes so-called annexation. I think that it is necessary to think more broadly and that, above all, it is necessary to support, I know not today, but nevertheless, the decision taken by the Government that Italy should be discussed, including the placement of all major projects in the Gulf of Markets and its coastal area, which could have cross-border environmental effects, and that this group, these ministries listed here in the 5th paragraph of the Government Decision of 10 June, that this is a particularly important topic. Therefore, I seriously suggest that we do not call here because, given the discussion that I have heard so far, a little sarcasm will probably not hurt me. Today, for the first time, we have heard that in 200 years our successors will be eating frogs that will live in the northern Adriatic. I have to say, therefore, purely from the professional field that amphibians, not just frogs, no amphibian lives in seawater. That's one Yes, the only thing if there's a chance of fresh water then in the North Adriatic, and then maybe the frogs will live. [[...]] There's a riot in the hall. The second thing I'd like to say is, I've heard more than once today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u112	Well, please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u113	I have heard many times, I will say impatient calls to return Slovenia or to ensure Slovenia to return to the Furlania-Julia region, that order should be made here, because the Italians stole the sea and so on. [[...]] The one who thinks I didn't look at the magnetogram, I have to say that I went to see if I heard correctly, because I was a little bit cut off from having to break all diplomatic relations with the Republic of Italy. I would say so, not speaking like my colleague Yuri, who knows the theory of diplomacy more, I would say so - today we should call the President of the Government here in, but on such initiatives, we should call three people: the President of the State, who, as I know, is the commander of the armed forces of the Republic of Slovenia, the President of the Government and the Minister of Defence. Because of such initiatives, the end result is a war forecast. I don't think there's a reason and it's not worth going so far to promote intolerance to our neighbors in the National Assembly. All the problems can be solved by talking, negotiating, and let me say one more thing. Even by reading what we get. We have read your material, the Government has given to all Members the material that I have already discussed in the procedural proposal and I would like to point out that Mr Potočnik specifically did nothing wrong with the meeting of the Commission, which should address the issue of relations between Italy and Slovenia with regard to the gas terminal in Zavja, because he called this meeting but was cancelled because the President of this Commission - I do not know how to write, let the Greek - have to return to his home because he was solving the problems of their debt-financial crisis. And I'm sure this meeting is about to happen. At the same time, I must also say why we should not adopt the fourth point, which was in the proposed decision of the candidates for the extraordinary meeting. I also agree with the fact that the Commissioner, the Commissioner for Transport in the previous term, has acted improperly, although formally in the interest of all European citizens coming to Slovenia or going over Slovenia and being affected by vineyards. But I can promise something that can be very dangerous to me. I would like to cut my head off that, certainly, neither in the Parliament of the Republic of Italy nor in the Senate of the Republic of Italy nor the Government of the Republic of Italy is available to the gentleman - what is it already written? - Tajani ordered, ordered, proposed to act in favour of the citizens of the Republic of Italy in relation to the wines. I just don't believe it. And for this reason, I have also proposed that point 4 of this Decision be deleted because I think we would have made a precedent that would have shown us very badly before the European Union and also before all the other Member States of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Then it's Mrs. Irgle's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u115	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, I hope that the colleague of Pecan's will still come with her head to the meetings of the National Assembly. Otherwise, after all of these discussions, which we have witnessed today, mainly of coalition types, it is clear that everything is already agreed on with regard to gas terminals. This means that the Slovenian Government has again given up foreign interests, for the first time in the case of Croatia and the arbitration agreement, and for the second time in the case of Italy and the gas terminals. How else can I explain the fact, and at the same time seriously wonder what information has actually been given to Mr President Borut Pahor, that he cannot even tell the Minister of Environment and Space in question? There must be something very difficult, but we will probably be able to learn more about it in the future, but it will be too late. In short, it is happening today that, just as the Prime Minister of the Government was working with the opposition when he was negotiating an arbitration agreement, he is working with his ministers today. Just as he didn't say anything to the opposition at the time, and now he wants us to be very constructive about the arbitration agreement, he obviously doesn't say anything to the Minister for the Environment today. I am pleased, Mr Žarnic, that you are with us today, even though you do not have sufficient information, you have been thrown into this matter despite the lack of information. In fact, you feel a little sorry for me, as my colleague Jerovšek said before. I followed you on my own yesterday at the Odessa, and I felt little regret that in this Government we have a minister who has nothing to say to the press. And that's the problem. I think it would be good for the President of the Government to be present at this meeting today and to know instead of the Minister, not because the Minister would not know, but because the Minister does not know that he would explain some of the open dilemmas that we are exposing today in order to answer the key questions relating to the gas terminals in order to at least partially answer or point out some of the ways that have been made during diplomacy. This I think is a key question and, above all, that we need to talk about them and get some answers. We are in the previous term, and I myself have been a Member in the previous term, and I voted in favour of this, and I voted in favour of those conclusions that spoke about the need for the government and, of course, the Ministry of Field Affairs to inform us of what is going on with regard to the construction of gas terminals. Unfortunately, however, the government no longer respects this, nor does it respect these very important conclusions. And the Prime Minister is like the signing of an arbitration agreement, but he likes to solo, he likes it in public, he likes it at home, he likes it expensive, so he likes to be exposed. That is why, of course, he also likes to solo, although in times to the detriment of this Slovenian country. He doesn't give any information. Of course, I can understand that not all information is available to the public and that there is a need to be careful about what is being said in public. The fact that the Prime Minister with three thousand euros of wages cannot survive is one of those things that would be better if he bit himself in the language, given that we know what the social situation of some individuals in this country is. So, we all know that every piece of information can't go public like that. However, such an important problem which touches Slovenian citizens, Slovenian citizens, should be discussed, and if such information, which is obviously very mysterious, can be said in public, then it is right to say it in a closed session. We are obliged, even as Members, to respect the rules and we must not continue to speak of confidential matters that are held in confidence. But it is right that the Minister of the Environment and Space knows what is going on in his primary home area. But we're actually used to that. This means that the Prime Minister does not trust his own ministers. He also attends meetings of Slovenian railways on a regular basis instead of Mr Vlačić, as if he did not trust his own minister and we have a similar problem here. In short, something happened in the Odessa yesterday, which certainly isn't good. On the contrary, Mr Minister has been completely speechless, just as Mr Minister, of course I don't blame him, because he obviously doesn't have enough information, he was completely speechless when an Italian colleague told him that all the procedures had been completed for them, so that these gas terminals would stand there. So, Italy has reached its goal, and our minister has lost his words. Mr Križman, I listened to him before in his debate, said that the team of Minister Žarnic was good at doing well. I have no doubt that Mr Žarnic has a good team, but the problem is that this good team has no data and then cannot show all the good work and knowledge it has, because it has no data and cannot operate on things, cannot offer us any answers. And once again, it would be a good idea for the Prime Minister to be with us today. However, the National Assembly has not accepted just a handful of conclusions that the government must inform us of what is going on in Zavaja, or the Gulf of Markets, and so on. But this country has adopted a series of resolutions and conventions, which also speak of governments having to inform their citizens, and of course of course a minister who is responsible for this on what is going on in the field of environmental issues. I will only mention the Aarhus Convention, we have signed it together with 35 countries and the European Community on 15 June 1998. Then this National Assembly or Slovenia ratified it in the spring of 2004. What does it say within this Aarhus Convention? The main purpose of this agreement is for the State to commit itself to making it possible for the public; firstly, firstly, to look at government documents that provide environmental information and thus also agreements between governments and countries. I'm not talking about the most hidden information. It is then incumbent upon the Government to take part in such important environmental decisions, including other relevant stakeholders who are familiar with this issue. But none of this clearly holds for this government. So now it would be good for the Minister to reply, or the Government, as well as the Minister to adhere to these principles, which we have signed and ratified ourselves or how, or when we take this into account, when it does not suit us, we do not take this into account. Of course, this Aarhus Convention has other important elements. In fact, it says that early public information can be used to prevent harmful effects on the environment. Of course, but it is necessary to keep the public informed and informed. And, of course, early public information allows sufficient time to be prepared in particular for cooperation. But it doesn't matter to us anymore because we've agreed on everything. Since the gas terminals will, it was obvious from the coalition's discussions, even the Minister for Environment and Space does not have some data to convince me that there are other things open and that everything is not fully agreed on, so I think it is good that we support these conclusions that we have. However, I am also pleased that, after six hours of discussion, Mr Minister has responded to certain dilemmas within this debate. Although I have already understood the closing speech, although we have about two hours to go, but if I am not mistaken, now some things will be answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Please Minister of Environment and Space, Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u117	Mr President, honourable members of the National Assembly, honourable Member. It's nice to hear you're kind of sympathetic to me, but there's nothing to feel for. The point is, if you want, my direct answer to this dilemma, what Mr Pahor and Mr Berlusconi should be talking about. I honestly don't think much, because for a short time, at least to what we read and know, the program, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] with other things occupied and frankly, I think there are only two, three polite words to talk about these things. [[...]] I believe this seriously, and even this way today before the government's meeting, he also told me in this sense that he thinks that the talks are necessary. As soon as there's something to tell us, he'll let us know, and I think we have to trust and believe here, he's our president. If we don't believe him, then it's bad for this country. As for the rest, of course, we respect the conventions. We're trying to inform. If you look at the Ministry's website the day after the meeting with Minister Prestigiamo, this short report is written. We're trying to get this information to our website in one day. You just have to read it. For three months, you will receive a report of approximately 30 pages. It's no problem. We'll agree on 10 pages every month, and we'll keep you posted. We don't have a problem with information, and I'm very glad you want to be more informed. I promise you will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The speaker also made a statement. Mr. Guilty.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u119	Thank you, again, for your word. Much has been said about certain principles and what certain conventions represent, but this has not been seen in the reporting so far, so you also have on your hands certain proposals for amending conclusions and I hope you will support them. However, I wanted to respond to the implementation of my colleague, Pecanova, where it was to be observed that, however, as chairman of the committee, he knows a lot more than we do, ordinary Members. She spoke very sovereignly about some of the projects that are going on about placements and so on, about what it means to extend the port of Koper, Market Port. The listener would conclude that some things have already been arranged or are happening. I would also point out that the vast majority probably do not know, but that enlargement of the port of Koper is a major extension, and there is also a significant risk that increased navigation will result in the same effects that this assessment advocates somewhere in the direction of additional increases in traffic at gas terminals. And it is probably also this problem that speaks in that Slovenia and Italy are trying to agree on something. It should be known, however, that gas tankers have a significantly lower margin than oil tankers and a similar and significantly lower margin than container ships. In the case of the port of Koper, it is only an increase from, I think, 13 million tonnes, which are now in place somewhere, to about 40 million. This is more than a threefold increase in traffic flows, which also means a threefold increase in traffic in the Gulf of Markets from the point of view of imports of this material. The issues are much more related, and I absolutely agree with my colleague here. However, it follows from the fact that in some way we are only informed of certain procedures, that some agreement may already be in progress and that this silent diplomacy takes place in some way past the National Assembly, committees and others, although it is a very large cross-border influence in the placement of such large facilities. However, I expect to end by supporting the conclusions that have been proposed by these additions that you have on the table, because it has been clear from the debate so far that members of the coalition feel in some way deprived of the information that is being transferred by the Government and the Ministry to the National Assembly as a body that has adopted certain decisions and resolutions in the past. However, as regards the initiative set out in point 4, which we have withdrawn in some way from the Committee or which has not been voted on, it is not that we would rape the European Commissioner for a concrete solution, but that the initiative goes in this direction to engage more actively. I think it is so uncomplicated that I doubt here that any country would have a calm view that the Commissioner has a European Parliament, which is not in any way interested in the issue of his country. Taking into account, of course, all the European standards and declarations that have been adopted. But a positive one, I would say a call in this direction, but I do not think it is contrary to any legal order, and I doubt that anyone would take such a call, that it is pressure on the Commissioner to resolve the matter in a particular case in our favour. So I hope that, at least as far as this is concerned, we have somehow cleared up. It was not our intention to give the Minister or the European Commissioner direction on how to resolve the matter, but rather to engage more actively in this issue. This is what I think we as an equal member of the European Union have the opportunity and we can do it in any way. In the average for another Commissioner and for a similar issue, it is unlikely that there would be any thought, but also as the National Assembly, to point out that some of the issues need to be tackled and probably would not have these concerns. So sometimes we are causing ourselves some obstacles and acting in some way handicapped within the European Union even though we are not, we are full-fledged members, and if we alert a Commissioner to some problem, this does not mean that we have an impact on him. So I'd suggest we think about this a little bit better. Because it is not a matter of pressure in the direction of resolution, but rather of the fact that the European Commission is a little more committed to this issue in terms of procedural solutions within the framework of the directives and all the conventions that apply.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Breda Pecan replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u121	Very short. I don't know anything more than you do, Mr. Krivec. The 4th point of the Framework Plan states in the second indent that the Ministry of the Environment, together with the competent ministries and governments, should, by 30 September, prepare the starting points for talks and negotiations between Italy and Slovenia on the placement of all major projects in the Gulf of Markets and its coastal area, which could have cross-border environmental effects, and here, of course, I have opened up the theme of the port of Cyprus and the port of Market in view of the increase in maritime transport in both ports. And the increase in capacity in the Kore port certainly does not mean triple traffic in the entire Gulf of Markets, but only in the Kore port. That's the first one. Secondly, when I spoke about the possible construction of the gas thermoelectric power plant, I spoke on the basis of what I heard in the reflections from Mr. Malečkar, Mr. Minister was present, who was talking about Italy planning a gas thermoelectric power plant in Žavaje, and he sent us, I think not only me, because he sent it through the GP, which I don't know what it means, so our email sent it to the State Choice where it was written, there was a yellow square written next to that yellow color. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible, Italian.]] That means it's probably an energy facility. [[...]] So, I don't know any more than you do, I'm just explaining what's possible and there's nothing in the back, just my ass.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Andrej Magajna has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u123	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Secretary. It's a nice greeting to all in attendance. I am among the last more at the end of the list of discussers and will not make summaries for this are conclusions even though the conclusions are usually written before the meeting. However, I will refer to individual claims, conclusions and opinions; one of the conclusions or conclusions has a long history. The terminal is not suitable for installation at the intended location in the Gulf of Markets. This is probably what we all agree on, and we have discussed it, and we have also taken decisions at the Committee and at the National Assembly. Although today and will always be politicized in the future, this topic also has its content and its real content, as well as its political connotation. We could say that in today's debate there is concern or that we will successfully implement these legitimate requirements and also the conclusions we have adopted. Despite the fact that the current minister or Commissioner of the European Commission is Slovenian, or as some have said cynically, we are afraid because he is Slovenian. So far, our Italian neighbours have covered the area of the environment in the European Union for the longest time. Three periods Lorenzo Natali [[?]] , once Carlo Carlos Muniocca [[?]] . He's in this role now, as we know, Slovenian. Which is why we've heard. It doesn't matter which country the Commissioner is from. He has to be impartial, so he represents everything. We would say that our only advantage is that we do not need to go from the absence of Commissioner "ill commisario dove sei" [[?]] , we can translate this into Slovenian or he listens to us. How much has been said today about what the Italian Minister has said, whether the Minister for the Environment has done the right thing? I agree with my colleague, my friend Mr. Krizman, the minister is doing well, he has a good team. But we don't know from the information, maybe anyone else does. But there's no point in who said anything, who didn't say. I agree, however, that we do not make enough use of the European Institute. Europe has criteria, very strict criteria for environmental protection. And this is where we point, not the driblings, I'd say, the media. We know that Italian diplomats are very experienced and master their skills. We have institutions in Europe, we have a commission, not just one, for energy, for transport, for the environment, we turn to that, and we do the best we can here. Well, not least we have our own Commissioner and let's hope and trust.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The word has Joko Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I will be pleased to support this proposal for a decision, which is on the agenda and the proposal for a decision of the Home Committee in three points. It certainly seems correct to me that, as far as Mr Potočnik is concerned, the discussions between Mr Potočnik and Minister Žarnic have been concluded and recorded as regards gas terminals, and that this has been said as follows, as stated in the text: As Commissioner for Environment and Space, Mr Potočnik will also pay attention to the Gas terminals. It points out, however, that he is neither a lobbyist nor a mediator, but is willing to carry out his function to the maximum extent possible within the framework of legislative powers. But when you listen to this debate that was here today, I often didn't know whether it was what was on the agenda, whether we had an interpretation on the agenda against the government or against the Prime Minister. Somehow you ask yourself in all these additional explanations by the proposer or his colleagues, whether we are talking about the same part of the sea or some other part. Time seems to be precious only to some, but content is only important as understood. Because you can understand why you're talking here. But you can say that you spend time in front of TV cameras and you're shown and you don't know what you're saying or what a lot of people don't understand, and most of all, it's not what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u126	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, this debate today fully defended Prime Minister Borut Pahor, who also plays a very soloist role in this area and does not inform his closest associates, nor the Minister of State, and is even less prepared to inform the National Assembly about these silent steps, including desert ones. The second point of the discussion of the coalition MPs in the National Assembly is the immeasurable desire to defend the European Commissioner for the Environment, Mr Potočnik. This merely shows that, in fact, through the discussions we had today at this point in the agenda, something is actually happening in this area, which binds the European Commissioner's hands because no one from Slovenia is putting pressure on him. Apparently, there are some agreements in this area that are longer-term than we think. After all, if I quote Borut Pahor, who declared 24ur.com that he and his Italian colleague, Silvio Berlusconi, were preparing solutions to the mutual benefit of both countries in the area of gas terminals, this says something great. Not what the minister says you were just exchanging two polite phrases, but saying something else. It is said that these stories happen in a different way than those that are regulatory, which is prescribed, which is common to parliamentary democracies. In this debate, I would also like to draw attention to the Prime Minister's opening position when he gave the chronology of the activity, and I would like to divide it into the chronology he gave until the end of the previous government's mandate and from the beginning of this government's mandate. At that time, when this happened in the previous government between 2006 and 2008, the Minister stated that when Slovenia was informed of opinion 73 on the environmental acceptability of the gas terminal in Žavlja, it was informed on 1 August 2008, Slovenia strongly protested that opinion, as it was adopted without a cross-border environmental impact assessment. She protested harshly. As we move forward and look at what the previous government has done in the post-election period, it is said that on 30 October 2008, after the elections, when a new coalition was formed, this new government did everything possible and prepared and forwarded to the Italian government a comprehensive documentation of comments on these terminal matters; this is a statement by the Minister. But what has begun since the end of the former government's mandate and the start of the new government. First, on 17 July 2009, the Italian government announced that it would build a gas terminal in Žavaje. And that's when Minister Erjavec filed a written disagreement. But unfortunately, there was no announcement by the National Assembly that anything in this area had happened. Then it was 9.11.2009 again, I think it was even in Brdo, and then Minister Erjavec expressed disagreement and called Italy and requested a study for Žavlje and gas pipeline. This was during the period of your predecessor, who was relieved. He must have been relieved because he dared to protest twice actively with the Italian government and to request documentation and additional studies for this pipeline. On 24 May, when the joint press conference of the Slovenian and Italian ministers in Trieste said this the third time, our minister remained silent. This is an approach, it is a serious reaction or a way of reacting by Slovenian ministers to the previous and current government. It's obvious. It is said that this weakening scenario is continuing systematically and probably also targeted. Slovenia must have accepted the fate that those gas terminals would be there both on land and at sea. The only protest expressed by Slovenia was due mainly to the fact that Italy, in these cross-border influences in this study, had drawn a central line in the Gulf of Piran. In short, we can see here that there is a process, even a common process between Italy and Croatia in this area, because both of them started to use the central line in the Gulf of Piran before the period of the arbitration agreement. It's not such an innocent thing. In fact, because I was pushed out of the debate by my colleague Pecanova, it was that she said in the debate that it was necessary for the North Adriatic to unload large vessels. This means the next step towards the closure of the port of Koper, because large vessels in the northern Adriatic will be directed only to the port of Koper, they will be directed to the port of Trieste and the dosing of gas terminals. According to his colleague Krivec, these ships, which have a significantly smaller margin for gas terminals, are possible only these two, that is to say, or a reference to the traffic of large ships for the port of Koper or for the port of Trieste. Probably not for Luca Trieste, because there are two new terminals working there, but probably for Luca Koper, who is the only one left in this area, the only one left. And I am sure that the coalition is running some strange game in this area of managing interstate matters in the Gulf of Piran in the Slovenian Sea, both through an arbitration agreement, both by quietly letting go to the terminals, because this is evident from all this documentation that is here, so this statement by colleague Pečanavo, who, among other things, did not support the resolution on the strategy for the Adriatic, and so on. In short, it is a systematic limitation of the potentials of Slovenia. And just to mention that our Ministry of Transport is very concerned with how to tie Luka Trieste to the Slovenian railway cross and not by linking Luka Koper to the Slovenian railway cross. This shows where the policy of this coalition leads. All of this shows where the policy of this coalition leads. And I wonder when we are talking so much about this resolution for the Adriatic, have you perhaps offered this resolution for the Adriatic to ratify neighbouring Croatia and Italy? Is it just an internal document to hold a five-to-six-hour debate here, a document of no value and no weight for any of the neighbouring countries? You have offered it, a respected coalition, a respected president of the National Assembly. Will neighbouring countries ratify and accept what we have written down by the Slovenians in this resolution? Maybe someone can smile and laugh, but that's what these things look like. Unfortunately, it is also a problem that this word, if and when, has previously been pointed out by Comrade Krivec in a government document adopted by the Government, writes when Slovenia initiates proceedings. Document submitted to the National Assembly if Slovenia initiates proceedings. This was said during the decision at the Government and the delivery of documents to the National Assembly, a significant change took place. I wonder which document was forged? Which one? Is the government going to trigger and decide or is it thinking about triggering this? I think that the presence of the President of the Government was not only because of what he was negotiating with Mr. Berlusconi, but also because of the embezzlement of the document in the National Assembly or because [[...]] [[Incomprehensible,]] The National Assembly, not for the first time, that this matter should also be answered in a clear and unequivocal manner. [[...]] And one more thing, the committee in its decision deleted the word that Italy had unilaterally taken a decision. Why did you delete this unilaterally? Whether this is accepted bilaterally, it is accepted in agreement with the Slovenian side or whether this deletion of this word unilaterally has any other deeper meaning, which no one wants to explain in this National Assembly. Italy has taken this decision unilaterally or has taken it, and I now ask, with the consent of the Republic of Slovenia on the terminals in the Gulf of Markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Breda Pecan replica, 24 seconds, if I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u129	That's all I'd say is that the constant search for conspiracy and what's behind it, I've already answered in my own debate, what's behind it, so I wouldn't repeat it. And when we talk about the capacity of the North Adriatic and the Gulf of Markets, of course this capacity refers both to Cyprus and to the port of marketing and so let nothing worry Mr Tank whether we can reach an agreement or not. I am confident that we are able to reach an agreement that will benefit the Republic of Slovenia and [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u131	Your Honor! When the request came for the convening of an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, I believed that it was something that was necessary, which was ahead of all other priorities. However, when I also read the whole material, I actually saw that in this paper only five pages of my own contribution, but all the rest of the material from May 2006, where we former Members of the Liberal Democracy and SD were trying to help, to protect Slovenian interests and that, surely, and then to go watch and this was published in the newspaper, how the activities took place between February 2006 and February 2010, it can be found that Slovenia was active and here, of course, applies both to the previous government and to the present as well, and that this is a matter that is not only related to whether someone likes or not, but that it is a process with which they are engaged and the things in this process that are being dealt with by those who have important powers, responsibilities on one hand or on the other, and in this case I have to say, that during this time the whole, but mainly on the Committee for Foreign Affairs and European Policy, that the power of the matter, that we have not been able to find all the necessary to do so much of the demands on the Italian side of the matter, that the matter, that the matter, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, that, and in particular on the latter on the other on the other on the other on the other on the other on the other hand, and in particular, and in the other hand, that I have a certain on the other hand, and in fact, and in fact, that I have a certain on the matter, and in fact, that I have a certain that I have a certain, that I have a certain, that I have a certain, that I have a certain, that I have a certain, and in fact, that I have a certain, that I have a certain, that I have a certain. That there's some old disease, someone talking to someone, and I don't know that. I believe Mr Minister, he did not have to explain that at such a meeting under the tent, when the two presidents have a little bit of patience and exchange a few polite phrases, they do not agree on any matter, but if they agree, if they have already agreed, then it means that he must come to the procedure for the Government to be in the National Assembly, if it is an agreement or an agreement on a matter, and yet he has powers under the law of the National Assembly. So that the sowing of these doubts, of these constants, as I would call it, of provocations that would show that in the Government people who are not interested in Slovenian interests who are doing their job badly, only those who have been in the last four years have done everything as they were best and only right, and if they had the opportunity to work forward, probably what we have now on the table would not be. I believe that every country within its priorities and its rights is doing what I think is best and that is obviously what Italy has been doing. Italy probably does this not only because it would tease Slovenia, but because it has an interest in regulating some things. How these things are being met and where these interests need to be coordinated, however, is the only place within the European Union countries, which is why we have also gone to the European Union to be able, together with our neighbours, to deal with the most vital issues with the European Union countries, in particular with regard to these issues when it comes to environmental protection, sustainable development, for all that is involved. After all, this debate coincided with discussions on the Copenhagen Conference and some other current issues. Well, that's not something someone could just come here and say, but now we're going to deliberately threaten Slovenia, and I don't know what we're doing. The fact that it is, for example, only a case if you remember five, six years ago, or now it is seven and more before we went to the European Union, what problems we had with the Austrians, as well as with the Italians, about the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. In fact, nuclear energy is, in fact, the most desirable or promoted in future energy planning. It means that some things change. I don't know if the terminals are gonna be like this or different tomorrow, good, best for the Gulf of Markets. I hope there will be no, because I still believe that this is still a technology and that the substance that builds up there can be potentially dangerous for the environment, for people and so on. But nevertheless, things need to be done within some procedures, within some of the procedures that exist for this. Even with us, after all, within the country, I don't know, we've been chasing about the asphalt base, and there's been 10 years or how long there is a legal matter, and it's harmful. But I guess these interests need to be reconciled. Or else it doesn't work. For this I absolutely support the position that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, after all these procedures, prepares all the documentation and decides when it is necessary to decide and report to the National Assembly and does not miss any step. I have no reason not to believe in the government, and I must say here that I find it truly underestimating that you speak through, even in the afternoon, you talk about how the minister of God is, how they don't trust him, how I don't know what and so on. None of this is true. The Minister shall have all the powers and responsibility to carry out these tasks, and the President of the Government shall have different powers and responsibilities and other tasks. And here it takes only a little benevolence, a little good will, that there are not some people on this government who are sloppy and who do not want to work for the benefit of this Slovenia. There's more to the joke that they don't keep each other informed about things. I am convinced that what is important for the matter itself, whether the Minister knows it or will come to all the information before further decisions are made and that decisions will be made on this basis, not on the basis of some speculation and mutual incitement, and I do not know what else. What I'm actually asking for from this session is not good, to be honest, I know what the purpose of this session was, but to look closely at what he's trying to say through the conclusions here. Janez Potočnik, Commissioner from Slovenia has too little work and too much pay, someone said. It's the most modern. John Potočnik should do it if he doesn't know what to do. But Janez Potočnik is the Commissioner, who is indeed from Slovenia, but has powers within the framework of the European Commission, which, after all, also received the hearing through the European Parliament, and if I have understood the applause of the audience for the presentation. And that three-quarter year, as far as he's concerned, he's already shown something. Whatever you want, I don't want to judge this at this point, but there's no place in the National Assembly to discuss whether he's a quality and even a good performer of this work, nor do you think he's done too little. This has nothing to do with the basic thread that should be present in these discussions, but it has a connection or you want to avoid these things at all costs, use all the mechanisms and all the means or work the wind to make it possible. Just so you can say, we said, and the result is whatever it is, and it's this government's fault. But that's not very good.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the government's representative, Minister? He doesn't want to. Would you like to speak with the proponent Daniel Krivec? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, again. Well, my colleague got off to a very good start, and he also told me what the main problem was. In order to convene this meeting, it was necessary to make an effort to find the newspaper articles, since we do not have the material because the material is not provided. And this is a key problem that we wanted to point out - that the government and the ministry do not keep us informed, and you have also indirectly acknowledged this. In the meantime, you have talked about how we met in the National Assembly and in the Committees, unfortunately only the Committee on Environment and Space, we have never had these meetings in this term. Even in the National Assembly, after the adoption of the resolution, there was no talk on data, terminals and how the negotiations were conducted. So I am very pleased with your findings, which confirms our thesis that in this case we are misinformed or not at all, and it is not true that we attacked a minister in the material who is now sitting in this place, but we wanted the minister to be properly assisted by the government. Also, my colleague Pečanova has somehow replicated to my colleague, Jožet Tanka, not to worry, it will be arranged. We are all concerned about what is happening, because this problem has been within the competence of the National Assembly since 2006, within the competence of the committees in the National Assembly, and this has been taking place until our government in some way ended the mandate and you have taken over the negotiations with the neighbour on this subject. So it's not that easy to take things that are somehow very important to our country. So it is quite problematic that today at the STA at 5:30 p.m., it is true just before we should conclude the meeting, but we get a lot of interesting statements from President Borut Pahor on the subject of this meeting, which we are all talking about, in some way, that it is right to get to know this, both colleagues in the coalition as we are in the opposition. And I will quote what it says on the websites are not demented, they were probably also verified before it was published, because we have a pear service in the government and says: "After today's meeting, Prime Minister Borut Pahor said that with his Italian colleague Silvio Berlusconi, on the issue of Italian gas terminals they are preparing solutions to the mutual benefit of both countries. Slovenia is mainly opposed to the terminal at sea and Italy, on the other hand, to the third pier in Cyprus and the second block in the nuclear power plant." This means that we do not oppose Zavajam, which is inconsistent with the resolution we adopted at the end of last year. "They are with Berlusconi according to his words," said the Prime Minister; "talking about how to solve the complication which is in sight. This is the fact that Slovenia's lawsuit for terminals is intensively prepared, especially due to the terminal at sea." So Zavlje is not even relevant anymore, said our prime minister. As he explained, the gas terminal at sea is unacceptable for Slovenia; "in Žavaje we expect one that will meet environmental protection criteria." Now, let's ask ourselves, we have adopted a resolution in the National Assembly that speaks the opposite. Our Prime Minister, however, says that the Zavjavih terminal will be one that will meet the environmental and security criteria. Now - whether we need to amend the resolution already adopted by this National Assembly, which we have unanimously adopted, except with the exception of colleague Pecanova, or whether it is a document that does not bind anyone. Today, we are under the question of credibility, as is the case in this country - whether what is accepted or not in force in the National Assembly is valid. On the other hand, it says: "Well, Italy also opposes the extension of the port of Cyprus to the third pier for environmental protection reasons. At the same time, they were informed that the Slovenian authorities would not be able to take a decision on the second block of the nuclear power plant without their permission.", explained our Prime Minister Pahor. So this is really a tied trade about it, we've been talking about it all the time today and it's becoming increasingly clear that it's not exactly from the vine that things are very, very connected. We are likely to come up with a project that is being discussed at interstate level outside this National Assembly, we are probably talking about some gas pipeline and some other matter. He goes on to say: "Pahor and Berlusconi are preparing a solution to this complication, although, as the Prime Minister has pointed out, there is little room for diplomacy in this case because legal standards need to be adhered to." This is very nice to hear, but the legal norm is also our resolutions, unfortunately, and the conclusions of the National Assembly, which have been adopted and applied, have been voted unanimously. "No matter what, they will be when they are ready and if the solution is ready"; now we are in what I have previously warned - whether the document "if" or "when" is true, and it is repeated here; "it is also informed of this also by Pahor, who has been informed of this, and thus responded to the opposition's findings that the competent environmental minister, Dr. Roko Žarnic, has not been informed of the whole matter. I think the fact that we're trying to find a solution with Berlusconi suggests that we want things to be arranged for mutual benefit." If it's not a mistrust to our minister, then I don't know what it is. So someone's talking about solving environmental issues without a government minister. I don't know how you guys look at government or coalition. It is also interesting to hear the Commissioner's statement on European affairs. The title says, "The directive itself does not prohibit the approval of terminals." And he goes on to say: "The Commissioner for Environment, Janez Potočnik, has ensured that the European Commission will undoubtedly ensure that the issue of gas terminals is resolved in accordance with the rules. He pointed out that it is important and right that Slovenia carefully analyses the issues and knows exactly what it wants, what it wants and what it can achieve. Very interesting. It is said that not what is enshrined in the directive and the convention, but what it wants and what it wants to achieve. According to Potočnik, it requires countries to ensure that larger projects cannot be approved without assessing their environmental effects and that in the case of cross-border projects, consultation with affected countries is needed. I quote: "This directive does not prohibit the approval of the project in itself if such effects are." So, no matter how much we figure out what we already are, the effects are, it doesn't prohibit the construction of this facility. In short, it is procedural in nature, says the European Commissioner. He pointed out that it was theoretically impossible to comply with this Directive before granting an usable permit for such an object. According to his theory, the object is constructed and then detected or violated legislation or whether it has an impact on the environment. It says here on papers that have been on the website since the fifth hour or since the sixth hour. And this, at least for me, is very problematic and confirms what we have warned that the National Assembly in this case is merely an escort and that its conclusions are irrelevant. Here he also says: "The European Commission must, on an official basis, decide whether or not the infringement procedures for European regulations have been followed if the projects were approved by final authorisation, and whether NGOs or Slovenia would prove infringements." This is totally independent of the lawsuit and so on. Let's read it. But this is in some way very problematic for you on the coalition side, because obviously things are going forward, as we have been warning all day long, and obviously neither the conclusions of the National Assembly nor the conclusions adopted on the Committee on Environment and Space, nor the resolution adopted not half a year ago in the same composition. It was also said earlier that the Italian side does not provide material on other committees, on the foreign policy committee and on other committees. Earlier, Commissioner Potočnik was quoted in the case when he, together with our Minister, commented on the construction of terminals in April. At that time he said well, I will quote him, "As he said, it is only possible to come to solutions acceptable to both sides by talking." And further on that the meeting was not organised, we have all talked about it, and you have also found it, but he warned that the procedures concerning gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets, the gas terminal in Žavaje offshore terminal and pipeline are still in progress." This was stated on 24 March, despite the fact that we already had all the information and conclusions of the Italian parties in June 2009, that they were no longer talking, that their case was closed and so on. But the European Commissioner says: this is still in progress. It says that, according to the European Commission, in this context, the obligations arising from the cross-border impact assessment directive and those procedures are properly monitored. However, when we read the statements that are now on the websites, it is obvious that it is necessary to assess this and that, on the basis of these assessments and directives, it is necessary to decide and adopt certain conclusions no longer the spirit, not the hearing, but we are talking about what the installation of the terminal means for the visa of the agreement that Italy will not be subject to the nuclear power plant. This is clearly written on 24 hours and the STA. And clearly, the Prime Minister of the Government has confirmed that he still has a problem with offshore, and this one is likely to be removed by some purchases. However, the terminal in Žavaje is only a technology problem, not whether it is appropriate to place it in space at all, given that we have adopted certain conclusions in the National Assembly. I think that we need to ask ourselves about this, and I believe that you will support our or the Committee's conclusions, where I also propose that the first point be supplemented by the fact that the National Assembly has become aware of the information, unilaterally that the Republic of Italy has taken a unilateral decision on the construction of the gas terminal, because we will, at least as the National Assembly, remain at the point where we do not participate in such unilateral decisions. And I also propose that you support the amendments that have yet to be submitted further to the individual Article to point 2 that we have identified, and this was the conclusion of all those who discussed that in 2009 and 2010 the Government did not properly inform the National Assembly, in accordance with the conclusions adopted, both the 18th Extraordinary Meeting, which was held in 2006, and not in accordance with the resolution adopted at the end of 2009. I hope you support this amendment. The amendment to the 3rd point, where we are talking about adding a new paragraph, "The National Assembly, in accordance with the resolution on the Adriatic Strategy, calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to report in writing to the National Assembly on arrangements and responses regarding the placement of large facilities in the Gulf of Markets." I hope you will also support this, because the debate has shown that you, too, are in some way, I will not say disappointed, but you have doubts that the Government does not inform us of such important matters, despite the fact that the conclusions are more than clear. The fourth amendment, too, is said to be an additional 4th point, there will probably be more debate, but in view of the debate that you have had in the coalition, that you are also interested in what was in the agreement between President Berlusconi and President Borut Pahor, I believe that this amendment will also be supported, although we already have some information on the websites. However, I expect that, as Members, we are still worthy of the Government's attention on the matters that we have concluded in the past in the National Assembly and have adopted conclusions that the Government is reporting on such important matters to us, yet it is of such value that we also have an official explanation. But not to read on websites to discuss what we will get in return for landing on terminals, how we will build a nuclear power plant, only if someone allows us, and similar things. I hope that you too have the opinion that in this case the Government has overtaken us, that it does not respect the decisions taken in the National Assembly, that it does not respect the resolution which is binding on all of us, even on us. And I expect you to support the conclusions with these additional amendments and that when you read this article on the website, even within the coalition, you will ask yourself a little bit about how we operate, whether it is necessary for us to sit in the National Assembly and decide on some matters, whether it is necessary for us to have a government or whether it would be better for us to have only a president, and we do not need ministers if someone in such important decisions ignores them. While some smile, the matter seems rather serious, both for the National Assembly and for the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u134	Thank you very much. We have concluded the general debate on the proposal for a decision. The proposed decision is accompanied by three amendments, points 2, 3 and 4. I am putting a decision and an amendment by the SDS Group to point 2 into the debate. Does anyone want to discuss this amendment? Only those whose parliamentary groups still have the floor can debate. The SDS delegation has spent its time and therefore it is not possible to discuss it. Anybody else want to discuss it? I find that he does not want to, so I am concluding the debate on the amendment proposal to point 2. I am putting to the debate a decision and an amendment by the SDS Group to point 3. Anybody want to talk? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting the amendment of the SDS Group to point 4 into the debate. Anybody want to talk? Franco Yuri called. I think you've got another minute or two. We're discussing point four.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u135	I'll be very brief, don't worry. We are now discussing the amendment to point 4. I just wish to inform the proposers that they would support this amendment if there were no other paragraph. I still do not think that our Parliament is competent to call the Commissioner. This would in fact be a precedent when it is responsible for the invitation of the Prime Minister. So I absolutely agree with the first part of this amendment. And now if we were ready to reshape it in such a way as to rule out the second paragraph, I and probably someone else would support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u136	Thank you very much. You still have a chance as a proponent. Even so, please, Mr. Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u137	Thank you for your support. I think it's important that we get official information on this conversation. As for this second part, I think I have explained in the debate earlier that it is not a matter of pressure on the European Commissioner in which the matter must be resolved. It's about warning him to get more involved. I believe that none of you Members would have any doubts to draw the attention of any European Commissioner from a third country to the fact that he is more active in some situation. But now that we have our Commissioner, we are all in some way moving around and talking about not being able to warn him that he is more actively involved in some matter. It's a hoax. I don't think any of you would have any concern if you were sitting in this position right now, one from Austria, to warn him that he should be more actively involved. We do not prescribe that a solution must be found or that a solution must be found in our behalf. We're talking about getting more involved. So I suggest you support this amendment anyway, because it doesn't prejudge anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u138	Thank you. I take it that the second paragraph of this amendment to point 4 has not been withdrawn to remain as it is. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. That is why I am concluding the debate also Mr Jerovšek, you cannot propose anything, because you no longer have the time, you have no time available, you can no longer report. [[...]] The debate is closed and new proposals are no longer possible. Let's stick to the rules of the game that are in this National Assembly and we have concluded the debate on amendments to paragraphs 2, 3 and 4. And we're moving on to decision-making. We are moving on to a decision on the SDS amendment to the second point of the proposal for a decision. We're voting. A voice explanation, of course. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Mr Jerovšek? Members' groups first. Does one of the parliamentary groups want to explain their vote in the vote to the amendment to point 2? Yes, the SDS Emissary Group, Daniel Krivec. Mr. Guilty, just a moment. Procedural, Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm wondering now what's with point one. Aren't we going to figure it out?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u140	We will first vote on the three amendments, by 2, 3, 4 and then we will vote on the proposal for a decision in full.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u141	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u142	Thank you. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Daniel Krivec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u143	Thanks again. I won't be long. But still, given what you said in the debate this afternoon, I expect you to support this amendment. It is also a matter of pride that you have adopted conclusions in this composition that support this amendment, and you have all found that in this National Assembly we are deprived of information that touches on these topics. That is why I expect you to support this amendment, and all of you will find that the government does not inform us in this case as was the conclusion of this National Assembly. I hope that you will not, in any way, step on your own and deny your conclusions, because this would be a little strange and your discussions that you had during this day would in some way be very empty if you did not support what you all have found, including Mr Anderlič, in the end, that he must help himself with the newspaper articles, although he is a member of quite some committees, asking him to get the material that would allow him to make the relevant decisions, but he does not get the material so that this decision is to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to explain the voice? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. Explanation of the voice in his name, Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u145	Your Honor! I will, of course, support this decision. Today, we have repeatedly convinced ourselves that the Government is not doing its job, that it is defaming this National Assembly and that what I have heard in the reports now is proof that Mr Pahor has humiliated and discredited his own country because he has not informed his ministers and did not want to inform the National Assembly of the talks, even though it is imposed on him by the conclusions of the National Assembly. This is the reason why the Presidents of the Government in other countries where democracy is practised are to step down in such behaviour. And Mr. Pahor has afforded something that should not have happened. Yesterday we looked at the televisions at the Odessa, when the department minister had no idea, but the humiliation of the minister, if allowed in the government, is ugly for the state. That's what the world saw. That's what the Italians are going to make fun of. But to humiliate the entire National Assembly, to humiliate the whole country and discredit it in front of the international public, we can't care. And those who laugh at this matter are inconvenient [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u146	Mr Jerovšek, there is no controversy in the explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u147	It is therefore necessary to propose an additional decision that the President of the Government should come to apologize. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u148	No conclusions may be proposed during the course of the vote. Explanation of voice. I request an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] Explanation of Joža Tanko's voice. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u149	Thank you so much for saying that. Here we had immediately after presenting the views of the members of the groups a statement by the Minister, who said that President Pahor had not spoken to Mr Berlusconi in those brief moments absolutely nothing important, except, I don't know, he could exchange three polite words. On the website 24ur.com and other STAs, we read that the President of the Government has been negotiating strategic issues regarding the placement of facilities, important facilities in the Gulf of Markets. Therefore, it is clear from this that this is the discrimination of statements between the Minister of State, who is explicitly responsible for the environment and the matters we are discussing today, and the President of the Government, who is negotiating past the Minister, passes the profession, makes decisions and promises over everything and beyond the National Assembly. This violates many things both within the meaning of the legislation, the Rules of Procedure and so on, and therefore this addition to the decision proposed in point 2 is only a determination of events, real events in the National Assembly and what has happened a day or two ago and is being published by electronic media today. I think that what is written here only to be attached and this has been happening practically since the beginning of this government's mandate in this area, we have not received completely any information on the developments concerning gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets since 30 October 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u150	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 38. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the amendment to point 2 of the proposal for a decision has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to the third point of the proposal for a decision. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Daniel Krivec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u151	At the outset, I will support this amendment and, of course, also ask your colleagues and colleagues to support this amendment, because I will appeal again to your conscience, because you have adopted this resolution with us. It clearly states in point 8 that the Government must report on these and measures, conclusions, negotiations and so on. We are proposing nothing else with this amendment, only to comply with what we have adopted in this National Assembly on 17 December 2009. It is not the previous Government, it is not the previous Parliament, but you who are sitting here and it is written in this resolution, that on the basis of this we are still calling on the Government to keep us informed, nothing has been written that we must have us tomorrow or in 14 days, but on the contrary, it will be assessed by itself, but we will obviously see when, but at least let us write this down, because otherwise it is really questionable why we are sitting in the National Assembly and adopting resolutions and obligations for the functioning of both the state and the ministries, as we ourselves have in some projects and in some arrangements. I think it's only about the Gulf of Markets, it's not general, it's about the resolution. Given that we have accepted this, it would be wise to support this amendment and that we are informed at least in advance if we cannot influence any decisions already.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the LDS Group, Anton Anderlič, then indeed, but earlier announced Franco Juri and Kontič SD.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u153	This proposal for a decision or amendment on a proposal for a decision seems completely well-intentioned and does not make sense to reject it, but it is true that it in itself means tautology, because if, after the resolution, this obligation of the Government, it must do so without [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u154	These are higher forces. We're not responsible for them. Go ahead, Mr. Anderlich, it's not about your speech.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u155	I hope not, because it's ringing to someone else. As it is said, I understand that the Government must report it again, regardless of whether we commit it or not, because this resolution speaks. We have too many times, even in this term we have already passed a law that one mayor must respect the law on local self-government or what it is already called because he refused to let two councillors into the municipal council. And even after we passed another marriage, he didn't do it on time at the time when it was allowed. [[?]] . But I, in my own words, see that the proposal is well-intentioned and I will contribute to it. I hope that colleagues will also understand that it is up to us all to do everything for the good of the country and that those people who do it are responsible and are going to be trusted. In this regard, it is reasonable to support this and to report on what they are doing. Although, if you were also thinking here that the Prime Minister of the Government should report on the talks he had in the mosque under that tent with Mr Berlusconi, he probably couldn't have been an agreement. So that there won't be any disappointments again, you need to know. Because if it's a deal, it means that it has some form, some form, and somehow something must be behind this deal. But if it's a conversation that they're going to talk about and they're going to look for solutions, I don't think that's true. But, as it is said, I will support myself, as well as Members of the Liberal Democracy Club, because we believe it is right to be informed of all activities, but of course of activities that have some form, some degree of achievement of importance, not of all the things that I believe are actually happening daily, some, especially those that are directly working on the project, are also doing so. There's probably a lot of these activities. Therefore, it is also necessary to continue to know that there is a need to report, and this is also dictated by the resolution, but probably not just any discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SD Group of Members, Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Even without this amendment text, we would be informed of what this amendment requires, as something has already been said in the resolution on the Adriatic Strategy to which the amendment's motions refer. [[Lord Jerovšek, turn off, please, and do not disturb when someone speaks.]] Despite the fact that the text contains "opportunity information", which we will certainly explain in our own way, when it is opposite, and despite the fact that it is written "written", because it is likely that it will be possible to report orally on this subject at any time on the competent parent working body, we will, also because of the proposaler, and this is the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, think that this is the most important amendment to the conclusions adopted by the Committee, support this amendment, which will thus become an integral part of the conclusions that I hope the National Assembly will at least take. Therefore, the Group of Social Democrats will support the amendment to the updated proposal for a decision on the third item.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Zares Group, Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. The Zares Group or the present parliamentary group will support this amendment. We will support it because we too want to prove that, despite the fact that we have found, that we are repeating something that should be self-evident, we confirm the validity and applicability of the resolution we have adopted, and we commit the Government to timely communication. We don't lose anything, but we do report something to the government. Even in view of what is happening here with the President of the Government who is speaking legitimately with his European colleagues, it would be good, I repeat, as we said in the introductory statement, that we have been informed of such important things by contrast. So we'll support this amendment without any problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the DeSUS Group, Joško Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u161	In the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners, we will not take half an hour off to decide on this, but we have already decided and we will fully support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u162	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment to point 3 of the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to point 4 of the proposal for a decision. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u163	Thank you for your support for the previous amendment. I think he'll be useful. Once again, I also propose that this amendment be supported. In the debates, you all noted that you would also like to know what was agreed on at these meetings. As we have already seen, there is a lot of writing in the media, and here he also feels regret that the Prime Minister trusts his own minister, who, in the information we have been able to hear from him, replied that there was nothing important to talk about at this meeting, and we are finally reading that they were also talking about a nuclear power plant, that they were discussing the placement of gas terminals, is precisely what was being discussed today in this National Assembly. If this is not a little problematic for you to trust within the government the minister who covers this area and to get essentially less information than the media gets, then this is really problematic. I therefore propose that you support this amendment, which speaks of the government's response to this interview in Libya between the two prime ministers and, of course, that you also support the part which gives the initiative to involve the European Commissioner more actively. I'm not going to explain again why this would be right on your part. I think once again that in this case we are not giving any guidance as to how the Commissioner should act, but merely an initiative to involve him in some way more actively in this matter. I suggest you support this amendment with an additional point 4.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS Group of Ambassadors, Jakob Presectnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u165	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. So, before we vote on the suspension of the meeting, the Prime Minister comes to report on what is new in this area and in the areas involved. So we have voted in favour of this decision before, despite not being aware of what is in fact, what the Prime Minister could actually tell us in this National Assembly. I think that when we, at least I went to look at the evening diary on our television, which was literally published what my colleague Krivec had previously read, even of course written from the media, and we were not, I have to say that there is nothing more clear that the Prime Minister has explained the matter at the press conference. So this is a matter that is not only related to terminals but also linked to a nuclear power plant, and I do not know which projects to do so, so that is why it is absolutely necessary for us to take this decision, and that the Prime Minister also reports to the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Zares Group, Franco Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u167	I am sorry, or the Group of Members, for it is indeed regrettable that the amendment to this amendment has not been taken into account because we cannot support such an amendment. We cannot support, in particular, because we would do ourselves a bear service through intervention, even though an indirect instruction to the Commissioner of the European Commission would in fact put him in a difficult position. It would be seen that there are also routes from his country, and this would have already discredited him or at least put him in an awkward position where he should prove his neutrality. And of course that would not be good for what we expect of the Commissioner. I think that this National Assembly can impose, demand, transfer something to its own government and also to the President of the Slovenian Government. However, it is difficult to communicate similar messages to the Commission or to the Commissioners, and since the possibility of addressing other Commissioners was mentioned earlier, we have never done so. And if it were, it would be significantly easier to address this to the Commissioner from another country than to the Commissioner of his own country. And that's because of the reason I mentioned earlier. Because we'd also do ourselves a bear favor and damage. Therefore, unfortunately, we cannot support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u168	Thank you very much. In your own name? Please apply for an explanation in your own name. Explanation of Janja Klasinc's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u169	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course I won't support this amendment. But I want to tell you why. Because here we are interfering with the area of competence of the European Parliament and of the European Commission. This is totally unacceptable. I'd like to add something to everything my colleague Yuri said before me. Each Commissioner, when he comes before the European Parliament and swears on how he will act, must also read part of the oath in which he reminds the Member States of the European Union not to influence him to follow their instructions, especially the Member State from which he comes. This is part of an oath he must keep. It is therefore illegal in European practice, as you propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice, Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u171	I'd like you to just read the amendment. We do not refer the amendment to the European Union, not directly to the Commissioner, but to our government. I don't know why you're mixing this up. I will read it: The National Assembly, this is us, I hope, because obviously no one is taking us seriously, the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, our government, not Europe, to participate more actively in the resolution process of the European Commissioner for the Environment. Now tell me what's out there. I don't know. That our government to eat some initiative is legitimate. I hope you understand that we are not crossing any of the legal frameworks that we have. We are not direct to the Commissioner and we are not direct to the European Commission, but we are imposing or recommending that our government include him more actively. Whether or not she'll be more actively involved or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his name, Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support this decision. For he is indispensable in all that has happened today, and in all this ignorance, neither the ministers nor the National Assembly. If we do not, ladies and gentlemen, then for the new year we will receive a message from the cabinet of the Prime Minister that a one-time deal with Italy has been concluded at the Safari in Sahara, which will make Slovenia happy. Article 3 will say that, in accordance with international law, Italy will send to the Slovenian side all impurities and derivatives of gas refineries, namely aromas that smell and cause sweet death. At the beginning of the year, however, we can expect Mr Gantar to apologize to Italy for having dared to discuss a project that will have a pervasive negative impact on the situation of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Thank you for mentioning my humble name in your performance. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u175	However, something would have to be said about this, that is, it is not worthy of the National Assembly, that we handily accept some amendments. And if you read carefully and precisely because I carefully read the amendment to point 3 and I also supported it, the explanation on the other hand was written precisely in the spirit of the amendment to point 3, where it says, we are proposing that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia should be informed of all the circumstances and so on about all the discussions. But what did we take in point three of the second? And if you say in the first part that the National Assembly calls on the Government to report on this particular matter, because we have already accepted that it must report everything. What's so special about that? Truth be told, I don't know what the laws say, I know what the oath says there before the European Parliament. But if you read the second part of this proposal of the decision, it says that the Government should include it. Yes, how should the Government include the European Commissioner, who has sworn in the European Parliament at another level and now we will include him. What do we hire as a consultant? We're gonna force him to be, I don't know, we can't turn him on. We're not in a position to turn it on because it works on another level. Read it again. What did you write down? If we could write it down differently, he might be asked to do something else and so on, but the government can't include him. That is why, of course, this amendment to this point is absolutely not acceptable, especially because we have also supported the amendment to point 3 we have also resolved this, which is what you want here, if the explanation is correct on the back.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Franci Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. I will not support this amendment, because this will make it much easier for the European Commissioner to act, rather than for some Italians to come to Barross with paper, where it would be said that the European Commissioner must act in accordance with the instructions of the National Assembly or the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of France Tsukati. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u179	Thank you for your word. I don't like to talk about my voice, but there are so many strange opinions here that I still have to say why I support this amendment. That is, I believe that our government should, without regard to the nationality of the Commissioner and by its request, also support the European level in solving truly ecological issues, regardless of which nationality it is. And it really bothers me that the fear of this involvement and the call on the European Union to involve itself in solving this problem is the fear that it is, by chance, our citizen. I never said that a party or an emissary should really not communicate with Gantar. That would be weird. This would be strange, I think that this function should be understood but less volatile and more autonomously and precisely because of this, and because of this debate I believe that this amendment is still necessary. I'm afraid the government is thinking that, too, Pahor is thinking that he will inform a foreign official of the European Union, but not ours, because I'm afraid I don't know what he's talking about. However, we are an equal country here and certainly other countries, also the Italians are communicating with the European Union and with the relevant secretaries. I think this amendment is one of the most normal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Since it's still an interest, I'd like to ask you to apply. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Janko Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u181	Thank you. This amendment is primarily unnecessary. Part of the explanation was already given because we decided that the Government would inform us of all the discussions and procedures. However, we have been discussing the European Commissioner for six hours now that the National Assembly has taken note of the plan of action and measures initiated by the Government to safeguard Slovenia's interests with the European Commission. We've been talking about this for six hours. And the government has provided material showing what and how we will familiarise the European Commission with Slovenia's position. And at the moment when we hand this material over to the Commission, Mr Potočnik is automatically involved in this debate. That is why this amendment is totally unnecessary, because we already have it all taken up in point 3 of the decision, which we have not yet adopted, but I believe we will. But we are discussing for six hours this material to the European Commission. And it is now an additional decision to invite the Commissioner in particular. Please. Since we have found that we are putting this material up, and at that point the Commissioner is involved, this amendment is unnecessary and does not need to be invested and even less supported. I won't support him because he's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I apologize, I have forgotten to warn you that when you explain your voice, you should not dispute with each other, but simply say why you intend to vote as you vote. Please take this into account. Voice explanation, Marijan Pojbič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u183	The Honorable President. It seems important to me once again to read this second part of this amendment. It is very clear: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia - and where does the National Assembly impose anything here?Oh, my God! Please, but can you read, can you read?Oh, my God! Please. That's enough. Then you don't have to read anymore because this first part is the key. Mr. Anderlich, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u184	Please, Mr. Pojbich, Mr. Anderlich, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u185	If he dares me. [[...]] [[A laugh in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u186	Please let me say it in peace [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u187	Mr. Anderlich [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u188	That's what I'm thinking. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u189	Please don't push. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u190	Well, look. It is unbelievable and unreasonable and incomprehensible that we have our own people in Brussels, we have our own Members of the European Union, we have our Commissioner there and so on, and we can't in any way think the way that the coalition thinks, we can't turn even to the European Members. Yes, why in God's name are the MEPs in the European Parliament?Oh, my God! Me, for God's sake?Oh, my God! Tell me! Is it because the Slovenian people have too much money and are paying for elections to be elected to the European Parliament?Oh, my God! Are they therefore there to some extent trying to lobby for the interests of the Republic of Slovenia, i.e. for one nation from which they were elected? Is it or isn't it?Oh, my God! This was a key objective and an interest. I'm sure it is. All those who think that all that we want to do in this Slovenia is also the opposition or the Slovenian Democratic Party to try to protect the interests of the Republic of Slovenia when it comes to the arbitration agreement when we called [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] all in this Slovenian, i.e. all Slovenian, i.e. policy experts to help create an appropriate [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u191	That's it. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Miran Potch. Please. Procedural, Mr. Kek, but procedurally, if you don't stop quickly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u192	I will. I stop fast, always. I'd like to propose to my colleague Pojbich who spoke of [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]] A laugh in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u193	Explanation of voice, Miran Potch, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I will not support the proposal, the proposal assumes that only the coalition Members want the good of this Slovenia, and they know that all the possibilities for achieving these objectives must be included. I will not support it because it is harmful because it publicly exposes methods of work that can harm but not benefit from it, and I will not support it because I believe that the Commissioner and the Government know that they must cooperate in order to achieve common goals and that it does not have to be commanded by the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable. So, of course, I will support this amendment, because I think that the National Assembly can propose to the Government to include the European Transport Commissioner, who happens to be Slovenian, in solving this problem. For the environment. For the first time, because no Commissioner is a holy cow regardless of nationality, the National Assembly or Parliament of any State could not ask him to be involved in solving this problem. That's why the Commissioners are there, and that's why there are MEPs in the European Parliament, because, by this logic, I don't know, I don't know how on some of our committees we can invite MEPs to the meetings, for God's sake, because they're untouchable. How can we invite them? Then we invite them. Those you invite, think about what you are now voting on, and if you have the right to invite them to the meetings of the committees and commissions. And, of course, I will vote in favour because I believe that Slovenia can include its Commissioner just as Italy can in the case of vineyards and their Commissioner. Now, if the Italian government did not invite him, then their Commissioner felt himself obliged and responsible. However, since ours obviously does not feel obliged and responsible, it is necessary for the Government to invite him, of course, in the appropriate way that it is necessary, and I will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Breda Pecan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u198	I'd read the fine print, maybe some of us need better glasses to read, given that I can read shortsighted even without glasses. On the first page of the Government's works it is written that part of the delay is also in the European Commission's additional engagement with Italy and Slovenia to resolve the problem of the installation of gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets on a peaceful path without a lawsuit. For this purpose, the European Commission has already organised an informal technical meeting between Italy, Slovenia and the Commission on 26 January this year. The second technical meeting was scheduled for 3 May 2010, but due to technical difficulties, I have already said this because the President of the Commission, who had to go to Greece because of the problems he had there, was put on the Commission's side for an indefinite period. This means that Commissioner Potočnik has engaged in this matter that he does not need any encouragement from our Government, but at least from the SDS. And that is why I will vote against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u199	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice? I'm asking you to sign up. Voice explanation, mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u200	Thank you very much, President, for your word. I don't support the amendment because it doesn't make sense and it doesn't make sense. We know what we can and cannot order to the European Commissioner, and now what we cannot and we know is not allowed to propose to someone else to do so. It's about as much as if we ourselves know we can't steal, but let's get some kid to order it on our behalf. Otherwise, I would agree with this logic, but I suggest that you propose to the Group of the European People's Party, in which you have a majority to adopt a European law that will settle this matter overnight.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Proposals are no longer allowed. An explanation of the voice on your behalf, Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment for three reasons. We have recorded that the European Commissioner is more actively involved and we have heard and read that so far the European Commissioner has been part of the delay and not part of the speed of solving the problem. Another time. The government has easily included the European Commissioner in support of the arbitration agreement and has had no abstention. And for the third time, I will support the amendment because, in fact, we are all part of this silent diplomacy. With this diplomacy we have lost at least 20% of the Bay of Piran, secondly, on the basis of quiet diplomacy, interventions at the western border are taking place, which will significantly change the airworthiness and navigation corridors in the Gulf of Trža and the port of Cyprus, as it interferes with the area of navigation. And thirdly, because it is unacceptable for the President of the Government to be solistically regulating matters in the Clinical Centre, Dars, Slovenian Railways and elsewhere. Wherever he comes, he's drawing synergistic curves that he has no idea about. We have to make a decision to commit the government to report to the National Assembly at all. However, if the President of the Government continues his activities in this way through Slovenian institutions, it would be appropriate, in terms of saving, to abolish both directors and supervisory councils in these institutions, to which the President of the Government is going down, and this would be a good contribution to saving. I'll back you up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u203	Thank you very much. We vote on the amendment to point 4 of the proposal for a decision. There are 60 Members and Members present, 20 votes against 39. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the amendment to point 4 has not been adopted. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision in its entirety, including the adoption of an amendment. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the decision due to the amendment adopted would be inadequate. We're voting. An explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Jože Tanko or Mr Jerovšek? Jože Tanko, please explain the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u204	Dear colleagues! Given that the important amendments that we have proposed to the conclusions have not been adopted, in particular the amendments which in some way oblige the Government to respond adequately and report on all agreements that take place on the basis of silent diplomacy to the National Assembly, and also because we are ashamed of our European Commissioner, we will not support the draft proposals of these impoverished decisions that you have written and which, among other things, do not reflect the actual situation of the reports prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are of the opinion that in the National Assembly, regardless of who it is, such decisions must be made that correspond to the actual state of affairs. Here, it is more than clear from the Government's report that the Government did not properly report on all developments relating to gas terminals in the Gulf of Markets after 30 October 2008. We have said that with each announcement, with each notification we received from the Italian government, the reaction of the reserial minister was milder, lighter and more so on. Let us now learn from the media that the President of the Government passes through the government as an institution, as an authority, past the Minister of State, past the National Assembly and contrary to the conclusions of the National Assembly, talks with Berlusconi about how matters will be resolved in the Gulf of Markets, and on key important topics. The National Assembly has already adopted certain binding documents in this mandate, not only in the previous one, including with regard to regulating relations with Croatia, including with regard to regulating the situation in the Adriatic Sea, but obviously no decision we have adopted for the President of the Government is sufficient to be binding on him to respect him in his work. This is even more sad because the current Prime Minister of the Government was sometimes the president of the National Assembly. At that time, he must have had a relationship with an institution that was presided over differently or somewhat differently. Nor will we support it because we do not know and do not want to take advantage of our potentials that have been given to us by membership in the European Union. We do not want the services of our European Commissioner, who, even the Commissioner in this area, and obviously the European Commissioner, has not done his job, nor would the Ministry record and record that part of the delay has also been caused by the work of the European Commissioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Any other group of people who want to explain their voices? On behalf of the Zares Group, Franci Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. We'll support the conclusions. Also because an amendment has been adopted obliging the government to report to the National Assembly, because the Prime Minister has no power or opportunity to agree on anything contrary to the conclusions of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u207	Thank you very much. In his own name, Mr Jerovšek. I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of voice. No, no, no. Joseph Jerovšek in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u208	Thank you very much. If this decision were to be divided into three conclusions as it should be, of course part could be supported. However, since you have rejected the necessary final decision, of course, these wholes and these mixtures, which probably excuses you from apologizing to Italy, I cannot support them. I cannot really support him because I cannot, as Mr Erjavec, trust the Prime Minister. He was supposed to say that he believed him, even though when he was dropping him off, he had long refused to believe that he was going to abandon him. And yet, no matter what we accept, we need to clarify whether it was because of what we heard last year that Italy rejected all the Slovenian demands that it had already decided and perhaps it was Erjavac's fault that we were silenced. Maybe Mr. Erjavec was doing something at the time, and that's why he's doing it now. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] trusted Mr. Pahori. [[...]] There is a lot to be cleared up by then, just not when you make a mixture that makes no difference and I will not vote because it leads us further into the swamps, because you did not want to accept it, and such a country that does not report to its minister and not to Parliament is an easy prey on the interests of other countries. To such a country, the international community for such a country knows what it is sinking into bankruptcy and a worrying future, and that is exactly what is happening with Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-16-SDZ5-Izredna-25.ana.u209	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 10. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item and also conclude the 25th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you so much. Good night.
