ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 27th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Marijan Pojbič, Janez Janša, Villa Rezman, Rado Likar, Dr. Peter Verlič, mag. Stefan Tiselli, Roberto Battelli, Franz Jurša, Franz Pukšič, Guido Kres, Marjan Bezjak and Dr Vinko Gorenak from 13.30 p.m. I invited the President of the Government of Borut Pahor to the meeting, a candidate for Minister of Economy of Mags. Darjo Radic and other government representatives. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 27th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 14 July 2010. I have not received any proposals for amending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 27th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item – Defences the proposal of the candidate for the Ministry of Economy. On 12 July 2010, the President of the Government, Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that he be appointed Minister of Economy. Darjo Radic. I give the floor to the President of the Government to further explain the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u2	Good morning! Mr President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to express, on my behalf and on behalf of my colleagues and colleagues, the satisfaction, including the gratitude of this high house, that it has so quickly processed its decision on the candidate for the new Minister of Economy. As you know, recently this situation has left Dr. Matej Lahovnik, and the Government has asked a question, particularly to me, as the one who does her job, whom I should put in this position. In this situation – this is taught by my own experience from a year and a half – I need a co-worker who is practical, who has some comprehensive insight into the tasks and work of the ministry, who also has a vision of an area for which he is responsible, who has a good social network both in his own ministry and in the entire administration of the government, and in particular has a good opinion or a strong opinion on the economy's work. Mag. Darja Radic meets such expectations. Therefore, I ask you to support it today, when you vote on its suitability for election to this position. If she also receives any voice of support from the opposition, it will only be an additional incentive to carry out her work so much more devoted. At the end of the day, let me point out what our agreement was about her future tasks. The most difficult thing is to meet the expectations and objectives of the Government that we have set ourselves until the end of the mandate, and this is indicators of the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy to raise above average. I think that, this is now the philosophy of running the country in times of crisis, we have made the right decision. In the first year of the sharp fall in GDP and in the face of a financial crisis, which at the same time meant a deep economic and social crisis, we decided to help people. That is why we have spent 44% more money from the state budget for leaving none of the social groups behind. This is why Slovenia was able to observe and see social cramps in 2009. But neither of the social groups has been forgotten or in a situation where it is completely without a social perspective. This has enabled social cohesion and the minimum confidence of citizens and citizens in the country and in the institutions of the system, which have allowed us to start with other measures that will, in the short term and in particular, increase the stability of our economic and social system in the long term. We know that we cannot spend more on social cohesion than we create. It's a mag job. Darje Radic is to set the conditions, together with his colleagues, for us to master enough to keep Slovenia a social state. It will therefore focus its tasks on three main areas: strengthening the export part of the Slovenian economy in particular. Here let me stress that in addition to the well-known exporters we must, and I consider this a privilege, see in particular the small and medium-sized players in the global economy market who have successfully penetrated the world from Slovenia. And their competitiveness is not based solely on the low cost of work. Secondly, our task is to create an environment that will encourage businesses to invest in innovation. And thirdly, the job of Darje or the new minister, if you decide to do so, is to encourage some transformation of the atmosphere in which we are located so that the winners will be properly stimulated and rewarded in this competition on the market, domestic and foreign. Here I am referring not only to the awards that are an integral part of the market in which they fight, but also in society. Without this speed, Slovenia cannot from the crisis, as can other countries. If we can respect the results of those who succeed, not because they do not play by the rules, but because they play by the rules laid down by this high assembly, then we will create the necessary atmosphere of trust and self-confidence that we can emerge from this crisis in a relatively short time so that we are all in a better position after the crisis than we were before. The crisis is calming down, economic growth will not be as high as it was just before it for a few years. It will be necessary to find out under these conditions. But I think he's got magic. Dara Radic's philosophy of managing the ministry is such that, together with her colleagues and colleagues, she will contribute to bringing together this high choir with practical measures to help the economy, in particular the work that is or could be competitive, in particular to small and medium-sized enterprises, which will certainly bear the brunt of our export orientation in one time zone, we are helping to achieve this. I see it as an integral part of the team, which can be successful, which defends the practical part of the government's actions, as well as structural or long-term measures, because it has a strong political belief in this that it is the only alternative to Slovenia's speed, to take steps that are unpopular and urgent, and is willing to take on its part in this responsibility. If this important decision is taken today by the National Assembly, the Government will be able to carry out its obligations in full during the summer holidays, and I would therefore like to thank this High Council, Mr President, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u3	Thank you very much. In accordance with Rule 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the candidate presented herself to the Committee on the Economy and responded to questions raised by the members of the Committee. You have received the Committee's report. The opinion of the Committee will be presented by Mr Matjaž Han. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! Mag. In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Darja Radic presented yesterday to members and alternate members of the Committee on the Economy, with the first and second paragraphs of Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In its opening presentation, the proposed candidate presented briefly the situation, the problems and the necessary fundamental guidelines for the economic development of Slovenia, and then gave the Ministry of Economy the basic guidelines for the Ministry of Economy's operation during its possible mandate. In addition, she stressed that she would continue to implement the programme presented by Dr. Matey Lahovnik, together with her predecessor, since she was, last but not least, the secretary of state at the Ministry. She presented briefly the situation and forecasts in the international environment and the state and forecasts for Slovenia, as this is a fundamental framework in which the Slovenian economy will operate over the next two years. In view of this framework, as a candidate for a minister, the Ministry of the Economy set out the basic programme guidelines: support for strengthening the development of the activity and competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, promoting the competitiveness of Slovenian tourism in the global market and ensuring a stable, competitive and sustainable energy supply. With regard to the first direction of support for strengthening the development of the activity and competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, she stressed that time after the crisis is best suited for a thorough restructuring of the economy at entrepreneurship level through investments in new investments, the introduction of new technologies and the search for new markets. Its ambition is to develop a comprehensive range of instruments that will support businesses in all stages of their development, including financial instruments, instruments for the operation and upgrading of the business support environment and tools for strengthening knowledge, internationalising the Slovenian economy. Priority activities in 2010 in this area will be: the launch of the financial engineering programme, the internationalisation programme and the promotion of foreign direct investment, the integration of support institutions with a view to enhancing the transparency of development incentives and improving administrative efficiency, improving the business environment, the implementation of directives to create a single internal market and the care to strengthen competition and control the possible understanding of competition on the market. In the area of promoting the competitiveness of Slovenian tourism, she mentioned the preparation of a strategic plan for tourism 2011-2016 and stressed that after an intensive investment cycle its priorities are also effective marketing of Slovenian tourism, quality assurance of tourist offer, training of tourist workers and development of destination management. The partnership with the tourism economy and the active involvement of other sources in the implementation of the tourism policy will lead to a thorough partnership, as the elimination of the main weaknesses of Slovenian tourism is part of the working areas of these two districts. The third basic direction of its operation relates to the field of energy, since the main objective is to ensure stable, competitive and sustainable energy supply. Energy is becoming a key factor in economic development and the preservation of prosperity. However, measures in this area will aim at ensuring as much self-sustainment as possible, building appropriate infrastructure for the supply and distribution of energy, ensuring conditions for the functioning of the electricity and gas market and promoting the use of renewable energy sources and efficient energy use. Of course, it also presented priorities in this area. The members and alternate members of the Committee also presented over 30 very specific issues relating to very different areas. Mag. Darja Radic, the proposed candidate for the Minister of Economy, answered all the questions raised and briefed the members of the Committee very carefully and thoroughly on her views, views and opinions, as well as more concrete proposals for action in the individual areas exposed. However, some questions, particularly in the field of energy, were not fully addressed, as she stressed that she did not know all the areas so well that she could respond more specifically. However, before the decision is taken, each area will also be thoroughly examined. After the presentation, the Committee on the Economy, by nine votes to none, adopted the opinion that the presentation was mags. Darje Radic as a candidate for the Minister of Economy is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr President of the Government, Ministers and Ministers and other members of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia is officially still in recession, according to the latest data. In addition to us, only Greece, Cyprus and Romania are in recession from the countries of the European Union. On the world competitiveness scale, we fell for 20 cities, 52nd place between 58 countries. According to our data, only Bulgaria, Romania, Argentina, Croatia, Ukraine and Venezuela have followed us. It is obvious that the government has done little so far to start the Slovenian economy. Most of the measures were directed towards the so-called social field or to putting out the consequences of the crisis, which is of course commendable. This is where we give the government all the credit. A little less has apparently been done to start up the Slovenian economy. Waiting for the economic climate to improve in neighbouring countries, our biggest economic partners is too passive a policy if we can even call it a policy. We expect a lot from the candidate for Minister – we believe, also from future ministers. This is expected by all Slovenian public, citizens and citizens, employees, economists and so on. Fearing that we have not yet reached the bottom of the crisis and that we can follow the path of Greece, unfortunately this moment is very present and very real. As one of the major problems in the Slovenian People's Party, we see the fact that there is simply no investment. We've just adopted a budget rebalancing. Instead of saving on spending that does not bring added value, we reduce investment. Mostly in the areas of transport, health, defence, science and so on. At the most inappropriate time, in our opinion, we will save by delaying investments in the coming years. Investments are linked to an extremely difficult situation in construction and consequently related activities. If I explain the matter a little bit, I would say that over the past period, the extremely accelerated construction of the highway cross, as well as some other infrastructure and other projects, Slovenian construction companies have responded appropriately and have adjusted technologically as well. In addition to the largest Slovenian construction companies, there were also countless major or smaller subcontractors, craftsmen, independent entrepreneurs and so on, and all the spatial and engineering design professions involved in this rapid pace of construction of Slovenian infrastructure. The motorway cross is more than not built and other major infrastructure investments are currently out of the question. Preparations for the construction of the remaining development axes are lagging far behind. There are also no railway projects. More than private construction of housing and business facilities is completely dead in this situation. In doing so, I must point out that this is not just a delay in the preparation of projects in this mandate, but that too slow preparation has been taking place since before, but I note that preparations have now lost all intensity. We expect the Minister's candidate to provide Slovenia with the necessary infrastructure projects, which will provide opportunities and opportunities for further work and exploiting their human and technological potentials in particular. At the time of this severe economic crisis, it is not necessary to stress that these state infrastructure projects and other projects are not dependent on just a handful of the largest Slovenian construction companies, by the way, with a few ten thousand employees, but indirectly on these projects also depend on dozens and thousands of other jobs. Then there is the problem of payment non-discipline, which directly concerns the operation of purely all companies. Even if a possible solution to the problem is not technically considered by the Ministry of Economy, the consequences of the problem will certainly affect this area. Despite some legislative changes, this area will need to be addressed as soon as possible. The problem has been dragging for too long, and the real solution is not and is not. As one of the first tasks we expect the Minister to address this problem. In view of the situation of reflection on the fixing of the maximum payment period, it is likely that it is not so stiff from the vine. Recently, we are also familiar with such or other intentions of the Government of direct or direct sales, according to our assessment, of Slovenian strategic state property. We are also aware of the organisational changes related to certain strategically important companies in the Republic of Slovenia. Here I am referring to the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank by a strategic partner and the renewed idea of establishing a large logistics holding company. This is certainly a matter for the new Minister of Economy as well. In light of what I have to say yesterday, we're a little concerned about her position. The financial and economic crisis cannot and must not be an alibi for the loss of a majority Slovenian stake in the most important bank, and it must not be an alibi to do some stupidity by setting up some logistical mastodon to make the matter even less transparent than it is now. In line with regional development, this is a word that is in this composition of the Government and we hardly hear it in this mandate, but we feel even less. There is no political will to establish the provinces. No one talks about coherent regional development anyway. Given that the candidate for minister does not come from central Slovenia. We hope that this moment will accompany her in all her decisions. Unevenly developed Slovenia and different regions need different solutions and inputs, both financially and differently. There is also an energy problem, both in the investment and organisational terms, which is certainly among the biggest challenges in the future not only in the field of the economy, but in all the government's departments. We have no doubt about the election of the candidate for Minister Mag. Darje Radic, which is why we want her to succeed in this important function. Otherwise, you are responsible for the appointment and election of the President of the Government and the coalition. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will not object to its election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u8	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished President of the Government, ministers, distinguished representatives of the Government, respected colleagues and colleagues! I will be pleased to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal of the candidate Minister for the Economy of Mags. Darje Radic. In opening, let me say that the DeSUS Group deplores Mr Lahovnik's departure from the position of Minister for the Economy, whose work we view as a success and as a positive contribution to bridging the crisis times, not only the national economy, but also the common European economy. Of course, this does not yet mean that we are concerned about the continuing fate of managing this resort, which is one of the key actors in the recovery of these consequences and the recovery of the economic development that will be given a new name at the middle of this government's mandate. In the DeSUS Group, we regret that because of the haste we have witnessed in this proposal, the candidate did not come to our parliamentary group to present herself to us, because, according to our assessment, Members will thus be given a better opportunity to at least get to know and talk about the Ministry's priorities and visions. On the other hand, we understand that the swift implementation of the procedure for the appointment of a new minister is necessary, as it is one of the most demanding ministries that are in front of us both parliamentary and government holidays, and it would not be good to postpone the decision-making process in the autumn, thus needlessly wasting the time that in today's circumstances requires a continuous continuity of action in the light of the resolution of the crisis. We can't afford it standing in this key area because of the empty ministerial office. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that a decisive person must be at the head of the Ministry, with managerial experience, with a good knowledge of the situation and a clear vision of leadership, who will be able to coordinate work within his department in favour of the Slovenian economy and thus society as a whole. Mrs Darjo Radiceva is distinguished by her experience in direct economic activity in several areas, as well as by her knowledge of public administration resources. Not just in this term. Experience in education for the Slovenian economy has key activities, that is tourism. At this time, in our view, Mrs Darja Radic is the person in the Republic of Slovenia who, as the secretary of state, knows the work and guidance of the future ministry. He knows where the key problems and open questions are, so we expect him to be able to solve them constructively. The expectations of the DeSUS Group regarding the continued management of the Ministry of Economic Affairs are, in the first place, certain that it does not come from the road map of the work programme and that the measures envisaged will be implemented to the greatest extent possible. The fact is that the situation of our economy is not merely a consequence of the present global crisis. It is therefore so important that the measures are long-term. The restructuring of the economy is an inevitable necessity. It will therefore be necessary to make maximum efforts to move from a point when we are addressing the negative consequences of the crisis to a point when our economy is stable and ready to respond quickly and effectively to future crises. For the successful recovery of the economy, it makes sense: its treatment, the removal of unused shells and the recovery of healthy kernels. Here innovation, technological development and entrepreneurship are key in the way of this. Of course, appropriate guidance, financial support and the encouragement of the country itself are also key. Special attention is also drawn to the creation of new, at least small enterprises in a less developed economy and to the promotion of their growth in medium-sized enterprises. In Slovenia, therefore, measures to increase global competitiveness, the tourism economy and increase the volume of tourism activities by promoting public-private partnerships are essential. It is also appropriate to build an economy in areas that constitute a fixed point with the agricultural sector, i.e. food-processing and food activities. This is just a few points where we see an opportunity for the economy to get stronger so that, as a healthy economy, it can boost revenue in the state budget. That they can still be needed jobs and that they will be stable and safe. This alone leads to a general social well-being that we still miss today. In our view, Mrs Darja Radic, Minister of Economy, is worthy of our confidence that our economy will lead not only on the path of recovery, but also on the path to a strong and stable economy, which will be put on an equal footing with the economies of other Member States of the European Union and others outside of this relationship. That is why Members of the DeSUS are pleased to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. President of the Government, ministers, other associates of the government, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will support the proposal of the President of the Government to be called Minister of Economy Mag. Darjo Radic. Ms Radiceva at the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club is assessed as a suitable candidate with many years of experience in economic development planning at both local and national levels. Mrs Radiceva also has experience from the real sector, which we consider particularly important in these times in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. We have thus observed in the daily newspaper that Mrs Radiceva is considered a person who also responds to the specific problems of individual companies and offers them assistance, which is extremely positive in this situation. We would particularly like to highlight its role as Secretary of State responsible for coordinating policy preparation, promoting entrepreneurship and competitiveness. In this area, we estimate that, through the actions of the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, the Public Agency for Entrepreneurship and Foreign Investment and others, much has already been done, but there will be a lot of work to be done through the implementation of additional innovative measures. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we would like to point out that more efforts must be made in the economic sector to modernise the structure of the economy, which has proved to be relatively outdated and weak in these times. This is a long-standing situation which reflects the real power of the Slovenian economy in times of crisis. Of course, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we are aware that restructuring of the economy requires long-term planning and implementation of many activities to achieve these goals. In doing so, at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that, as a small and open economy, we should not implement rigid or strict targeted industrial policies, but should pay more attention to an institutional and legal environment that allows for the development and further implementation of good ideas. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we also want more measures to be intersectorally or intersectorally coordinated when planning economic development. In doing so, we are particularly concerned with the education, education and research and development capacities of Slovenia. That's why in this segment we see the opportunity to be a mag. We have also been able to present measures and instruments with the experience of teaching and research work that will enable an economic and technological breakthrough. Like all Europe, Slovenia suffers from disease because there is an incredible amount of knowledge and skills generated in research and development and other institutions, and on the other hand these skills are not properly transferred to the real sector. As we know, Slovenia is a highly export-oriented country and is also successful in exports, but this export structure is poor, as we mostly export technologically less demanding products. We expect the future Minister to present, in the coming months, measures for medium- and long-term restructuring of the economy to achieve greater competitiveness in Slovenia. However, this can provide a higher level of prosperity and quality of life for the population, which we and, of course, must be our main objective. As has already been said, we will vote in favour of the appointment of mags in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Works in the post of Minister of Economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the National Communities will be presented by Dr. László Göncz. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, distinguished other representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Firstly, let me point out that our Group's position is also positive for the Government's proposal or for mags. Darje Radic, who is proposed Minister of Economy. We do not say that we are pleased that the resignation of the current Minister, which we have greatly appreciated, has taken place. However, in view of all the circumstances that have taken place in the past days and of the exceptional need for the speedy deployment of this over all the important ministerial functions, we are pleased that the Prime Minister has been able to find a suitable candidate in a short time. If we believe that, in view of the extremely poor overall financial situation, the current functioning of the Ministry of the Economy has been satisfactory, the period ahead can be expected with a hint of optimism, since a candidate for a minister who has also been a secretary of state at the same ministry can ensure continuity after that. With regard to its presentation of the programme and priority, I would like to mention the emphasis on improving the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, without which negative trends cannot be halted over the past 15 months. I have also listened to part of her vision of getting out of the crisis, about which I would say only so much that the results will, of course, confirm the appropriateness of the substantive emphasis. However, the layman was also able to assess that at the presentation the candidate operated very sovereignly and professionally. With regard to its plans to speed up the creation of regional or regional economic centres, we believe that this project, if implemented successfully, can make a major contribution to the overall improvement of economic activities as well as to the partial development of certain sectors. In doing so, we point to the need for greater balance of these economic centres throughout the country, and in particular to the additional concern for economically less developed areas, which must finally be applied in the State economic policy. I can safely say that in the eastern part of the country, especially in the Pomur region, there is a great interest in the polycentric concept of the creation of economic centres. This has a tradition in our case. In recent decades, development has also created progenitors of potential centres of a polycentric character that can be well integrated and complementary. Since Mrs Radic is also an expert in tourism, we rightly expect that, despite the unequivocal development that has taken place in recent decades, accelerated steps can be taken with new added values. I think it's also in the province, and I come from the coat, and especially in the border areas, there's still a lot to do. The development strategy in the area of tourism of those areas that are potentially hidden tourist treasures should be systematically relocated, and so far no one has dealt with them in depth. From the point of view of the national communities, I would point to only one question. Despite repeated warnings and requests also addressed to the Ministry of the Economy, we have not yet been able to create new foundations for ensuring the economic basis of indigenous national communities, which unfortunately has a major impact on the development potential of the Hungarian and Italian national communities and on their actual social equivalence. We expect the candidate to show interest in this specific issue and to cooperate with the other competent authorities. Finally, I would like to point out that, unlike the first half of the 20th century, when in another state, politicians with the names of Radic, who were male, today or in the last few weeks, enter the middle European space into the political scene of a person with the same or similar name, but these are women's sexes. Recently, Mrs Iveta Radicova was appointed president of the Slovak government. I am sure that in a few hours Mrs Darja Radic will be appointed Minister of Economy of the Slovenian Government. The Slovak Prime Minister or her government has already taken one decision — a rejection of Greece’s assistance, which is very receptive and which I am not sure is a positive move. But I'm not going to let that happen. I conclude by saying that I hope that our new Minister's first moves will also be of general appreciation, because the growth of the Slovenian economy will be fully supported. I wish her a lot of success in this activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bojan Kontic. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! But today is not the time to judge a outgoing minister. However, it is certainly an opportunity for me to thank Dr Matthew Lahovnik, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, for his cooperation. It's no secret that there were differences between us. It was most noticeable when adopting the profit-sharing law. In the Group of Social Democrats, we have also advocated the compulsory sharing of profits among employees, of course under certain conditions. We didn't make it, and here's one of the new ministers' orders. The government proposal, which was rejected in the third because we succeeded in including a compulsory profit-sharing with the amendment, was even better than the current regime without this amendment. It would be appropriate for this law to be adopted in the autumn, together with the working stock market in the National Assembly. We will support the proposal of the Prime Minister and the Members of the Social Democrats. We believe that the President acted responsibly when he proposed to the candidate within a very short period of time. The candidate was also now an integral part of the Ministry of the Economy team and will be able to continue its work quickly and effectively. The priority is certainly to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. In the Group of Social Democrats, however, we add a demand for a sense of social justice that I do not say security. The area of action of the candidate in the post of State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, where she has focused in particular on the management and coordination of work in the field of policy preparation, the promotion of entrepreneurship and competitiveness and tourism policy, gives us optimism. Yesterday, at the meeting of the National Assembly, we rejected the Labour Relations Act because we decided to release space in the legislative procedure for a complementary proposal that would prevent the establishment of'slam companies'. In doing so, I should like to take this opportunity to reiterate the conclusion that only the amendment of Article 73 of the Labour Relations Act will not suffice. It will also be necessary to intervene in the Company Act, and I expect the future Minister to play an active role here. When we talk about straw companies, some today also associate them with disabled companies, which employ unemployed people and operate in accordance with the law. It will be necessary to severely sanction abuses, not to punish those who compete fairly within the framework of acute competition. In this Chamber, we also talk a lot about more coherent regional development, drawing on so-called European funds and calls from the Ministry of Economy. The economy expects cooperation and encouragement in the field of development, but this is already in excess of the portfolio that the new minister is receiving today. So the challenges are more than enough. In the Group of Social Democrats, we expect an active ministry policy and a response to the initiatives and demands that come from the economy. We therefore welcome the swift action of the President of the Government, because in these tight economic conditions we need a Minister with full powers. Members of the Social Democrats will therefore be supported by the proposal of the President of the Government for a new Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u16	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, welcome! So in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that the economic situation in Slovenia, which is bad, is also the responsibility of the current government and the current economic policy, not only the economic crisis, which had global and, of course, European dimensions. Indeed, Slovenia has fallen into this crisis because it is an open and small economy, but the consequences of this crisis could be felt differently by the Slovenian economy and Slovenian people if economic policy were to be more successful. Let us walk again through the repeated numbers that are sad. The fall of gross domestic product in the Republic of Slovenia in 2009 was recorded according to the euro area. So one of the biggest falls in the European Union. Not only did the fall of gross domestic product fall, but also the fall of gross domestic product per capita by purchasing power fell from 91 % of the average of seven to 86 % of the average of twenty-seven. What does that mean? Thus, despite the fact that all other countries were also in crisis, in Slovenia the fall of gross domestic product fell by 5% more by purchasing power than the average. So this is one very illustrative confirmation of a bad policy in the period and mandate of this government. The drop in competitiveness has already been mentioned. For 20 cities, we have managed to fall on the international competitiveness charts. More and more concerned about the rising inflation and what drives inflation in the Republic of Slovenia? Mainly the prices of utilities or government controlled prices, including energy prices due to excise duties, electricity prices and the like. Unemployment, within the mandate of this government, you have produced 40,000 actually new unemployed, registered at the Employment Institute. At least there are so many who are involved in various measures, and the intervention measures of this government, which are waiting for work at home or are unemployed in companies, are recorded as employees, but are, of course, actually unemployed. Yesterday, too, a structural indicator on labour productivity shows that we fell in one year from 84.3% of the average of seven hundred to 80.8%. So by about 3 and a half percent, we also fell by the productivity indicator. If I continue with the deficit, instead of investing in the economy, in order to relieve the economy and invest money in projects, this fixed public spending, linked to some current expenditure that goes from hand to mouth, is increasing. On this basis, we have already produced 5% of the gross domestic deficit product on record. Or if we look at the revenue of the Republic of Slovenia's budget, about 25% of the deficit. You have a 25% deficit in terms of the revenue of the state budget. The public debt has not been able to increase any other country in twenty-seven as much in this mandate as you do, and you generously share the guarantees for these and those matters. In fact, he doesn't even know what things we're vouching for. The Act on Slovenia's accession to the financial mechanism to help the euro area countries has just been adopted in some contexts, where it is not even known who will receive this money. We have already given a guarantee quota of a good two billion euros. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we reiterate that economic policy measures were inadequate, too slow and ineffective. It's not just us. This is confirmed by the figures I have given you in the past or so far. Instead of going through economic stress measures, we are going the other way around, with measures of additional burden on the economy. Look at the excise policy of this government. Excise excise duties on all energy products have been drastically raised, especially fuel fuels, fuel oil, gas. Excavities on electricity are being raised. Forecasted for the following year, thank God it was not carried out this year, there is an additional tax on those who emit CO2 into the environment, about €120 million more in revenue from this tax. The 2010 and 2011 government budget memorandum stated that the new Real Estate Tax Act would increase the tax revenues of this title by about half a percent of gross domestic product, or read 160, 170 million euros. So, this is an insufferable tax screw, fork, compressor, where Slovenian economy and Slovenian people are placed. See, words, today a German proverb is written in one of the Slovenian diaries: "Hands like to forget what they have promised." Let us see the hearing or hearing of Minister Lahovnik, November 2008. He wrote or said: "As you know, it was one of the conditions that I decided to join the government to actually unload the economy in the first stage. Now that I have said what I am thinking and what I think is a first and better move, it is in fact that social security contributions are declining in the first phase." Dear Government, have you reduced social security contributions in the country after a year and a half with these words, in line with these promises made by the Minister of Economic Affairs at that time? No contributions, no taxes. On the contrary, you've increased them. So once again, they like to forget what their mouths have promised. I hope that you will finally move from words to actions and that after that, possible measures in the economic field will only see the light of the world. However, the last balance of the budget also runs counter to the expectations of the economy. In fact, the last budget rebalancing is a very clear signal that the government follows only one policy and itself, this is a short-term, short-sighted, inefficient policy of consolidating public finances at the expense of cutting investments or at the expense of cutting what may in the future create economic growth. This is a short-term static policy that has never been paid and has always only accelerated one spiral of decline into the depth of faded economic activity, as regards GDP in terms of productivity, tax revenues and, consequently, as regards some possibility of recovery from the crisis. What does the Slovenian economy need right now? He needs a strong, politically strong minister or minister. One who turns words into actions. Such one, who will put his vision of what is right in this economic space into concrete action, through a decision-making process between all gentlemen and ladies sitting behind me, through a decision-making process through the Government. However, it is not that someone there will succeed in turning the matter into his own. Minister Lahovnik was one of the founders of Zares. One of the most popular politicians of this time, and he didn't make it. Minister Lahovnik has failed to implement what he has promised, what he will stand for, and what he has promised as a condition for which he has entered politics to relieve the economy. By then, November 2008 was already a crisis, and challenges and traps had already been seen, as well as growing deficits and the resulting situation in public finances. In his hearing, he cited a number of problems with salaries in the public sector or with expenditure and, of course, the need to consolidate public cash and public finances. However, he said that it was necessary to relieve the economy of the need to reduce the social security contribution by 5%. That's what it says. Those are his statements. So even though we had a strong, politically strong minister, a popular minister, he failed. He failed because clearly the words of the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister were different and rejected these efforts. I'm asking you, rhetorically: Darja Radic is politically stronger, more effective than Minister Lahovnik? I won't speculate. Mrs Radic is also shown by the ministers of the party Zares, who are not here today. There's no Minister Golobic, no Minister Shirce or anything like that. It's an illustration of the relationship, it's an illustration of the party's relationship to it. I think it would be best, perhaps not just for a joke, to propose that the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology join the Ministry of Higher Education, Economy, Science and Technology. Then she'll have a politically strong minister for once. I can and I believe that Mrs Radic is a good expert, a good, working woman, to know what needs to be done in the economy. This is possible, and it may also be true that it is working, that it has actually connected the ministry so far. In this situation, however, will it be able to take the necessary economic measures through the Government? These are rhetorical questions to which you must answer, especially honourable members of the coalition, because you have a responsibility, because you are in charge of this country and you are responsible for the state and conduct of the government in this country. We are walking through a few measures, or some of Mrs Radic's views, which we were able to get at the hearing yesterday or at Mrs Radic's hearing. Firstly, legislation, economic law, economic law is appropriate and does not require swift and reckless changes. Members of the coalition supported the request for an investigative commission that the takeover law has caused anomalies, that even, some of us have political responsibility for the fact that the takeover law is poor and has allowed managers to take over. That's what you signed. Today, Minister Lahovnik notes as well as future Minister Radic that the legislation is fine. It was confirmed yesterday. Decide whether you will continue to seek and lead politically people who have worked with the right and good intentions, or whether you will finally believe those you are proposing as ministers. I am pleased, not least as a former minister, that a year and a half after this government came, that there was none, I stress, not a single systematic proposal to amend legislation in the field of economic law, not one, nor in the field of the Company Act, nor in the area of the takeover Act, nor in the area of the Trade Law, nor in the field of any. In short, the law governing the economic field. and were the system laws adopted in the previous term. We've talked so much about the Chamber of Commerce Act. When there were so many readings on the part of Zares, when you introduced voluntary membership in the Chamber of Commerce and why not in the Chamber of Commerce, Mrs Radic said yesterday that she thought it was right for the Chamber of Commerce to remain in the required membership. Now find out who can. So once again, the German proverb says, "Hands like to forget what their mouths have promised." It was very important to predict three key policies when it comes to state aid to the economy and the statement made by Mrs Radic: "Now is the time for new investments, products, technologies and breakthroughs to foreign markets." In the rebalancing, however, the government deletes money for new investments, not support tax reliefs for investments and for development projects of the economy, and does not support a reduction in tax rates of profits, because this is the money that companies can use horizontally in all companies. The candidate, on the one hand, says that she supports the reduction of taxes, that she thinks that this is the right measure, but that she is aware that this is fiscally difficult because of the situations in which we are, so already in this area, she is giving up and abandoning the way forward with regard to the burden of the economy. Mrs Radic's position on economic diplomacy is very interesting. We are all aware that in a time of economic crisis, i.e. at a time and in a state in which the Slovenian economy is located, it is extremely important for the Slovenian economy to try to strengthen opportunities in foreign markets. Economic diplomacy has been transferred from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Mrs Radic is well-assessed that this was a premature decision by this government. I fully agree with that. This was indeed a premature and wrong decision of this government. Slovenian diplomacy, Slovenian diplomatic-consular representations are about as far as our country is concerned. So they are modestly equipped with people and also with financial resources. And very few people are in diplomatic-consular representations, and they are mainly involved in diplomatic-consular affairs. The economy is often running out of time. I've been walking the world for four years, watching it. Some diplomats are very, very fond of the economy, but for some it is the Spanish village and they prefer to walk there after the receptions of various colleagues, rather than looking for concrete opportunities for the Slovenian economy. That is why we wanted economic advisers at these diplomatic and consular offices to be engaged only in economic activities, to be organisationally involved in the structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to have the status they have in terms of their function. So it is said that they have the status they can have under the Foreign Affairs Act, but that they are substantively responsible for the Ministry of the Economy's work, because this ministry can coordinate, guide and, last but not least, supervise the work done by these economic advisers. With all this coming together to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, this will work very well in some countries, where ambassadors feel that their main task is to seek out business for Slovenia and attract foreign investments in Slovenia. Unfortunately, most countries, or most embassies, do not. That is why I think that this is one of the mistakes that has been made and the component of which is obviously also the current candidate for Minister, since she has been Secretary of State so far, but it has nevertheless happened. We can already feel today in view of yesterday's hearing of the candidate for friction within the coalition. Here, a representative of the largest coalition party tells us about the compulsory sharing of profits for employees, while a candidate for a minister supports voluntary division and says that there is no need to amend the Company Act when we talk about so-called straw companies and prevent abuse in the field of labour law. I also believe that the Labour Relations Act is the right legal form where solutions are sought for this unacceptable phenomenon. It was very interesting to look at the candidate for competition protection and consumer protection. It says that the creation of a new Competition and Consumer Protection Agency or a new law will solve these problems and that this body will later be independent of politics. So, if I understand correctly, it was now policy-dependent, has the action of the Competition Protection Office been policy dependent so far? From what policy? We didn't get an answer to those questions. If someone thinks that the Office for Competition Protection will now go as a body within the Ministry of Economy as an agency under the authority of the Government, where the Government will appoint the Director, the Government is a political body as a parliament, where the Government will appoint the Director of the Agency, but this is now independent of policy. Listen, you can say this somewhere in kindergarten, or maybe there in the first triad of elementary school, and what's higher will nobody believe you that if the government calls something that it's independent of politics. This is the main added value of this law. I believe that this is another agency and that it is the headship of the current successful independent leader of the Sorsak Competition Protection Office, who has taken the lead in many of the tycoons in this country who are part of the political nest of the current coalition. Energy. I was relatively disappointed with the weak knowledge, not only knowledge, but also the views of Mrs Radiceva in the field of energy. Energy is a very difficult sector of the economy, it is also involved in the interests of many lobbying, economic lobbying, including political lobbying. Therefore, there must be a man who can cut these things and have his own opinion. I must say, Mrs Radiceva has shown relatively little determination here. For example, one interesting question that was not answered and has affected many Stajerce, especially Mariborians, is that recently there was a free, free transfer of the share of Drava power plants in a company that builds hydropower plants on the Lower Sava to holding. So someone simply took one of the investments that they had in the chain construction company and transferred it to the holding company. I also hear that there has also been a transfer of the share held by the Sokska Power Plants in this company. So no one is going to tell me that this was a purely economic decision, which is the thing of these societies. For I know the position of Holding of Slovenian Power Plants when to transfer the share it has in the company that builds the Lower Sava to Gen Energy. And then the holding company said that it was a useful, profitable, efficient investment and that it wouldn't just give it up, and then I would do it in return, at the book value of some return. Now this same holding company has achieved, on an economic basis, that it has obtained this share free of charge. Therefore, it is a pure policy to involve some political government structures fully in the decision-making of these companies to the detriment of the Drava power plants. And you know what the drone power plants were told? You're lucky we took that investment away from you, at least you don't have any costs with it. It's just like I would take your house or your car and say, "Be happy that I took it away from you, because now you won't have the cost of keeping the house and the car." That logic is really strong. It is a constant involvement of policy in these energy stories, and only one great hope can we cultivate that someone will be able to cut through these too strong ties. The relatively indifferent view of the secretary of state or future minister for overpaid electricity was very interesting. I do not think that the biggest problem in Slovenia is the overpaid electricity of households, and there was also obviously the following measures by the Office. More concerned about overpaid electricity in the economy, in companies. Firms have overpaid electricity considerably and it is right that at least the policy would advocate that part of the overpayment or everything will come back. Your Honor, there are several areas where it will be very important that the new minister can convince all other members of the government. But we know what it's like. This is usually done if a person has a political influence, a power if he threatens to step out of the coalition and so on. Minister Golobic was successful. Minister Golobic was able to convince the Government and the ministers that there is nothing wrong with having a hidden "buyer company" in the Netherlands, which has not reported to the public. Minister Golobic was able to convince him that there is nothing wrong with the bank granting him practically unsecured loans and inadequately secured loans. The data show that around 50% of Ultra's loans were inadequate, inappropriate and also non-primaryly secured. That only 20% of the loans were able to be credited in this category. This is said to be in the category that the loans were adequately, properly or first-classly insured, 50% were not insured at all, and 30% were covered by some worthless coins and the like. Minister Golobic was able to convince the government that there is nothing wrong with his company trading or operating with the country. In short, the customer is really the only honest customer in this country, and everyone else is probably on the other side. That's the kind of man we'd need in the economic sector. One who would be able to convince him that he's out of the night right now and that we're here at minus 15 degrees. And we'd all believe him and say, "Yes, Gregor." Your Honor! The economy, not the opposition, the economy expects you to put in place a man whose words and actions will have weight and whose actions and forecasts will also be realized. Don't stand by that German river again, saying, "Hands like to forget what they promised." And that you will not, in fact, give in again to the temptation that anything that has so far been bad in this mandate is the fault of the former government, and all that will be done after the bad, is the ineffective coalition or any weak member of this coalition. It's usually DeSUS or someone else. At the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support the Minister's candidate. We're not going to argue with her, either. Today, if you've counted a little in the morning, we've allowed this meeting to begin at all. For if the opposition had not voted on the agenda and obstructed or abstained from voting, this meeting would not yet be held. I don't know if you'd come all this way. The appointment of ministers of the government is a matter of coalition, not a matter of opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, if the opposition cared little about what was going on in the economic field, we would not do that. Slovenia needs a minister, Slovenia needs an effective economic policy. Please be careful when taking measures in this direction. Do not sit and subject to short-sighted policies that raise tax burdens in the country on behalf of consolidation of public finances, but make very unstable public finances in the medium and long term. That is why, of course, we want Mrs Radic to take many, many effective measures and happy hands, ingenuity, and perhaps even the mountain stubbornness to do what she said yesterday.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Even earlier, Mr Franci Kek has a procedural proposal. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Dear President, I would ask you to warn the debaters that they are following the agenda and not to repeat the lies already told a hundred times. If we work this way, I will tell you every time that Minister Andrej Vizjak eats small children.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u19	Thank you very much. First thing. Everyone is responsible for what they say. Each person signed under his own person and political profile with his or her own sentence and with his or her own spoken thoughts. My job is to make sure that there is as much vocabulary as it is in harmony with common cultural and public standards in public life. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u20	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're really running for mag in the E.R. Darje Radic was accompanied by the words "female acts and fewer words". I think we've said a lot about this, maybe even answered some of my predecessor's questions. However, we certainly believe that this has illustrated well enough what we believe about the candidate. Even about her work so far. Well, if we look at her biography, then we see that so far she worked in the Municipality of Jesenice, she was employed in the construction company Grosuplje, and later in the Municipality of Kranjska Gora, where she was also the director of the Institute for the Promotion and Development of Tourism in Kranjska Gora. Her career path later focused more on research and teaching work, so in the last period before becoming secretary of state at the Ministry of Economy, she was employed at the University of Tourism in Portorož from 2005 to 2008. In any case, we can also assess its work so far through the work of the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Economy. Many of you have spoken of the good work of her predecessor today. I am sure that many, many concrete actions of the State Secretary of Mags are involved in this work by Mr Lahovnik. Darje Radic. Up until now, she was the second man of this ministry. Therefore, the solution proposed by President Pahor, which in some ways represents the continuity of work, is good. Good because it won't actually take a minute to take over this ministry. Good because, in fact, it has run many calls and projects within the Ministry so far, and good because, at the time of Mr Lahovnik's ministry, it has co-created a work programme that will continue and at the same time – I am sure – complemented with some new approaches, new proposals and new perspectives on the resolution of the serious problems in which we are. For the times in which we — many of you have talked about it — are difficult, and in these times it is certainly not an easy decision to make. The crisis is still here, the instability and the uncertainty are still there. We just want the crisis to calm down slowly and that countries that are still in the dark in search of solutions will slowly find an effective mechanism for economic recovery and, at the same time, in particular, for the recovery of financial markets. The crisis also affected Slovenia greatly. Nobody's hiding this. Nobody's hiding. We are only different in terms of perhaps and nuances as to why the crisis has affected Slovenia more strongly than other countries. The opposition sees, of course, the main reason for this is that this is a reflection of the government's incompetence. Personally and even in the party, we really believe that the crisis is multilayered and that there are other causes. Surely in many problems, which were also inherited, they were inherited, for years and years had accumulated. It wasn't working out. It did not join the reforms. The transition has shown all sides of its path in the crisis. Improperty in ownership has come to the fore, because the managers in Slovenia have unfortunately been more concerned with how to take over the companies they manage, and how to manage these companies, and how to make money for acquisitions, especially for the various circuits and drains. This is a lot of things that have caused Slovenia to be in a bigger crisis. Finally, what no one, ever in the opposition, wants to hear, has to be stressed repeatedly, is that, in the years when it was possible to rule when bags and crates were full, we have not produced in this country, we have prepared supplies for difficult times, nothing. More problems were left behind, more problems accumulated, more pre-election promises made. The public sector's wage reform is ready just ahead of it with 100 million consequences, which are actually giving everyone a headache today, and which, while we are full of mouths, is why public finances and the public sector need to be reduced. Of course, who is to blame for the fact that at the moment everything has been lost to an uncontrollable degree, and this is already a few things where some experience a history or forgetting, according to Slovenian. All these structural weaknesses are even more evident and, of course, our economy has great problems because it is not competitive and is technologically poorly equipped. Because – as I said before – money didn't go into technology, money went to take over. What happened, it blew up in the middle. That's why ministers don't wait for light times and not a simple task. But one such as _ I am sure – be assured and believe us, it is a good promise and marriage that she will invest all her energy, knowledge, will, dynamics and power in finding a solution that she has and that is especially her own. Last but not least, as has been repeated many times before, I was also the first to point out the mountain aberration, which is not so much for reflection, and, of course, a healthy rational logic that is not lacking. Ma'am mag. Darja Radic is a man of action, is a man of action, is determined, is uncompromising, and perhaps it is also good that her words are less important to her, that her impression is not important and not like. As she said at yesterday's presentation, it is important to be active in finding new markets and to help the economy strengthen competitiveness and technological modernisation. Its ambition is to develop as many instruments to help the economy as possible for the development of an entrepreneurial environment. It will be important, in her view, to develop financial engineering. This was highlighted several times and explicitly yesterday: financial engineering for small and medium-sized enterprises. On the other hand, the development of economic centres, the call for $185 million in substantial funds, is currently open and internationalisation and the promotion of foreign direct investment. Among other important priorities, candidate Radic also listed the development of support institutions, which she stressed are many in Slovenia, but are poorly linked and not the most effective in Slovenia. In this regard, let me add that, with regard to the changes in economic legislation, she wanted to make clear, in particular, her position in the sense that it is not for reckless legislative changes, that it considers that in most cases legislation has been adopted and that the problems are in the right sense and there are problems elsewhere, and that there is no real and great need for radical legislative changes at this time. At the same time, it stressed that, if necessary and legislative changes were to be made, such changes would, of course, also occur. In the field of energy, it highlighted the adoption of a national and energy programme, the promotion of renewable energy sources and the provision of as much self-sustainment as possible through the implementation of energy investments in Slovenia, both those already close to or in progress, as well as those where documentation and projects need to be prepared. It has announced the activities and arrangements of the conditions and conditions for the investment of Block 6 in the Termoelectric power plant Šostjanj and other energy projects. Perhaps a few more opinions about Mrs Darja Radic. I think it is important that her candidacy be welcomed in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, where cooperation has already been highlighted and assessed as good. Of course, they also hope that its appointment will contribute to the continuity of the Ministry's work so far, particularly in the area of competitiveness and innovation. In short, the experience of the Chamber of Commerce is good. Similarly, the experience of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, where they were also satisfied with the decision to become Mrs Darja Radic, as they say they have worked well with her so far and she has been an active factor in relation to the economy. In the Group of Ambassadors, Really Mag. Darji Radic wants to continue the light tradition of the devilish Slovenes. Why did I say that? The devil's Slovenes because they were and we used to call them skiers. Also those who came from its end: Špela Pretnar and Alenka Dovžan. I'm sure Dara has a lot of devils in her. That is why we want her in a place that requires real knowledge, determination, energy, will, stubbornness, patience and openness. We know that she is not missing, so in the Group of Members we will indeed support her election. However, since some criticisms have been made earlier regarding the presence of ministers or ministers in the Zares party, allow me to tell you where they are. This is not a reflection of any opposition, but the times are such that at the moment Minister Golobič is at the University of Cyprus at a meeting that has been agreed for a long time. Minister Shirca has a meeting with the directors of all national cultural institutions, which was agreed months ago. But Minister Krebs is sorry in bed. You know she was in surgery, and at this point, unfortunately, she was put back to bed. I apologize on their behalf. You don't have to insinuate that anything is wrong, that it's a reflection of anything. That's why I had to say it, or I wouldn't. They're also secretaries of state. But the fact is, you always find everything bad when you only want to see it bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much. They concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u22	Dara Radic is presented as a continuation of the economic policy that has been created together with current Minister Matei Lahovnik. Despite this continuity, however, I would like the new Minister to bring the necessary new dynamics to the Ministry, strengthen the Ministry of the Economy and give it more importance and role in the whole government. It is also an experience in this National Assembly that economic policy is run by the Committee on the Economy on the basis of the Ministry of Economy initiatives by the Committee on Public Finance and Monetary Policy on the basis of the Ministry of Finance initiatives. This is probably logical in terms of the economic structure and policy of the government. Nevertheless, at the outset, I would like to say that I would like this cooperation between the National Assembly and the Ministry to be strengthened in this regard and that the Ministry would also be more active in leading its policy in the lines outlined, namely: increasing the competitiveness of the economy and ensuring the safe and stable supply of electricity. I'm sure the current secretary of state in this candidacy can be supported. Nevertheless, I stress that not everything is ideal between us, and that there are differences in the view that I am proud to belong to the majority of the government, which is not a monolithic structure, but is a set of autonomous personalities who have their opinions and who can coordinate these differences and views in a creative dialogue to finally take the best possible solutions. And so it is in this case. I have several differences in views identified, but these differences do not convince me that Darja Radic today would not be worthy of my support, my confidence in her election to the post of Minister of Economy. Why? Because, in close cooperation with the National Assembly so far, it has also proved to be a person capable of dialogue through a frank and frank conversation that highlights differences, to link to the common denominator what still links us. However, each other's differences are coordinated in a direction that provides the best possible solutions. This is the economic policy I need. But not an economic policy of one-way views, which is always convinced of its right and which is still ready to praise the economic heritage of the past long and wide. This economic heritage alone in the past, not only of the government of Janez Janša, but also of the previous governments, cannot be regarded as the optimal starting point with which Slovenia entered the crisis and the unoptimal starting point, so let us make the necessary development breakthrough. The development breakthrough towards a more technologically demanding competitive economy, which will be fueled by the knowledge and creativity of our people, is something of which there is an important consensus in the National Assembly. What I miss and what I expect from the new Minister of Economic Affairs is to strengthen the implementation phase to implement these policies, to clearly develop measures from the goal to the goal, and in the final stage we have already rounded up an important part of this in the exit strategy, which, however, represents the sum and set of economic policies of our Government. There are differences. I'm certainly not thrilled with the sixth block of the Heat Power Plant, not to say otherwise, that I'm almost opposed to it, but that I'm so real that I know we can't stop this investment anymore. The Minister's candidate said yesterday that no one has shown her the alternatives to reliable and stable electricity supply in Slovenia. We, together with colleagues Levanič and Juri and colleague Župevčeva, already months ago, addressed the Government with an initiative to prepare an alternative study on the future of Slovenian energy without the sixth block of the Termoelectrica Šoštanj. Only such an expert study can show where the alternatives are. But there are alternatives. It is precisely in the area of renewable energy sources, which the government expects to give them more attention to by the end of this mandate, because this is an area where Slovenia is relatively rich, but definitely richer than what we are doing today in the actual energy recovery. Mrs Radic and I also differ in some respects on the privatisation of state property. I believe we're going to have a creative conversation about this. Last but not least, as we will also adopt a capital investment management strategy next year in the National Assembly. I will be among those alone, but I know that there will not be a few of us to prove that the country can be a good owner of businesses, and that we must not be headlessly selling state property because it is an irreversible process. Among other things, it was one of the more successful moves of this government, a more specific finance minister, that he made up for the loss caused by foreign banks operating in Slovenia by the successful deposit of bonds on the international market when they withdrew EUR 3 billion immediately after the start of the crisis from Slovenia. This was then a real threat to the financial system's collapse. The government has compensated for this through effective measures. This experience also teaches us why it is important to keep the main Slovenian banks at home, not to say state-owned. There may also be some differences in support of large infrastructure projects. I do not imagine that we will make a demanding technological and development breakthrough in this country only by selectively supporting certain ideas and projects of entrepreneurs, but also by organising, setting conditions and investing in improving the basic infrastructure of the Slovenian economy, this fundamental development backbone, which represents a better promise of dynamizing our development, providing more prosperity in Slovenian society and building a new Slovenian success story. With regard to Drava Power Plants, Mr Vizjak mentioned them, mainly part of my position with him. I am pleased that, according to information, the Government's consent to the free transfer of the ownership share of Drava power plants to the hydroelectric power plant on the Lower Sava is withdrawn from the Government, so that the Government will not decide on this agreement, thus making this free transfer not in the case of Drava power plants, not in the case of Sočke power plants, will not. But we have a new challenge ahead of us, and this is the development plan of the Holding of Slovenian Power Plants. As some government representatives are sitting here, let me make it very clear that I expect the Government to give its consent to this development plan only when the holding company also aligns with the employees of the subsidiaries. There are some serious questions in Slovenian energy. Holding needs a renewed development plan, but it must be coordinated and subject to one broad consensus in Slovenian energy, not the continuation of the domination of one regional branch of Slovenian energy over others. Minister Radic, candidate Darji Radic, I want a lot of success in her work. I am counting on its action to a large extent, as it has so far been, to be based on a well-established dialogue in Parliament. I am convinced that with its leadership we can also achieve better results from the Slovenian economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Slovenia has been in the economic and financial crisis for more than a year, as we say. But that doesn't belong to today's session. The government is responsible for resolving the economic crisis with the support of Parliament in those sectors that the economy is in a poor economic situation. In the face of what we witnessed, it was my personal and also the first question of the Slovenian National Party: How will the Government be able to control the content, that is, the solution from the economic crisis, if it is not yet able to manage its own human resources policy? That's not an argument. I have a habit of very much arguing all the words I say. Mr Matej Lahovnik as economic minister and, of course, a member of the party Zares, one of the coalition parties, is not neither the first, nor the last, who would or would withdraw from any party. This has been happening over the past ten years since I have been sitting in this Parliament. I believe this will happen many more times in the years to come. This has nothing to do with the Slovenians and Slovenians who elected us to this Parliament. There's absolutely no connection that, for the reasons I'm about to mention, Matthew Lahovnik had to resign as an economic minister. The moment he stepped out of the party, he was the ultimate, supreme, super problem of this government, not how to proceed with the amendment of legislation to make things better for us, but, what now. What if this client now demands that the minister be someone else from this party? What will now happen to the words in the coalition contract? In short, the essence of the problem has arisen — cadre, careerism, fulfilment of certain contractual terms in a coalition agreement, not what is happening in the economic field. That's why he was forced to step down. Because he felt and knew that the political spears of careerism and positional functions would break on his back. The President of the Government and this government should only say one thing: "He stepped out of a political party, but he's a popular minister, he's probably popular because he's doing well or because he's trying to do well, which he also proved. We are in economic and financial crisis, we will solve human resources when we solve them, and we will save them later, we will move on." If I were the Prime Minister, I'd say, "Matthew, keep working. Thank you for saying that you're not in this party for real. You're just gonna be, where you're gonna be, keep working." No! No! What's more important is what's in the coalition contract. More important, it is to deal with and use newspapers to draw attention to mistakes rather than to drag on newspapers and to investigate these mistakes. More importantly, for this government, who is now the one who is ours to be there, but not what he knows, what he can do, what he wants. Of course, everything else doesn't matter. And even if she is, the new minister in this government will be the same story. The same! It will fall between waves, it will become invisible and listen to the whispers of shells that are the largest and most important, or — if you want — individuals who have influence in the government without having reason and without the public knowing about it. She won't be able to do anything, and she'll become a sinful goat. My "no," probably the only, and "no" of my two colleagues, probably the only three "no" are not Mrs. Raditchev. However, they are large, clear and stressed "no" such government policies, career policies, positional policies and policies, where it is important that someone is ours, the one written in the coalition treaty. But it doesn't matter what he can do or what he knows. In times of greatest crisis, we have already lost the fifth minister. I am convinced that this was the best among the other losers, in the most important area, just and only because of some political bargaining within a coalition treaty. And nothing, absolutely nothing about caring for the economy and helping people in distress. It doesn't matter. The important thing is that we have our own man, we're gonna put him up because he's gonna go through and we're gonna keep doing this. It's a bad policy. He's not going anywhere. I'll say not in principle once more against such a career policy. Nor will the Slovenian National Party say. Three of us here today and three of us will vote that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am one of those who will say "yes" today because I firmly believe that Slovenia needs a successful economic breakthrough in these times of crisis, that we must carry out a number of structural reforms that are of a broader character, and that it is very important for Slovenia that we continue to work in the field of economic activity, that there is no delay in getting the Minister or Minister as soon as possible and that we are looking for solutions. That's our job. I must say that I am disappointed by the retreat and the empty city, because my policy has always been that when problems and problems arise, we must fight and solve, not run away from them. I am pleased that Mrs Radic's work is very well known by the Ministry. We had quite a few experiences where the lady jumped into the ministry's work, came to Parliament for a number of coordinations instead of a minister, also solving problems on the ground. I must say, with her role and expertise, we have been pleased with the members of our club. Me, too. Of course, there are academic knowledge in life, theory is something, and practical performance is another. I think there's a comparative advantage here for a candidate to know how to function. In particular, I view it positively as a person who has the will, the desire to work, and not theorize. He also has some experience in many others and also in this field. There has been a lot of debate in recent days that may not have had enough political experience. I can view it not as a weakness, but as an advantage, for all these things come at such a function and position on their own. More will be our support for all Members of Parliament and Members. For if we stand firm for what we have all promised together, then we can certainly be even more successful in the economic field than we have been successful so far. I think the candidate will be able to connect this bridge with us. I'm also glad that the candidate is a woman. We talk a lot about equal opportunities. It is also right that words become acts and that in the Government we get another minister more. For those whom we have and have had so far do not depart, work hard, boldly, and driven in spite of the troubles which are on this path every day. That's a good message. On individual topics, certainly help Slovenian craft and entrepreneurship. Here we have large reserves, payment discipline, economic burdens, less red tape, consideration of alternative sources of energy and, finally, the recruitment of the state to enterprises that are majority state-owned. These companies must be examples, both by good governance and by appointment to the supervisory councils and by the strategy we want with them in the future. I'm just sure the continuity of the ministry won't suffer. The future minister doesn't need 100 days of peace, but she's going to take a hard and responsible job today or tomorrow. On this path, I promise her help, support, my voice, and I wish her happy and successful on this path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mag. In my opinion, Darja Radic has at least three qualities that will help the Minister in her work. The first is that he is well aware of the work of the economic sector. The second is that he can listen, and the third is that he can make decisions. Why am I pointing out point one? In recent days, I have also heard some concerns today that Mrs Darja Radic should have insufficient political experience, insufficient political power. I can't agree with that. Firstly, because she is a secretary of state and therefore well knows the work of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. She was the right-hand man of the outgoing minister and finally has other necessary experience. Otherwise, you will probably remember the minister, who today the opposition is singing when this minister took his place, the position of economic minister, came out of the profession and not out of politics in 2002. So he came without experience and left with rich experiences. Mag. Darja Radic can listen. This seems to me to be extremely important to this situation. The challenges that lie before and as the Minister of Economic Affairs demand consensus, demand consensus and demand obedience. He knows how to make decisions. This is at this critical time when we will be making crucial decisions in the coming months, more important than ever. Yesterday, the candidate highlighted the Committee as one of the important segments of its work of ensuring a stable, competitive and sustainable energy supply. A few words have already been said about this today. Let me thank her at this point. For practically just before becoming Minister, she and the Prime Minister visited Zasavje, where we reached an important agreement. This is to reintroduce the suture energy onto the map of Slovenian energy. That the coming national energy programme will contain a wide range of projects, including sussava and others. Why am I stressing this? Because it's mag. Darja Radic clearly understands that Slovenian energy is not a single project and there is no single energy facility. There is no Slovenian energy and it cannot only be the Sixth Block of the Termoelectric power plant Šostjanj. For it is not possible to ignore the fact that in recent months we have only discussed this project with the minister who left this important position. I think that as soon as the new Minister faces the problems that have been accumulated, especially as soon as she offers the public the answers to the key questions, it will be easier for her to do so. These unanswered questions and doubts – I agree with that – are bad for the project, are bad for the Shaleska Valley and are bad for Slovenian energy. Just one statement I would like to read from Mr Meh six months ago, quote: "In this country almost everyone feels called to question the sixth block: politicians, journalists and entertainers. A suspicion of corruption was put in the public eye, and now the so-called jester lobby defends itself." I can answer that. The 6th block is not Patria. So, my hope and my wish to the new minister, who will certainly receive enough support today as a candidate, is to finally cut through this Gordy knot and offer the public, civil society, Members and others the answers they have been setting up for months. In recent days, it has been heard that the project could not theoretically be guided ideally and that it could be managed more economically. If all of this is true, then I ask myself, ‘ Why was it not more economical, who is responsible, and who will answer? ’ The answers to these questions are urgent and, as the new ministers have said, will make it easier for them to work. My predecessor has already spoken about companies owned by the majority state. Let me also say a few words about taking care of the management of state property. In the process of bringing the OECD closer and following the guidelines of this organisation, we have also advocated in this Parliament in a number of documents the responsible and transparent functioning of State-owned control and management bodies and the relationship between the State as owner and those authorities. We have put economic governance in the public interest at the forefront of efficiency, transparency, accountability and predictability. There have been a number of cases in the last few months – I will not put them on the spot – when it has not been possible to get rid of the impression that the management of the property of the State is more of a matter of will to some individuals or that the state is in some way taking responsibility for handling public or state property. I'm putting great hopes in the secretary here, too. I hope that she will have the courage to act when she deems it necessary and that, as has already been the case with some investigative commissions, she will also take into account the findings of another investigative commission in the National Assembly, which is also investigating the economic and transparent behaviour of state-owned enterprises. Mag. Darji Radič, who will certainly receive enough support today, I particularly want a lot of courage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. If we look at what kind of support the future minister promises, we can only count on the Ministry of Health, because the only representative or secretary of state from this ministry is here at this presentation. She'll probably need health. In view of the fact that it comes from the party of Zares, I would expect that at least the members of the group of Zares here would formally or symbolically support it, but there is not one. By apparently promising her true great, great political support. It was once again clear today that the previous government had not left behind full of crap and what would have happened if, of course, it had been different. Before I get to the bottom of that, a few statistics that say more than enough what it really is. Slovenia ended in 2008 with a government deficit of minus 1.8 GDP. Poland, which is also a new accession country of the European Union, minus 3,6, Czech Republic minus 2,1. It means that the ticks in Poland were much more empty in the Czech Republic. And let's see after a year of the reign of the Pahor government what these bastards were like. Slovenia had a minus 7.8 GDP. Czech minus 4.8, Poland plus 1.2. It means that those countries that were significantly worse in 2008 were able to improve in 2009. If the opposition had concluded that the trumpets had been empty for two years now, then he could have concluded that if the government of Janša had been still in power for four years, these bastards would have been so full that no work would have to be done. This would probably have happened if the castes were fuller, but unfortunately, the electorate and the electorate made a different decision at the time. Now, let me get to the point. That former Minister Lahovnik would not be an economic minister for a long time now, he was able to see already when he was very hesitant to take over this ministry, because he was very well aware of how difficult this ministry was and how complex it was, especially how much support he would need. This ministry is certainly the most crucial for regulating the economic situation, especially now that we have such an economic situation, which is also strongly reflected in the world market, and more and more for us, instead of starting to calm down, economic growth or activity is falling. This is also attributable to the poor work of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I do not want to talk so much about Mr Lahovnik's bad work here, although I do not somehow share the view that at least here on his part, some such really systemic changes in legislation would be submitted to the National Assembly. There were some of his populist aspirations, and the idea of reducing management wages, and what people like, but those really systemic bills that could respond to bad economic conditions, unfortunately it wasn't, but it probably wasn't just his fault, but also the other ones. Changes in economic legislation should be essentially a priority. These changes should also be subordinated to other areas, other sources, including social policy, not to mention financial ones. Everything should be subordinated to the recovery of the economy as soon as possible, since it is the only thing that can ensure a better social situation in Slovenia, health care and could still be listed. Without the economy, I'm afraid that's not going to happen. I believe that Mr Lahovnik wanted these priorities to be realized. He also announced in his hearing that he was taking over the responsible area for what reason. But he probably soon recognized that he didn't have this support here. If we are now talking about his, say achievements, or what has been discussed in the National Assembly, this law on the sharing of profits to employees may have been the most important. His purpose here was good. He was good. But the coalition was so "stupid" that then justifiably it also fell because of the senseless amendment. And if I now quote Mr Saiovic that Mrs Radic's future minister can count on the support of the LDS as well as the coalition, this is a fine example of Mr Lahovnik's support when he objected to the mandatory sharing of profits for the employees. Thus, such statements were very much torn. The coalition was already the key goal of the division of electoral prey immediately after the takeover of power. Once again, privileged certain social elites and privileged areas that are important to each party to the coalition. And what were those priorities? Let us see from the end of 2008 ahead what those key priorities of the government, which with the economic crisis – I hope everyone understands – have nothing in common. Certainly it could not have been a priority to change the laws, to allow legal tariffs to rise again in the sky. In order to increase the salaries of the court. Are these the priorities that will solve our economy? To be adopted in the form of the Law on Deletes, which is now likely to be deeply concerned by heavy damages, not only of us, but also of our craftsmen. The law on RTV. Is that a priority for the economic crisis? The priority is to align the media. Mr Vizjak mentioned earlier that there were no major systemic changes. It's true, it wasn't systemic. However, there was one very important systemic change, but it was to the detriment of the economic ministry that the telecommunications sector had moved to the area of higher education run by Mr Golobič. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we had already warned and revealed the purpose of why this area wants to be under its influence, why it wants to have control. It was already known that in this way Ultra and all its subsidiaries and related companies would have an excellent power supply to pump public money through state-owned companies. That was the reason Mr. Lakhovnik was looking forward to. Indeed, he couldn't wait to have had some strong argument, a valid reason which he also publicly revealed and also then, not offered, but gave his irrevocable resignation. He was aware that, even in the future, it was not possible to count on economic issues to be settled. Now we are before the new minister is confirmed. I also believe that she will have sufficient support, although probably without coalition Members, who, if not otherwise, will give at least the quorum, will not suffice you. You weren't enough at the beginning when we confirmed the agenda. That's probably how her support here is more than satisfactory. But I hope that Mrs Radic is aware, of course, of my congratulations mainly for courage, but I hope she is aware of the role she is playing. He's coming on a team that's going to be a big, big burden for her, and he's probably not going to have support or he's going to have to fight back. This is crucial, as we have pointed out in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as well as in some other opposition parties, that it does not matter whether it has political experience or skills, whether it has political support. This is important, and I am afraid that this support will not be enough to bring those necessary economic changes through the government procedure or the ideas themselves, through the drafting of legislation, and not least through Parliament. At a hearing that I did not listen to directly but through other communication devices, the candidate lady pointed out all the problems that exist in Slovenia. She recognized everything perfectly, of course, through the work of the secretary of state. But that's not enough. They need to be recognized. But that's not enough because I don't think she'll be able to take this matter forward. Therefore, those findings: increase competitiveness, reduce the burden of the economy, introduce financial engineering for small and medium-sized enterprises – this is what we in the Slovenian Democratic Party have been alerting since 2009, since the beginning of the year. None of this has been heard, not by the government, not by the coalition. Nor will it be possible for her to expect this to work, at least not in such a short time. That is why I do not believe that this key ministry will have the attention, the weight, the important weight that our economy would need. Nevertheless, I wish the candidate much success, much happiness, and I can, on the part of the SDS, account for constructive assistance and also support when she also wants it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u31	Mr. Mag. Saivitz, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u32	I'm glad my esteemed colleague Grill mentioned me, but he must have misunderstood me. As a coalition Member, I always stand behind my ministers in the decisions of the National Assembly. As soon as coordination takes place and similar matters, of course, each of us can have his own opinion. We defended and also defended Minister Lahovnik's position that he was better volunteering for Slovenia than compulsory division. From my minister, however, I expect him to defend this position more decisively and energetically. A typical case was the profit-sharing law. Then there could be more involvement in the Funeral Activities Act. We put it in the drawer now. We could have cut ourselves off more in the Mountain Guides Act. These are the things where the successful work that Slovenia wants and needs is both necessary. A clear vision, the determination of ministers, the support of the majority in the National Assembly and, of course, in the field of legislation, we can be even more successful. This is good for Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u33	Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u34	Dear Vice President! Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the ministries, welcome you! I must admit that I have known Mrs Radic for a long time and that she convinced me that I will vote for her today, with my work and with yesterday's presentation on the Committee on the Economy, on which she presented her vision of leading the economy ministry in Slovenia. I have received relatively appropriate answers to all the questions I have asked myself. At the moment we are facing major challenges in Slovenia, especially the restructuring of the economy, which we are not running out of, we are not. We know that restructuring the economy is a process that takes decades or — we can say — always. And all or just all the economic ministers so far, of course, had this as a priority, they had excellent planning, but unfortunately it was only in planning. No one has made any reforms so far. There are many tasks ahead of the current Minister in this area, because I consider that only planning for reforms in the economy is insufficient. They need to be carried out. They should be carried out according to professional parameters, as specified by the profession, and also look at those in the restructuring process. Those jobs in Slovenia that are poorly paid should be restructured. One of these examples of good practice – I would like to say – is the Pomur Act, which is an example in which calls have recently been published to modernise equipment and modernise production. They were conditioned by new jobs. We expect a significant number of jobs from this. Another important thing, of course, is animation. Animation of individual departments or re-preparation of all discontinued development departments tasked with updating production, bringing new products and thus meeting all workers' expectations. However, the essence of everything is, of course, innovation, which is certainly present with us. But there's a lot of anomalies that I'll be warning myself about. Not much, because then you would take too much time, but especially the first anomaly for me is preventing work on the black and employment on the black. The Minister, along with the other ministers, will have to do so immediately. It immediately means that all parameters that prevent black work and black employment must be met. The penalties should probably be substantially increased. More priority needs to be given. That's right, the supervisory authority. Then it is necessary to anticipate in some way everything that we can do in our own direction and some other parameters. The next paradox that we found ourselves in Slovenia is that we have 114 industrial zones in Slovenia that do not have anyone who is not occupied at all. We can now understand the efforts of other ministers to stop interfering with land that is not specified. I almost don't see a real solution to what happens now to those who have invested a lot of money for these industrial zones that are alone and what happens now is that we have destroyed these lands that are needed. It is also important to say that our Slovenian economy is definitely recovering. That's what the data is. We are also going slowly in Europe and in other countries in this direction. So I would almost hope to say that the past should be left behind slowly. The past is probably just the starting point at which it is necessary to continue to build and defend innovation. Slovenia and Slovenians, especially this industrial part of this is truly innovative. We have many examples of excellent companies and patents that we have in Slovenia and are unused. That's what you need to build on. But it needs to be built on people. We have just decided that in Slovenia we must have a well-educated cadre, which will help us to move a little higher in the future along these scales that you talked about today. Maybe another little parable. Perhaps it is true that a person is simply so capable of seeing himself in the most beautiful light. But the ratings that fell today are too high. Which means we've got plenty of castes so we can have lots of castes. The conditions given today are unacceptable. There's no big deal, and there's no big deal. But they could be full of crap if they did something different. After all, there are always others, not you, who allow themselves to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u35	Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u36	Nice greetings, Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Nice greeting also to the two secretaries of state who were before, I think, mistakenly released by one of our colleagues. Today we are talking about the replacement of the fifth minister in this government, and I myself estimate that these exchanges have been almost a third of the Slovenian government this year and a half too much, and it would be better if we did not deal with these issues in the National Assembly. I am pleased, however, that we have come to terms with the situation, which, for such or other reasons, led Minister Lahovnik to resign, in the appointment of the new Minister of Economic Affairs, more quickly than we have been with the Minister of Agriculture, where we have been looking for candidates for two months. I think every one of them is inappropriate. From this point of view, I think it is good that this city, which is needed for Slovenia, is filled before holidays and that someone who has already worked in the government can take this responsible function into his own hands as soon as possible and also implement the measures that are certainly necessary at this Ministry and in Slovenia. The Ministry of Economy is an extremely important ministry, creating a supportive environment for the Slovenian economy. What a variety of different calls, which are both from the state, are said to be our funds, as well as from the resources that come back to us from Europe, is through this ministry. In particular, the guidelines provided by this Ministry in the long run are well marked by the direction of Slovenia. In the past, there have been some successful calls for tourism and more. I hope that the tenders that are now in preparation or are just ahead of the call for proposals will have real economic centres, enough happy hands, happy hands in this context, too, that we are aware that the regional component in Slovenia is very necessary and that we will not get another such call as has already been made in higher education, where the funds have concentrated only in central Slovenia and thus effectively prevented the more equitable development of Slovenia. I think that Slovenians and Slovenians expect a lot from this call, different environments, and industries are also expecting, and I really want to know what this call will be. I hope it's okay. Other areas such as the financial environment, the SID Bank and similar instruments and foreign investment, investment, support to foreign investors, economic diplomacy are very important areas. That is why I really want the Minister to have a happy hand in this work. The Ministry of Economy is also very important because it manages an important part of Slovenian property, which is mainly in the field of energy. I am thinking of the basic infrastructure, over which in most European countries the country has quite a strong hand over it, even in ownership structures. However, in most European countries it is decided that this necessary infrastructure is only to a large extent owned or at least owned by the majority. Even in Slovenia, my belief in happiness is still the same today. In this area, however, there is a whole range of turbulence activities that have been taking place recently. I hope that this or in the national energy programme, but above all in the ministry's own activities, will be a few things that have been hanging in the air for an unnecessary period of time. At last January's meeting, I myself asked a question from the Prime Minister, whom you also considered to be weighty enough that the debate on the development of energy in Slovenia in the National Assembly was then also held. Last January's questions were raised: Are there any changes in the environment that emerged from the global economic crisis by falling prices, falling consumption, adopting an energy-environment package that Europe has just adopted, guidance and activities in Slovenia on the right track? Is it possible to think carefully and then to adjust the steps? Regrettably, some thorough reflection did not take place at the beginning of the year last year, but some thorough reflections, as well as some deviations, reveal a year and a half after that. I'm afraid we've missed a lot at the time, and maybe we've taken some more steps in the wrong direction. I hope the Minister will have sufficient determination in this matter. From her presentation yesterday on the Committee on the Economy, it was clear that she had not dealt with this area in the past, that it was clearly the domain of the former Minister and also the Director of the Energy Directorate. However, I think that at the Ministry of Economic Affairs in the future, a number of moves will have to be carefully considered. These are matters related to the burdens that come to this area. 70 million is a new burden for renewable resources. We encourage resources such as photovoltaics, around which they stopped these subsidies in Spain, because it has been found that the eight-fold energy price is only too expensive, that there is a whole flow of interest as well as technology to some third countries. I think there's been a lot of work done on renewables in this area over the past year. In my profound belief, there is a limit to where this source can go. I think that the issues related to the exploitation of water potential related to the exploitation of wood biomass, geothermal energy, those to which Slovenia should pay more attention, develop its technologies and also sell knowledge with developed technologies. In many of these areas, however, these technologies have been developed in the past. As a result of the budget adopted by the new excise policy, where the Slovenian electricity industry, which receives 460 million electricity, is under a new burden of 120 million excise duty, I think this is a path in some direction of a non-competitive country, of non-competitive energy, because there will be pressure on the price, and on the other hand, on the other hand, an economy that is so much pressure, especially in energy intensive industries, such as the paper industry and the like, which will simply not be able to survive it. There's also CO2 on the march. Energy will pay a lot of money, so I think things need to be taken seriously. However, while there has been no serious consideration in the past, these things also speak of my notions of uncontrolled moves, such as the transfer of shares from Drava power plants to holding, as far as the share of the hydroelectric power plant at the Lower Sava is concerned, as I hear in the last days of the stopped expectation that it is only one energy pillar, it is said, that the Gen energy takes a set of profits to leave others. I think that kind of policy is kind of working in energy. It is also possible that even the legitimate demands of individuals, the reimbursement of certain energy resources, are making this a nuisance. I therefore recommend that the Minister think carefully about this area and also get a broader view of it. For I am sure that in the last year and a half in this area many mistakes have been made, which we will also pay Slovenia and Slovenia in the future by establishing the economy as uncompetitive. As another point I would like to stress, it is also likely that the job of the Minister of Economy is to put the economy back at the forefront of a social event, to make the economy and the economy in Slovenia such that the domestic owners of businesses are happy to invest at home, that they will not seek opportunities abroad, and that, after all, honest and entrepreneurs in this society will be respected, wanted citizens and citizens, and that we do not make any mistakes, which even the former Minister may have at times made, to some populism, demagogies and ultimately to the destruction of the economicalists, the owners of capital. Without these and without some healthy economic policy, in which honest and successful entrepreneurs will be appreciated, we are in very poor shape in the country of Slovenia. Here I think it is the duty of the Minister to, together with the Chamber of Commerce and other associations, ensure that the deviation in the economy is eliminated if it is happening and, at the second stage, that it also gives economic operators the place and the validity that comes with them in society. The role of the Minister of Economy will certainly be important to ensure that public use in Slovenia is also moderate. In Slovenia we are approaching 50% of GDP, which means that public spending is significantly too high. If we don't do something to make this public spending move closer to 40 or 40 as soon as possible, 42 is the expert's assessment that it's the right number, we're going to do what's happening to us now, we're going to use about a quarter of those public funds that we don't produce that we don't create, that's what credit arrangements say, and that's not going anywhere in the long run. There's two sweats. On the one hand, encourage economic activity so that this contribution to the public consumption provided by the economy will also be increased. On the other hand, it is likely that during this transitional period it will also tighten the belts and cross this period with some sound public finances. Not by what happens to us that we now raise debt year after year, but by reducing the country's credit rating. After all, interest will represent almost 10% of all taxes collected in the short term. Such an economy and such a society will not be able to function for a long time. I think it will also be important for the Minister to play a role in the reforms needed in society. These are not grateful reforms. The whole of Europe is practical or in many countries people are on the road when it comes to pension, labour and health reform. I think that here, in addition to the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Minister of Public Administration will have to defend some reforms, to find the appropriate measure on the one hand, on the other hand, of social awareness, and also of sustainable public finances, and in particular to encourage economic activity, so that we can live better in this country in the future. Do not resort to short-term measures that will lead the country to a very unenviable situation within a few years. I also expect an important role from the Minister in areas such as: the financial sector, the Ljubljana Bank, the Insurance Office of Triglav. These are not matters that are only in the financial domain. But I think the economy depends largely on what the structure of ownership in these institutions will be. That's why I think we need some team part of this government's economic work here. In this part, I really expect an effect from her. The Minister has the support of the National Assembly. I think it's as well that she'll be elected today. I wish her a successful job, because if the economic minister succeeds, Slovenia will also succeed. I think we all want a successful Slovenia together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u37	Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Hello, everyone! I, too, would like to begin by thanking the Minister of Economy, Dr Matthew Lahovnik, for his cooperation and work with the National Assembly, which is also with us. Ms. Magh's candidate. I'll support Radić's gifts. The reasons why you should support the mag. Radic, already presented in the introduction by the President of the Government, presented the report and the views of the groups of Members. In addition to all of this, an additional argument for me is the fact that the economic sector will be run by a lady who comes from practically this operation. So, from the operational work, from practice, experience and forward to the management of the economic resource. There was also something about the experience, the knowledge of the economy. Tourism is certainly one of the areas that has an important impact on the further development of both Slovenia and the economy. On the other hand, there are areas within the Ministry of Economy that I believe are mags. We can get to know Radic in two years. I think we've had this opportunity here in the National Assembly many times. That it was often the one who, instead of the Minister, represented changes in legislation and that such knowledge should no longer be a problem or a problem for the Magi. Work. At the same time, it is certainly interesting that, in addition to her experience and practice in the field of direct work in this department, she also had the opportunity to work in theory, i.e. in the transfer of theoretical knowledge. I am sure that knowledge and experience from practice were also very important at the time. Of course, her determination, her energy, her ambition and, as some have already said, her courage are certainly needed in any such decision, which I believe was not easy. However, if there are ambitions, if this energy and drive are the end of support, then there is nothing to be afraid of. I'm sure even in the case of her candidacy, my colleague Kampush spoke earlier about the castes. I myself have found several times, when I think about the work and cooperation of the Ministry of the Economy, that I also see the further work of the Ministry of Economy in addition to the Government, the Cabinet of the President of the Government to a greater extent than that which will be the link between the other ministries. Indeed, what has already been mentioned is certainly the cooperation of the Ministry of Economy with the Ministry of Finance. And I can see why it matters. Definitely in connection with banks or financial institutions, including leasing companies and others. In particular, to ensure that the economy receives the necessary investment and other financial resources when it needs them for further development or start-up of production, and then to a greater extent, it can revive a certain operation. I would like to give myself an example of the integration of the economy with politics, a good example, where I believe that the Ministry of Economy itself should be more involved in the future, in addition to the Cabinet of the President of the Government and the President himself. When it came to the problem of the lower leg of the highway, the economy was directly involved: Revoz, Krka. The Chamber of Commerce of Dolenjska and White Krajina appealed to the competent ministries. I believe that only the Ministry of Economy should be more involved here. And in the future, also in connection with developmental eights, perhaps even at the time of the previous government, as some of the colleagues were talking about castes. The clusters were certainly full at a time of high economic growth. It is my regret that when these clusters have been filled and are still being filled in some proportion, not as large as in the past by the economy, by large companies. In the previous week, 14 days ago there were talks about the two biggest Slovenian exporters – Krki and Revoz, how successful and so on. I regret that, not only during the time of this government, but also the previous governments, or more previous governments, have not given an important place to this economy by linking the Ministry of Economy with the Ministry of Environment and Space, with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Transport. Why am I talking about this? Even today, Novo mesto and these largest companies in the export sector do not have a carriageway, they do not have a quality transport link from the New Town to the motorway section. Perhaps the Ministry of Economy in the past or so far has not taken the necessary steps. The national motorway programme was adopted in 2007. At that time some important connections of some major Slovenian cities were even included, not Novo Mesto, where these two biggest exporters are. Everything else has turned on, and that's what's forgotten. I would be sorry if there were no representatives from the area of Dolenjska and Posavje. I'd be sorry. But since the people were then in the National Assembly, because they were then people from these areas in the Government, I'm sorry that this wasn't pointed out. I am really sorry, and I expect the Minister of Economy to be here in all other areas of Slovenia – I am more easily talking about the area where I come from. However, I am sure that this brilliance, as well as the obedience of the economy, is more necessary. It is not enough for the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Industry to include and attend meetings at the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Transport and the other ministries. It is only right that this aid is carried out by the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Economy. I think it would be the same. I have also now, as a member of Parliament in two years in large part, learned the structure of action. I think I see an important opportunity here. Let me tell you, this week, when I talked to the economists, their expectations are that the Ministry of the Economy is even more involved here. I believe that Mrs Darja Radic, a person who can listen here, will also show a great deal of listening and that all that will prove necessary in economic societies, as a problem, is whether it is in the area of finance, financing aid or other resources, namely agriculture, both change of destination, the placement of motorways, railways and others, or something else, that aid will be shown here, including the acquisition of European funds and the integration of all other ministries. Surely this is the task of the government, as well as of the individual ministry. Like I said before, mag. I will definitely support Darjo Radic today as Minister of Economy. This year, when the time of local elections is again, there are 210 municipalities in Slovenia and only seven of us are women – the mayor. I am pleased that at the appointment of the Prime Minister of the Government on 7 November and later of the ministerial team – I remember – there were five ministers at the beginning. I am pleased that we will again have five ministers, i.e. five women in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as was the case at the beginning of this government's mandate. I believe that it is just and fair, as my colleague said, with regard to discrimination or equality, in this government, I hope it is not to be feared.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u39	Tom Mencinger has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I know Darjo Radic. I also know its operation from the early 1990s, and let this be today in different fields, either politically or businessally. I am convinced that the experience of Darje Radic in tourism, construction, public administration and education is welcome in leading such an important ministry as the Ministry of Economy. In addition, this work will require a lot of tolerance and, as some speakers have mentioned, a lot of negotiations and coordination with different ministries. We all know that it is a global crisis, which mainly affects the financial and economic spheres. In this, I can say that I see Slovenia in particular as an opportunity in the markets of the European Union and in the global world, the opportunity of Slovenia as a small one. I think this has also proved to be a global success in sport. I am sure that there is room here and in the economic field for such success. Above all, in a small economy, a small economy and, of course, a medium economy. To achieve this, it is necessary to create conditions and an appropriate environment, whether at the state level or at the local level. Be made available through spatial documentation, through energy equipping of these surfaces and, above all, to all these things, appropriate legislation must be the basis. Darjo Radic has a lot of work to do. In particular, the area of economic centres could be highlighted. The predecessors have already mentioned and let me say that the data of Japan, which is the latest data, speak of 2,589 hectares of area in 117 zones that are unused, but are formulated and defined as zones. I actually see a lot of work to get these things recorded right away and figure out why these zones and these surfaces didn't come back to life. Gorenska lost the minister recently, gets a new minister. That is why we are very happy, especially the upper part of Gorenjska. By congratulating her on this occasion. It is also supported by me, and through all this debate, which has been in the National Assembly until now, we can practically see that it has support, whether it is the opposition or the coalition. However, I might conclude that in the future I would like to see absolutely fewer extraordinary political meetings in the National Assembly and, above all, extraordinary meetings in the area of the rescue of Slovenia, the resolution of the Slovenian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u41	Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I believe that candidate Mrs. Radiceva is listening to us. However, I feel that, given what any Member expects of her, I will not say any expectations that there should be any good fairy or goldfish, we could compare it, but that is not how it works. She's gonna be a member of some team that's a bad team, and she's not gonna be able to operate outside this team. Regardless of her abilities, I must say that somehow the history of this government, including the previous governments, shows very clearly that it is not necessary for those who are publicly recognized political personalities and strong personalities or anything else to be a good minister. Very often it turns out that those who are less famous are later even better ministers. In this context, I can only wish her a successful job during her term of office. But there is something to be said. I am disturbed by some debates, so I will respond to them, because I have already done so many times. The time of fat cows and so on and so forth. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you have been in power until 2004 and never before 2004, with the exception of the four months of the Bajuk government, have you created any plus. From 1990 to 2004, minus four Bajuk months, you created from year to year minus. Today, you claim that a government called the Janša government, which was in power from 2004 to 2008, has not left you with enough gratification. Yeah, of course, she settled that minus you created in sixteen years. She settled it first. And in the end, she left you some little plus, not one, but all the state cash registers. In all the state cash registers. Of course, economic growth between 2004 and 2008 – I guess this is the fifth time I'm going to say it — did not come as bad as the day after tomorrow or as bad weather. For good economic growth, something has to be done. But it is true that from 2004 to 2008, we have tried to take advantage of the global market conjuncture and to accelerate already such solid economic growth. That worked relatively well for us. Europe was at three and a few percent at the time, and Slovenia was at five, at least, up to 7%. Also in 2008, we ended up with 3.5% of GDP plus, when some countries such as Germany already recorded a minus. But I repeat, that's why we had to work. Mrs Radiceva, of course, does not have good conditions in this area. Maybe she would – I listened to what she said at the presentation yesterday. She was talking about economic hardships and so on, more economic growth and so on, which is fine. Only these views belong to the right governments. These views have never been understood, nor will they ever be understood in the left - hand governments. Left governments tend to take care of social services. That's right, but to a certain extent they're not interested in the economy at all. Nothing at all. Other cases such as the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia prove this. However, Slovenia is perhaps the most pronounced example. It is really hard to listen to some people who talk about how unnecessary meetings are, because you can adopt laws at regular sessions, but accept them at regular sessions rather than not accept them. A few words about Mr. Lakhovnik. Anyway, it's more of a sociology phenomenon for any sociological experts. I do not recall that by the economic ministry, since the system of this country is such, there are some very important laws in this mandate, but the minister was at the top of his popularity. It is also true that this minister is in some way an economic minister at the same time, and then we expect too much of him because he is heavily dependent on the finance minister. Indeed, these two constitute an economic and financial team, and these two can, with proper measures, draw the country out of the crisis it is in, of course, with the support of the Government. That is why it is very difficult for the Minister of Economy himself, without the support of the Minister of Finance and the understanding of the Minister of Finance, to do what must be done, to do what is successful. This government, especially the finance minister of this government, doesn't understand anything. I will say this very simplisticly so that you can understand, of course the numbers can be approximate, the numbers cannot be accurate, but they can be approximated due to easier understanding. If you have, if you have a businessman with 100 employees lower taxes by 1,000 euros, you have a thousand euros less in the state treasury, this entrepreneur will not buy a boat and a ship, and I don't know what. In principle, this entrepreneur will expand production and employ three workers. When he employs three workers, those three workers will represent a plus in the state treasury because the state treasury will not pay social support. Plus, she'll have a state cash register when these workers start paying taxes. But this left government has never understood, not only Slovenian, nor any other. First, you have to give the entrepreneur a minus on taxes. This one will be employed and the state treasury will be filled. But we don't have that understanding, and it probably won't. I believe that Mrs Radiceva understands this, but I also believe that she will remain misunderstood. But, of course, I want her to have a lot of success at work. I will do the same as the parliamentary group — you are responsible for its election and I will not oppose it myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u43	Mr. Anton Anderlich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u44	As usual at any point, it is also today that we are discussing everything and the very long period of time that has taken place at that time. And some are already predicting how it's going to be. But today we have the appointment of the Minister of Economy. The report prepared by colleagues in the Committee on the Economy clearly shows that the support was uniform and that no one objected to the fact that the presentation was appropriate. I am aware that the debate on the candidate/candidature for a minister when there is a change in the government cannot reflect the whole debate on all the problems concerning the Government concerning the state concerning individual ministers and so on. Not even the full programme of the Minister's work in a particular area. This also applies to Mr Radic, for he is entering the work in the middle of the mandate, so to speak. It enters work when the government's programs are already under way. For it is not possible to expect the Government to set itself any programme differently than to make priorities at the beginning of the mandate, to make future programmes and also to implement this programme. True, everyone in his place can give his mark and also give it, or good, bad. This is then assessed by those who are up to it, especially voters and voters after the end of their term of office. That's why I don't want to give the Minister any instructions, give guidance, what I want to do, make it better in my environment for all of us to be better. But I want her to have conditions and at least as much support as you have by not objecting to the opposition's appointment. It is a bit incorrect and it is also wrong to place the National Assembly in the role of a divided body, where some part is responsible for doing good things in this country. This is a position, and the opposition alone, that, if only it can, where something is happening, but not that this assembly is understood, as it should be understood when these relations were different, that the legislative branch of power, which consists of 90 Members and Members of Parliament, is only different. One is those on the side of the ruling coalition, because it was put in place at the beginning of the mandate, and the other are carrying out the opposition's responsibilities. There is nothing wrong with finding a common denominator or whatever you call it, and it would be right, especially when it comes to certain common things. I am convinced that this result of yesterday's Committee on the Economy can be understood as a concern of all of us to get the Minister as soon as possible and to know as little as possible the Minister's departure. I do not think that it is possible to understand the greatest popularity and media support of any person, some political figure, that this is the same as the most successful work in the field covered either within the Government or within the entire policy. These things are obviously of different value, for things are such that, on one occasion, problems occur in another area. It's very difficult to understand if the best minister is leaving. It is best because last week or this week he was the first on the popular scale in Slovenia in one of the media. It just doesn't work. What circumstances have led to this [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] the second or the first, but I still argue that you can't make an equation, that because the first or second one on the scale was the best or the second best, but that a set of circumstances on one side considered it the most popular, because the discussions I'm listening to here are contradictory. [[...]] On the one hand, you say how the best minister has gone and on the other hand you say that everything is wrong in the field of the economy and that the measures the Government should take in this area are not. How are we supposed to explain this to each other now? [[...]] Yeah, wait, I've heard here that you've never been around in the last 20 years except for the last four years. And I know that at least the SDS continued for the first four or six years, from 1990 to 1994, and between 2000 and so on. But today we don't have this job here to do a balance sheet for 18 years. Let's say we support this candidacy or not. I say that we will because they sat on the Committee for a long time yesterday because the presentation was appropriate, we have a report and I have no reason not to believe this report. The second question is whether it would really not make sense to change the way ministers are appointed, ministers, which has also been discussed for a long time. You have also proposed a constitutional change to this topic in the previous term. I'll support the appointment proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u45	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The economic sector is especially at this time of crisis a resort that requires an expert who will be able to take our economy to a stable and export Slovenian economy, which is in some ways also the goal of the exit strategy. It is necessary to build on new jobs and less on social transfers, which in many cases have also hampered the interest of employment and self-employment. More time, energy and money will have to be invested in the development of a small economy. This will especially prove to be true when a little work is done. A good example is Germany, where little work has increased more than three times in recent years. I would not say what needs to be improved in the area of the economy, because the guidelines for improvement are designed and will need to be followed through the time ahead and gradually implemented. I believe that the candidate does not lack the knowledge and will to achieve her goals. For at a time when she was a secretary of state, she met with all the obstacles that only those who have knowledge and are determined enough to achieve her goals can overcome. In a way, you're lucky she landed and pulled you out of the conundrum. But I certainly do not agree that the boat leaves the one responsible and responsible to lead with all responsibility to the goal. Why is it necessary to replace someone who is capable and expert? Why does being a customer always prevail? It's becoming increasingly clear that it doesn't matter whether you're an expert or you're a resource master. All that matters is that you're the right color. As I have already said, this is a very responsible and important area where the responsible Minister must have a vision and a sense of dialogue with all the other resources that are somehow linked to the economy. We can't afford that the ministries don't work in sync. Because in a situation like this, we get what the media reminds us of every day. In short, the candidate certainly has sufficient experience and knowledge and does not need introductory time, which is undoubtedly positive and the advantage that the economy does not stop and in this time of crisis makes the situation worse. I have no doubt that there is no support in the coalition and that it will be confirmed. That's why I want her to do well in her new job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u47	Mr. Just Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Let me start by saying that I'm going to be a candidate for Minister of the Magnificent Economy. Darjo Radic supported it. I think the government's proposal for a new minister is good. Also because he's a magician. Darja Radic has worked as Secretary of State so far. This means that the other person was a ministry and will therefore be able to immediately take up a job without any knowledge or introduction in a new job, which anyone who would come to the post of Minister or Minister from outside would need. The economic sector also includes mining or, more specifically, closing mines. Perhaps it would be more appropriate for the closing mines to belong to the Ministry of Environment and Space. However, this is certainly an issue which is an extremely interdepartmental matter. In addition to economic and environmental issues, at least the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Culture, let me list the resources involved. I will continue to focus on the problem of closing the Idrija mercury mine, which, with its 510 years of history and with nearly half a thousand years of operation, was the world's second largest mercury mine. It is no coincidence, therefore, that the half - thousand - year - old heritage of the Idrija mine is waiting for entry on the prestigious World Heritage List at Unesco. The programme to prevent the consequences of mining in the mercury mine Idrija was developed in 1986 and completed in 1995 and 2001. The closing works were planned to be completed by the end of 2006. The injection was delayed and will not be completed until this year. The 1986 programme already provided that due to specific geomechanical conditions, the mine could not be completely closed and that part over the fourth horizon would have to be continuously maintained and drained. However, monitoring of works carried out should also be carried out after the closures have been completed. In 2008, a programme was developed and approved for the maintenance of the bulky part of the cave and for the monitoring of finished closures for the period 2008 to 2012. However, while maintenance and monitoring will continue to be carried out, the conditions for the liquidation of the company, as provided for in Article 12 of the Law on the Prevention of the Effects of Mining in the Living Silver Mine of Idria, would only be fulfilled after the injection has been completed. Why did Minister Lahovnik decide to send the mine to liquidation in December last year? I don't understand. His decision was unprofessional and premature. Despite the liquidation of the company, as provided for in the law, it will be necessary to keep the part of the pit un watered and monitor until the measurements show that the movement of the land above the mine has been completely stopped. In order to preserve knowledge and highly qualified jobs, the above-mentioned document adopted a position to establish a new company, or public institution, simultaneously with the liquidation of the current company, which would also include the operation of the mercury information and research centre. The establishment of such a centre has already been planned in the programme of maintenance of the bulky part of the cave and monitoring after completed closures for the period until 2012, adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 26 April 2007, it is said, three years ago. The Regulation amending and supplementing the Regulation on the Conversion of Mercury Mines provides in Article 2 that one of the activities for which this company was established is also a research activity related to mercury, and education and public awareness regarding the reduction of the environmental consequences of mercury pollution. It has also been established that this activity is carried out by a company within a specific internal organisational unit. On 21 June 2008, on the basis of the decisions of the Government and laid down in the Regulation, the Idrija formally established the International Live Silver Information Research Centre. Let me say that yesterday Idrija was visited by the President and Executive Director of the Monique Barbut Foundation for the World Environment, who supported the operation of such a centre. Not just that. She said she had [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u49	Mr Bevk, we can draw your attention to the debate on the Minister!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u50	I'm talking about a project that wasn't implemented under the leadership of the former minister. I would like to make a substantive point of what awaits the new Minister in this position, that this project also [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u51	She's got a lot ahead of her, but... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u52	For she said that, in the context of the forthcoming negotiations on the text of the World Convention on Mercury, Idrija could move to the headquarters of the World Centre for Mercury. [[...]] Such a centre is also in the interest of this government, it should certainly be, and also of this one, where, according to a variety of circumstances, the problem of the Idrija mercury mine lies. In view of the fact that my intervention was really a little more specific, I would still like to read another unrealised decision from the Government, which will have to be implemented during the Minister of Mag's ministry. Darje Radic, in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, emphasise, in cooperation with the Ministry of the Economy, the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Finance and the local community within four months, that is, before the re-decision of the UNESCO World Heritage Committee on the registration of the serial intercontinental combination of mercury and silver on the list of the world heritage from the source for the programme of comprehensive management of cultural and natural heritage in Idrija, including the proposal on the most appropriate organisational form of the administrator and submit them to the Government. This decision has been adopted by the Government and is also committed by the Ministry of the Economy to implement it and has not yet been implemented within these seven months. I hope that the competent ministry, together with the Culture Ministry, will draw up this decision and put it on the government by the end of this month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u53	Mr. Franci Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. There's another piece about Mrs. Radits. I'm going to support the candidate, given that I think she's a suitable candidate and she's going to be a good minister. It's supported by both the coalition and our client, really. Nor did the opposition feel any opposition in the Committee yesterday. But I put it on her heart not to ignore the environmental aspect of energy. The environmental aspect is a long-term investment. If we can only think for a short time about energy, we must also think about the economy and also about the tourism that the future minister is giving us, think about in a sustainable way, and be aware of what all environmental mistreatment can bring us.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u55	Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Well-welcome members of the government! Colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that, of course, I will be happy to support the candidate for Minister of Economy. There's not a lot of reason. Last but not least, like me, all members of Parliament have had the opportunity to learn from work and various tasks, how and how the arguments and preparation of certain materials have been handled. I am pleased that Mrs Radic has worked in various areas, in particular in the area which will be very important in this mandate and during this period, and this is an important solution to the problem of construction. We know that construction is in a major crisis. In the crisis, not only because of the global recession, but also because of possible inadequate issues, in particular with regard to the legislative basis for solving some of the problems in this area. Because this area knows, I believe and I hope, as someone has said today, that as a good fairy it will meet all the expectations that have been expressed on the Committee on the Economy and today, and will know with much optimism and energy it has, and will resolve this Gordy knot in the field of labour relations as well as in the area of economic law and the resolution of all possible problems created by the chain of straw companies. I believe and hope that this work will go as well as addressing the issue of tourism. Today, no one has said that Slovenia is one of the few countries that has not suffered a fall in tourism during these difficult times of recession and crisis and that tourism is the only sector that has grown in one way or another during this period. This is said to have been in one way well and harmoniously distributed, the supportive environment that it created during one period of its career. It also demonstrated how subtle and harmonious it is also capable of regionalizing and finding regional opportunities for all the possible parts of Slovenia. Because we know how and how this concept was resolved. I believe mainly that she will be able to contact all other ministers in the government. In particular with the Minister of Finance, as the Institute of Tax Policy will of course be very important during this period, how and how to actually stimulate those parts of the construction and other sectors that they are. I believe that, as she said on the Committee on the Environment, she will understand and study the energy sector, which will be very topical during this period. Not only because of the legislation and strategy that will be adopted, but also because of investments, when in this short period only one way will be decided on all possible options, how and how. Its sense of sustainable development, I hope that it will also be through renewable energy sources, and the action plan, which we will also have to confirm in this House, will show how and how it deals with environmental problems and how it feels. The energy it has, and this is certainly positive, will in fact show that women can do far more, and especially in crisis situations, when some may withdraw from difficult and important decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u57	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! The decomposition process of this government is continuing. Today we have a model patching of this boat, which, of course, is sinking and will probably continue to sink. I'd like to say hello to the candidate lady here, too. Unfortunately, we still have this pointless Rules of Procedure in force at the time of the LDS' greatest insufferability, which, when they thought they were in power for eternity and would actually appoint ministers with decrees, we do not need to confront Members with them and so on. But good luck. [[Incomprehensible]] It's all flowing and it is, the LDS with Zares has already run out practically. There are also many things moving in the economic field. You might as well say here. And yet it's like, "Pur you're a moo." For today, some of the tycoons you have raised in the past are already in the past, some are becoming the past, but unfortunately they also helped sink the Slovenian ark. This is also a problem in this area. Look, this government, this government doesn't do anything. Why? It seems that this government and coalition still do not realize that good ministers are needed permanently. Why not? We had a good economic minister, an eloquent, lucid acquaintance. But at the moment he shuddered at the scourge of corruption, of financial fraud, of conflict of interest, he had to go away, not those who were a fertilizing creature. No, no, that part of the government's defiled part had to be protected, and the minister had to resign practically at the moment. Because it has pointed to major problems and a great deal of exhaustion of Slovenian public finances and economies at the expense of the richness of some. We now confirm the candidate for the new minister. Ma'am mag. Darja Radic was a good technologist. I'll admit it to her. I've listened to her several times. She was technically in her post. I'd like her to develop into a good minister, and I want her to. But it seems to me that she is going into an environment where she will be responsibly responsible, where she can hardly succeed, where she will lose a good technocrat, probably even because the environment of this government will condition her. Look, Mr President of the Government said earlier that she wanted the candidate, as an economic minister, to encourage the transformation of the atmosphere in which we are. The idea is to reward the winners so that the winners in the economic field will be respected in society. Yeah, I don't know if Mr. Pahor's moving. So far, who were the winners?Oh, my God! Who were they pointing at on TV?Oh, my God! Yes, because it is not in this mandate that the real investment policy is developing an economy that has developed new productions with natural growth. No, the winner is Ljubljana Mayor Jankovic. He's a real manager, he takes the county as a management, and that's the winner of that power. And the winner now needs an additional EUR 200 million for his projects, where calls have to be made and I don't know what will bring this country back to ruin. Mrs Radiceva has no opportunity with such mentality and such a philosophy of this government to encourage the winners. Winners, for example, Mr Boscarol, the former government has put in various supervisory worlds, an economic world. No, I assure you in this mandate - some of the most important supervisory functions in state banks are named by the rule that the wolves responsible for the largest transmissions of state money will be kept by the sheep. I guarantee from experience. It's the philosophy of that government. And it was said earlier from Mrs Flower Orazam that there were inconsistencies in property matters, inadequacy in property matters came to the fore. This tycoon privatisation, it's for a party really inconvenient. For them it is not a mortal sin, but an inadequacy and with such knowledge and view of what has been happening, the candidate, the economic minister has no opportunity, although Mr Golobič has apparently given it, but it has to be said that I will deviate from the Lakhovnik philosophy that the law must be respected. Yesterday she said she'd be under the law. Yes, only such a concept of laws as they have in Zares, then adapt to such laws, thus interpreting laws, then it is not possible to do so for the benefit of the state. These inconsistencies according to the client's philosophy Ares; otherwise, great irregularities in management acquisitions and approval of credits. This inadequacy is that we have again before us the rehabilitation of banks where money was sent to these heroes through transitions. We in this country have missed ten years of development, investment in development at the expense of these loans and this takeover of businesses. Your LDS predecessor has been in power forever, of course. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u59	Can we calm down? Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u60	It is quite clear, Mr Kramar has been the director of the largest bank, where they have been lending. You know that's where Mr. Golobič set him up. The answers are very clear who was the financial oligarchy in the country for the whole period. The answers are very clear. We missed 10 years of development. Madam candidate, as far as I was following, of course, she did not say anything about the development of new products and new materials. If Slovenians do not develop new products, new technologies, new materials, then we can forget that we will be a factor in the field of economy, knowledge transfer, technology. Maybe someone will say we have another ministry, the Dove. Yeah, he's really investing in the Netherlands, in some companies, that's what he's holding. Those technologies are such that they usually eat our money and don't invest it. Financial technology is how to transfer budget money somewhere. I was most disturbed by the fact that this development of new products has not been said by any new technology. I went to listen to Mrs Radic about a month and a half ago when the client really had a session in Slovenian Bistrica and then they abused the club of directors and the Chamber of Commerce and called the directors. Ms Radiceva also spoke about these economic centres, where it is for the invitation to tender. In Slovenian Bistrica, we have a perfect programme of highly technologically developed aluminium products because we have this industry there. This is the future. And we're involved in this economic centre, this is Alurek. After asking specific questions, everything is ready, only the state should step forward, she realized that Alurek would probably not come under this government, he succeeded in the calls because the money was already reserved in projects like "ala Stožice". Therefore, I fear that Mrs Radiceva, despite all her abilities, I recognise them, I say that she is a solid technocrat and has the opportunity to develop herself into a good economic minister, but because of her mentality, because of the way in which the centres of power from the outside decide and now they are taking the propaganda forward before the elections, there is no way to succeed as a good economy minister. But if she does, she'll have to go like Mr. Lahovnik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u61	Mr. Janez Fishich. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Dearly-reverred present, well-welcome! We have already heard a great deal about the candidate for Minister today, and we have also heard a lot about Minister Lahovnik, who has resigned. He resigned because he wanted and sacrificed himself to show Slovenia what should not be happening in this government. I'm concerned about other areas, values. If we know that the comprehensive economic crisis is mainly a consequence of the moral crisis, we know that, because of the breakdown of universal values, individuals with higher ethical principles are plunged into depression and do not want to give birth to young people without an ethical compass and do not know how to go through life with honesty or deception, education and hard work or abuse and crime, when they are disappointed looking for emergency exits in alcohol, drugs, various forms of miscarriage. When we know all of this, we are forced to conclude that the last moment for a new practice is to respect values. We must not allow reality to be shaped by individuals who are willing to lie for their own benefit. That's what one of the government's top representatives does. Such a policy should set an example for young people. Wrong world. Shame on him! But with the Prime Minister, such people still enjoy support. That's what I'm worried about. I am concerned that the proposed candidate will have to act on the direction of someone else from the background, so the President of the Government should cut this agony. Otherwise, next time it's his turn to switch. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will not object to the appointment of mags. Darje Radic as Minister of Economy, because we are ready to help solve the economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u63	It's Mr. Miro Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye! The Prime Minister of the Government has attributed visionary work to candidate Radic. And I went to look at the dictionary of the Slovenian book language, where it says that the visionary is able to experience something that has not yet occurred in reality. Some other terms, including psychics, are also cited for the visionary. Well, we're getting a psychic in the post of Minister. I wonder where she has been so far, because with obvious abilities, this country could have long since been able to overcome all these difficulties. However, in my opinion, the candidate is more than a visionary for the virtue of obedience to her client, which is to Zares. Because it's not normal for visionary to assign time to someone except history. This is where we got our visionary on stock, already in advance. That's not very good. I must join those who are sorry that Minister Lakhovnik is leaving. He was one of the best ministers in this government. He was the one who, with his expertise, gave some counterweight to narcissism and the performance of this government. Not only did Lahovnik resist corruption and customerism within his own species, which is, of course, still a precedent or exception in Slovenian politics. In short, he followed the law that was written and confirmed by the coalition itself in the National Assembly. Because we are here alone between the four walls and because, of course, the journalists will not report it, just for our information. Many years ago, when I was a journalist, I wrote an article about the extraordinary success of my daughter and son, Irma Pavlinič Krebs. They were world champions in dancing, famous dancers. And in this interview, they told me that I couldn't dance if many Korean companies hadn't helped them. It's not a problem. The problem is that at the time Irma Pavlinič Krebs was a member of the National Assembly. She was sitting right there. She was Vice President of the National Assembly. This is not to say that the tycoons are funding an activity, whether it be Members or Ministers. But it's true that at the time Minister Krebs was in LDS, he's in Zares today. But he's really proclamating a new policy. But we know what this new policy is. The former Minister of Lahovnik drew attention to this and also warned Mr Golobic. So, a new paradigm based on corruption and clientelism and lies. But back to candidate Radits. We've heard very nice words about her. I will not support her despite all the praises she hears. Mrs Radicovo is also found in large-scale material, which I also have in my office, regarding manipulations and events around the spa of Rome's Toplice. Ms Radiceva was proposed by then Minister Kovaceva in 2003 to the Programme Council of the Rimske Toplice Medical Centre. What is interesting is that Dr. Tea Petrin strongly opposed it. Interestingly, Mrs Radičeva was then Undersecretary at the Ministry of the Economy. Apparently, Petrinova knew what was going on or what was going on around the Roman Spas and strongly opposed her appointment to the programming world. And what happened? Ms Radiceva, together with Zdenko Kovac and two others, remained a member of this programme council and accompanied all the provisions of the pre-contracts and main contracts concerning the revitalization of the spa of Rome Toplice. Tea Petrin is 20. 4. 2004 resigned from the post of Minister of Economy. At that time, he took up his first term as Minister, Mr Matej Lahovnik, not 2002 as had once been said before. And we know where that story was headed. The aim was to ensure that the entire complex of the Rimske Toplice Medical and Rehabilitation Center, along with Barsos or the late Baricevic, was obtained. Mrs Radiceva was present when the value of the Roman Spas was valued at only one euro. This valuation was later worth €750,000, and the actual value of the spa of Rome’s Toplice is several million euros. Finally, I would like to add that in the company of the Roman Terme, which today is remodeling the spa of Rome Toplice, the state or parastatal funds or companies have their share in the majority state ownership. I am afraid that with Radic's arrival at the Ministry of the Economy, this story, which began in the beginning of 2000, could end as it was then concluded. It is that this spa will pass into the hands of the narrow Slovenian Taiwanese or narrow Slovenian kleptomanian elite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u65	Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. At the time at which we are located, we can see the very great consequences of the fact that the value added money was invested in managers' buy-ins in economic programmes, not in the development of technologies and personnel in individual companies. This is why the Ministry of Economy is now extremely important in this area in order to stimulate development, new technologies and investment in staff. In such a way that this area, planned by the Ministry with very large funds, is EUR 185 million, which is available to invest in development, is certainly one of the key tasks that the candidate will have to carry out in this mandate. Here, of course, we should also highlight the fact that the economic and financial crisis has not evenly affected all areas in Slovenia, that the most affected areas, which are somehow also far from the highway cross, will also need to be set up a specific mechanism for this development of technologies and knowledge to be transferred to these environments. In fact, too much concentration in large areas alone, large centres would mean even greater differences in development in the future. On this subject, the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Agriculture and the Environment also held an important debate where we found that there are strategic raw materials and good in Slovenia. It is a wood that covers around 60% of the area of the Slovenian state. Only the establishment of local wood processing centres could mean concrete assistance in these areas and, of course, the recovery of the economy and technological development. It therefore seems to me that it will be extremely important for the conclusions adopted at the joint meeting of these committees to be reviewed in detail and, of course, to be included in the further work of the Ministry of the Economy in particular. If we add that, of course, logistic centres for renewable energy can also be established in these centres, focusing on the processing of wood and wood biomass, we can talk about the fact that we can really survive much more from this strategic raw material in the future than we can today, when we find that we are actually importing the most quality products from abroad, that these products are made from Slovenian wood. All of this, I think, is one of the most important tasks that this ministry will have to carry out together with other departments. However, it seems to me that the wood-processing industry is the one that was somehow forgotten or under-exposed during this period because it is in extremely serious trouble. This is one of those industries that we must encourage to a greater extent than has been observed so far. Since the Minister's candidate is very well aware of all this area, of course I expect that we will do very much with our collective powers, so that these logistics centres across Slovenia are established for the processing of wood and that equipment for what we have, but not for something that we can get from the outside, and perhaps at some point also pay dearly. This direction seems to me that the one Slovenia needs most right now is rational, effective and especially long-term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u67	Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the representatives of the Government and, of course, all fellow Members and Members! I will very briefly support the candidate for Minister Darjo Radic. I'll back her up for one simple reason. Having shown determination, it has shown a great deal of knowledge and, finally, the Committee on the Economy is composed of all the parties in this Parliament and it has received 100% support there. Any other way of thinking would, in my view, be unnecessary handing over matters about Mrs Radic. Above all, we are talking about the Minister on whom we will vote today. I read something about Mrs. Candidate. I was particularly delighted by her attitude towards certain segments of this ministry, which she will lead. In other words, I would just like to say something in terms of tourism. I come from the coast of Kopra, Slovenia, where tourism can be developed much better than it has been developed so far. Fortunately, tourists come alone. What great efforts have so far not been made. She also found this in one of her statements. Because tourism is slowly and steadily expanding to the interior and not so massively to the shores, to concrete, to the beaches, the Slovenian Istria is very, very suitable for the development of such tourism in the interior, where, of course, these trends occur in all these Mediterranean countries. As it is said, Slovenian Istria is one of those who can offer much. At this point, however, it may or may not be possible to do so. Why did I like her statement? I'll read it. She stressed that Slovenia has been very high on the global competitiveness scale, tourism infrastructure, due to its spending investments in recent years. However, after the effectiveness of marketing the tourist offer and the recognition of the Slovenian tourism brand, our position on the competitiveness scale is catastrophic. We're 92nd from 133 countries. The budget money has obviously not been used effectively. Who is responsible for ensuring the efficiency of marketing Slovenian tourism, we know. I like it when she told me who. At the national level, it is the Slovenian Tourism Organisation, Radic said. I like this statement because it told me what the actual situation is, who is responsible for this situation. I am sure and I hope that by performing in its place, which will be occupied by 100% today, it will, of course, make these indicators look better. Above all, there will not be a country in 133rd place such as Slovenia, which has the sea, hills, skiing, annual tourism, and we are in 92nd place. This problem is not from yesterday, this problem is a little older and I believe it has a very long tail. But I don't want to, like some of my fellow Members, start discussing who did it, why, whether it was an egg or a chicken, etc. I say that, if it is an opportunity now and if it is, and I am sure that Mrs Radic is a true candidate for a minister, and I expect this segment to be regulated as well. This is about income coming from tourism. This income is incredibly pure money. We don't need any industry to do this, nothing special. But around him he creates, of course, multiples of those who help this tourism so that it can live, function and everything it needs, of course, must also be ensured. In fact, there are other areas where Mrs Radic is equally determined. She showed that she was familiar with this area because she worked in this area. She was dismissed once. I'm glad she came back to the big door. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u69	Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! I have a feeling that we are replacing the wrong minister or that the matter has begun to unfold from the top down and not from the bottom up. The Minister is certainly not only enjoying a lot of support on the popular scales, but also enjoyed it among his fellow Members, especially when we recall him from the previous term. He referred to a witty man with no hair on his tongue, and he knew very well with what pitch to draw attention to. This has certainly enabled the president of the country he has been ahead of in recent times, when he will no longer be on the popularity scale. It would seem a little hasty to see where that point of dispute was, which led Minister Lahovnik to his resignation. I certainly assume that it is an unfavourable financial environment, in which he certainly did not have the basic conditions to implement any economic project. The higher the icy mountain was definitely Ultra's affair. Here it would point out the conduct of the President of the Government, who stood by Minister Golobic, and thus somehow became responsible for possible irregularities, which I fear will not be detected. For this conflict of interest Ultra – Minister also began to take an interest in Mr Kos. However, I am very afraid that he will go into the field blindfolded and closed his ears and finally declare that he has found nothing or that there is no issue in the field, although already after Slovenia sparrows are sizzling about the smell of the matter. Well, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development's research commissioned a revision of the TES 6 project, for which it therefore found a set of irregularities in the financial structure of the TES6 installation. Here it would point out that we have repeatedly warned in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because the investment with EUR 700 million has somehow landed on billions and EUR 100,000. It was the bank that found a whole bunch of so-called cost-building, i.e. a pre-seasoned turbine, then costs, too long construction, too late start when the money could be returned. At this point, I would like to state that no one would object to the setting up of TES 6, because it is in the energy structure, not only with quantity, but also especially with the rapid integration into the system, is necessary. TER 6 as a substitute for all other blocks 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 is a necessity, but not a precondition. In addition, the study showed that the coal reserves in the Shaleska Valley may not only be so optimistic or that they will not be sufficient for the estimated time until 2050, but will be exhausted earlier or to move on to more demanding and costly mining and an increase in the price of energy. Therefore, in certain media — for example — Net Energy has shown that the roof is already thinking about block 6 so that it can also work on imported coal. And then this link between block 6 and mining in the Valley of Shale. Well, then, to the work circle itself or to the working atmosphere of the minister. Well, she's probably not gonna make it to the pink field. If everything were so beautiful and pink, her predecessor probably wouldn't have given up either. That something is wrong in the economy or that much is wrong, the resignation of the President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Mr Pavček, shows. Because of his unethical conduct, when he did not pay social contributions for his employees, for employees where he owns, he was warned by the branches of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and reached his resignation. The Minister, since the economy is an interdisciplinary procedure or ministry, will have to listen primarily to the Minister of Finance and then to the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Environment. She'll find it rather difficult if we just look at a financial situation that isn't pink. It is reported here that by the end of the term of office, the Government of Borut Pahor will be in debt for EUR 8 billion. To let people know what this means, it's 10 lines of Divac-Koper, which is two-tier, it's 584 Falcons, it's 91 thousand 729 of the state-of-the-art Audis A8, it's 28% of the value of the Grand Final Siemens. What large financial assistance will not be received or will the Minister operate under difficult financial conditions. This is also due to market projects invested by banks, and this will now have to be remedied. It is reported here that due to the stadium of Sožica at Slovenca €110, due to the rehabilitation of the New Ljubljana Bank, which invested in these inherited projects or projects that will not be paid off, that is to say, the rehabilitation of EUR 2 000 250 per employee or per capita, the construction intervention of EUR 250 per capita, TŠ 6,600, the highway crossing of EUR 150 and the rehabilitation of the SID of the Bank or the Slovenian Investment Company 240 and some such smaller investments. The financial situation is not pink. How will the competitiveness of the economy be achieved, how will there be much-needed assistance for small and medium-sized enterprises? In the field, we see that a whole bunch of companies with 50 to 100 employees need ideas. However, they do not hope to take the next step, i.e. to larger businesses, there are up to 200 employees, because they are afraid of this poor financial situation and do not hope to take the risk. It will also face a decline in competitiveness, it will have to be answered and it will be under two years. I would like to point out a major problem to which I draw attention, namely the relation of agricultural production-processing-trade-consumer, where apparently trade takes on too much share. Together with the Minister of Agriculture, she will also have to bite into this very difficult area, this sour apple. I really appreciate the fact that she's just a minister from Gorenjska. However, so that we would not burn like we did with another minister when we thought he would have more hearing for Gorenjska, but in fact he had no ear for all of Slovenia and nothing moved in his field. I'm a little skeptical here, too. Finally, I still don't know what my support is. I certainly won't argue with the candidate. I think he's got enough knowledge from the official area to respond quickly to the answer. But now she's going to step into another area, which is the political area, and she's going to be the one, so she won't be able to lean on her boss anymore, on her minister, but it will be the other way around. From it, subordinate directors, secretaries, and so forth, will expect some answers. That is why I wish her all the best that she will successfully meet these challenges that await her. But like I said, he's stepping into his position in difficult situations.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u71	Mr. Kek, can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I think so. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u73	You want a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u74	Gradually, I would like to say that we are not obliged, within this agenda item, to listen to false, malicious flooding, how something smells, how corruption and customerism are in the air, without concrete evidence and concrete testimony. What do you mean, tell me? And we can answer that. By the time Minister Gregor Golobič had the opportunity to respond, he had answered everything. All your drownings have proved to be unrealistic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u75	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It was clear to us that today's speech will not only be about the candidate, Mrs Darja Radic, but that it will be primarily about a polygon where, in particular, one party of the opposition or the whole opposition will try to deal with our party, with another minister who is not on the agenda. So nothing new under the July sun. That's what we expected, that's what we got. After all, this indicates a lack of imagination and originality among colleagues of the largest opposition party. It would be a shame if this debate were reduced to a ping-pong, to a debate and to a controversy about things that are happening daily in all the media and even after various investigative commissions in the National Assembly itself, and in particular because, as colleague Kek said in his procedural proposal, there was nothing proven and precisely because there is no evidence, then there are also such debates as to continue to mix the vermin, create some conditions, constant tensions where, in fact, there is no need for evidence, and floods are part of the opposition's arsenal anyway. About the candidate herself, I'd like to support her first. We supported her immediately in the client. In particular, because Darja Radic represents the continuation of the work that she has already done successfully. It is not to be forgotten that there have been quite a few projects of the Ministry of Economic Affairs on the shoulders of the Secretary of State, and that she is actually a pillar in that ministry that we already know, and so we can also assess today. But what is interesting is this outside of the opposition, which points to the success of the current minister. Today we have heard so many praises at the expense of one minister of this government and this coalition. Until yesterday, when he was a minister himself, we only heard catastrophic estimates from the same mouth, but the economy was sinking. There was no perspective. Suddenly today we hear that this best minister was, and that the Minister who is leaving, who has just left, is actually very competent. I thank the opposition for such good grades. This means that this success will continue with Darja Radic. Because those successes have been the result of the work of the entire ministry, including, or above all, the secretary of state, who will become a minister today for sure. This area is demanding. It is a resort which, in certain circumstances, is also of particular importance in times of crisis and recession. I'm actually looking forward to running such a department by a competent acquaintance of some economic industries. Darja Radic has been exposed several times to being an expert in tourism. Tourism is that industry, and I think it's been exposed there several times today, which in these difficult times still helps us. It helps the economy. Because this is the only sector that provides continuity, especially if we can regulate the situation in this wider area, if we know how to regulate the situation with neighbouring countries. Tourism is an extremely important economic sector. As I expect in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, there will be a realization that, at the time of development, there is also a need to add that word to sustainable development, which also makes it possible for the environment to survive. The environment is the largest capital of our lives and also our long-term economic development. Therefore, sustainable development, which is to be supported by a social, economic or socio-responsible intensive economy, also means that all those projects that are on the agenda, which can be a major burden on our environment, will have to be taken care of. The discussions were also about irregularities identified with regard to the planning of the thermoelectric power plant 6. Let me remind my fellow SDS colleagues that it all began during the previous term and that those irregularities and many misplaced aspects of this mega project that we inherited and we must somehow carry it out without paying for the worse penalty, that this project is essentially inherited, that it was decided at the time and also many of these irregularities. I hope the time comes for a full assessment and for maximum transparency. In fact, it will prove to be what was going on. You know that the recruitment that the previous government has afforded has been absolutely unilateral, politically. At that time, a large company collapsed precisely because of its political staffing. In our government, in particular those companies where appointments were dependent on this ministry, from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, these clearances did not occur. Perhaps this is also one of those major problems related to TES 6 and Helles in particular to other sectors where some of the political personnel of the previous government survived, stayed and continued to do great damage. I hope that today a new stage, a new period, will begin and that Minister Radic will also act a little more decisively and ensure full transparency. We can talk about clienteleism, but we are talking about the clienteleism that has been fuelled by the irregularities referred to today by the SDS Member. It's kind of funny to hear that from those mouths, but it's politics, and we could expect that today. The attempt was to reopen the Ultra file and Mr Golobic's, to repeat this, because obviously in those investigative commissions, and in those institutions that are working on it, there was no way to prove anything that could be said to be illegal or illegal. This is the main mantra and major SDS trauma and unfortunately also some other observers and parts of the media landscape. A grateful subject where it can be speculated, where there is no need to prove anything. If I also trust her that Minister Darja Radic, future Minister, will have the opportunity to say everything that has happened in the economic sector, including the visa of these speculations to Ultra and so on, to tell you what was really going on. At that time, what we have heard, when we spoke in the party, will be clear that this change was not based on some trauma called Ultra or Golobič, but was about other differences, for other assessments and for nothing that would be more than what all of us as Members now know. It's an old story and it's not proven. Therefore, I ask you to understand Darje Radic's appointment as a appointment, confirmation of the continuity, which has the absolute support of the client Really. It has the support of a coalition that proves that re participation of the party Zares in the coalition continues confidently and without any complexes or inferiority syndromes, because Darja Radic is our party's minister. She is not ashamed of this, is not ashamed of the President of this party and is willing to act confidently and carry out all the projects in which she has already worked intensively and competently. I repeat, tourism is a great advantage, let's take advantage of the qualifications of the candidate. Let us also give our tourism the momentum it deserves. For there can be a link, a network, a synergy between different economic sectors, where we will establish not only tourism, but also agriculture, as well as environmental protection, recreation, as well as small entrepreneurship, as they do in some tourist and culturally developed European countries. The link between tourism and cultural heritage is still important. Finally, I recommend and advise future ministers to support those sectors that go far from speculative and speculative financial activities, those industries that are productive, which distance us from total dependence on foreign chains, although it is necessary to be involved in this context of the European common market and the economy, but to become more pervasive producers, innovators and thus support those innovators who will offer more added value to the Slovenian economy. Of course I'll be happy to support Darjo Radić.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mag. Darjo Radic, candidate, of course I will. I have a lot of reasons, and there's a lot of reasons I wouldn't list them all, maybe just something. I have known Darjo Radic since 2001 when we started working in the field of culture in the field of tourism and when cultural heritage began to climb, not least in tourism. Darja Radic knows his business very well, professionally. For this reason, I can say that its starting points or objectives, as she presented at her presentation yesterday, are one of the content of promoting the competitiveness of Slovenian tourism, in which I believe it will also implement it. We are always talking about this tourism, about the economic sector, but somehow we do not recognize it as a real economic sector. Darja Radic is a woman who knows very well and has very much experience. Therefore, I have no doubt that, in addition to all the areas already listed by my colleagues before me, there will be a need to cooperate, of course also a cultural or cultural heritage centre, as my predecessor has said, one of the main content or partnerships. There are many lonely people who are called castles who need content that need partnership and, above all, partnership in the economy with good programmes and good funding from the European Community. On the other hand, we have restored the sleeping beauty, the sacral cultural heritage throughout all the years, and on the other hand, we have somehow left silent castles or buildings that do not tell their story. And here Darja Radic will be, I am sure, made her move as soon as we examine what is happening at the Slovenian tourism organisation or has happened, because the real effect on the contribution of the funds that have been given is still not there today. I'm sure Darja Radic will contribute fresh. As an experienced woman who makes a decision on the basis of arguments, on the basis of reflection, I am sure that the Gordy knot, which you have seen so clearly today, will also be saved, which is called energy. But when she really thinks about it and she won't let herself get involved in some new Gordis knots, but she's told Bob Bob, no matter which party or policy she comes from, because she's acted and acted responsibly until now. I therefore expect that these decisions will also be responsible and good for all of us, which is not the last thing we expect Members from her. Because of this and many arguments, I support Darjo Radic. I look forward to working with her as a Member of Parliament. In particular, I look forward to seeing many ministers or ministers gain a good partner, a good coworker, if that's what she wants. Last but not least, we want the government to become a coordinated team that will work for the same goals and orientations and that will be the best means available. The economy lacks a good leader, you could say as I listened to you. That is why I am convinced that Darja Radic is one of the good leaders, if she is self-detained to a swift decision on economic diplomacy, every thing is good for something. Perhaps this decision has also been that it will now be much better dedicated to this role and that, as the first partner, Minister Žbogar, they will actively reflect on economic diplomacy and on the role and mission of our ambassadors, ambassadors and all employees, that the economy is the one that needs first the partnership of the country and all others who must open the door to our economy. Darji Radic can wish me a good way on my part, and also on my part, as well as a number of colleagues, or all great support for further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u80	Nice greeting to all in attendance! I will not oppose Mrs. Radic's candidates. I wonder, however, what alternative does economic policy have in Slovenia at all, what kind of personnel we have, what kind of vision does Slovenia actually have from some vicious circle, where there are mainly small non-competitive countries. I'm just going to say a few words about competitiveness. This was of very relatively little importance in terms of international relations. Slovenia will have to fight for the best possible success in international trade. Regrettably, however, there are no rules of loyal competition in this area. We are therefore fighting for competitiveness in a situation where conditions for loyal competitiveness are very limited. Rules of the World Trade Organisation. They speak of freedom of economic operators, freedom of expression. On the other hand, we all know that large companies, economies supported by the country, pave the way not with the quality of their products, but also with protectionist measures in particular. The rules of the World Economic Organisation should be amended. Why am I saying this and to whom am I telling it? It's probably empty. What will a small country in Slovenia be able to do about it? How can small countries like Slovenia compete with large multinationals? This is something that Slovenia should think about. Not only on their competitive condition, but also on safeguards, as whole industries are subject to low-cost products, which are of a type of dumping price. With this dumping price we will not be able to compete. Countries paying labour that pay contributions that meet other conditions that have a high social standard cannot compete with companies and the environment where the labour price is below any level where the basic rules of civilisation and culture are not respected. In these circumstances, I am a pessimist that Slovenia will succeed and that at the same time I should seek protection measures, both in the field of nutrition and in certain trade sectors, as well as in the area of financial market and banking. If we leave the biggest Slovenian bank to foreign takeover, we can ask ourselves what this will mean for the economy. I have not received a clear answer from the Minister and I fear that the trend will move forward, that we will be competitive in a non-competitive environment and that we, like Slovenia, will bring a short end. Nevertheless, I wish the new Minister great luck in this effort.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs Radic on her courageous decision that, in the middle of her mandate, in all the predictions and circumstances in which we are living at this moment, she has decided to accept this challenge and to run for the post of Minister of Economy. Given that this was a courageous decision, her work so far is certainly a guarantee that she will be a good minister. This can also be confirmed through its presentation in yesterday's debate at the Committee on the Economy, where, in fact, with clear answers to the questions raised and in the context of the presentation, she said how she saw the development of this area coming forward. In particular, from the experience she has had and has been able to obtain in the framework of her ministry's work in the past two years. In doing so, it must be made clear that the structure of the Slovenian economy is unfavourable. For good years, when it would be possible to make some structural changes significantly easier, this has not been done and therefore concerns about how we will be able to implement all the projects that will need to be done, especially on the basis of the fact that the Slovenian economy and Slovenian companies have leased a lot of credit in recent years and with a high level of indebtedness, which unfortunately did not result only in development breakthroughs, in the modernisation of technological equipment in the economic structure, but has also been linked to stimulating in the past periods of consolidation of ownership. That is why, and also in the LDS, we have focused on creating competitive conditions for Slovenian economies in order to create one that will allow for a substantial increase in added value and jobs that will have such payments for work that will ensure a decent life. Not the situation in which we are only able to create competitive opportunities for the Slovenian economy at the expense of the low-paid workforce. Of course, I also hope that some bad decision-making practices will not continue in the past, including in the past government, where we have had a very negative assessment from the local environment of decisions relating to state-owned enterprises and the sale of state-owned enterprises, the loss of a number of jobs, went to hundreds. On the other hand, of course, we have not been given appropriate measures to support additional development incentives. I will support Mrs. Radic, the candidate for the minister myself. I want her to find the right interlocutors not only in the coalition, but also in the opposition, because the situation in which she will work is not easy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Victory Jelinčič is not present. Mr. Bojan Kontic, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There's still some time left. Let me also use it to express my personal position on the candidacy that we are deciding on today. I am confident that the candidate will be a good minister to continue the work that has been started. It is very interesting today to hear the opinions of the opposition Members on the outgoing minister. A few days ago they were not so encouraging, in fact they were critical. Today is different, and perhaps it is also time to speak honestly about what is meant, perhaps about the one who leaves if there are no good words for those who remain. I'm sure the Minister will find answers to all the questions she's been asked. There is no secret, and I will not say anything new if I say that my decision-making and thinking is also about the implementation of the largest energy facility at this time. It is no secret that I am in favour of the implementation of Block 6 of the Šostjanje Thermoelectrica and that I would have problems if, at this point in time, I would have been flattened and overestimated that this project is bad, that it has to be stopped or anything like that. So I'm sure the Minister will continue this project. It is right and, of course, I agree with this and I stress that we are speaking publicly about possible irregularities. About possible, I say, because there is no evidence at this time that these irregularities would be, except for the feelings and impressions that some have in this investment. Speaking of the new minister, it is also good to assess the situation as it is today. Now, if we concentrate everything and leave Minister Lahovnik to focus on Block 6 and that the Minister has decided to withdraw because he does not want to take responsibility for this big investment, it would be too much for me and it is essentially a much more transparent game. This minister needs to be given something for his journey and show that he went for something else, not for what he warned him about. But it's too clear a game for people to just fall for this game. Now I hear you're looking for a sinful goat for this investment, and they said they've already found it. It's just that stories happen the way some people plan. I am confident, as I said in the introduction, that the debate on this will continue, that we will talk about this very openly and also resolve if anything can be resolved and improved at this time. However, it is very important that it is experienced in the field of tourism and that it can do more in this area than has been done in the past. In fact, we have great potentials, great opportunities, but they are underutilized. When we look at neighbouring countries, they can make very good use of all the natural things they have. And we're not that successful at it. Of course, thinking should take a more active approach to finding appropriate solutions. So tourism is a sector that can have an important impact in further assessments of our social product, home product and also tourism will depend on how it will grow in the future. Even from tourism. It's probably something else that matters. Competitiveness, which has been a lot of talk over the past months and a higher degree of competitiveness, is a task that the Minister has set and has actually announced. I now find it very difficult to agree to the assessments that I have heard in the past months, when it was said that the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy depends very much on whether we will have a compulsory share of profits in Slovenia or not. It will therefore be necessary to answer the question of what happened in this area at a time when this law was not adopted when it fell in the National Assembly. For the predictions were that there were many investors waiting for the decision of the National Assembly whether or not we would share the profits among the employees. Now that decision is clear. I would like to know how many of these foreign investors have come to the economic ground in Slovenia and have tested our happiness. We'll be looking for answers in the coming months. However, I want the Minister, of course, to continue his work in this area, which he well knows, while continuing in another function. But the tasks remain about the same and the emphasis remains roughly the same. I wish her great happiness in performing her new function today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. The economists on my phone day after day, and even so, they are lively, how to do nothing for them in Ljubljana. They're full of criticism. Criticism is largely at the expense of economic policy, which is said to be virtually inconsequential or very inconsequential. Of all of us, in particular, the Ministry of Economy expects a much more active policy, especially dealing with real problems. We talked about them several times in the National Assembly, but apparently there is little good in it. Let me just list some. It is still the number 1 payment non-discipline, credit crunch, i.e. financing, economy, production financing, investment financing, the problem of promoting investment, technological development, innovation. Above all, they want us to stop the burden of the economy, to turn this story to the other side and to come into a decommissioning of the economy, which I believe is the only right way if we want to increase or increase or boost the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. They also expect serious changes in the field of labour law and what is already going on. Today, when I try again on one side to thank the candidates in the coalition, on the other hand, the scepticism of opposition parties, I ask again whether such a procedure for appointing a minister makes any sense and whether it is at all optimal. I suppose it would be good to take this seriously once and for all and make some changes in this area, because I think the procedure we have is completely unrelated, as it's called, but that's the way it is. I was personally expecting an economist in this place, expecting a crisis manager. That would probably be the right response of the coalition to the time we live in. However, I believe that this is almost impossible also because of the unattractive conduct of this profession. I guess we'll have to talk about it in the future, or at least start talking about it, not with demagogies. Where, for example, did we bring the office of Prime Minister or Minister? That seems irresponsible to me, actually. We're gonna have to change that. It is not normal for such an important function, in fact the most important function in the country, to be attractive to any professor who can return to that position at any time, from where it comes to this position of minister or perhaps to any public official or employee. I don't think that's good for this country. We should have the system or the possibility of bringing to these functions the best possible personnel that the state overtakes. No matter how much they themselves demand to come to this place. This is a debate for one another. We will judge Mrs. Darjo Radic according to her work. Today, anything to say about her as a minister is, of course, premature. In any case, encouragement must be given. In particular in the fight against increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, I think the task is number one. I also expect that it will take rational positions in the very light, that I will not say nonchalant decisions in relation to changes in ownership in the most important financial institutions. I firmly believe that the Slovenian economy needs a strong, effective, competitive Slovenian bank. We have enough foreign banks. There's actually one around every corner. We have a bank in every street that's all foreign. It would be right to do everything and more to keep one of the most important, the largest, most powerful banks in Slovenia. I think this is very important for the Slovenian economy. But that's what we're gonna talk about in this house. I will be very interested in monitoring how the Minister will deal with energy issues. In this area, Slovenia has never had a real strategy since its independence. And now she doesn't. Everything is left to certain individual decisions. I decide when, in the end, there's no telling who took them and who's responsible for them. But we are talking about a decision, a project that weighs more than a billion euros. If we have the right energy strategy in Slovenia, this TES 6 project should certainly not be the priority of this country. There are certainly many such projects in the energy field that should take precedence over this project. If we had a strategy, then there would also be a realisation. But that's the way it is. Unfortunately, from this end of Slovenia comes great political power and probably is also the reason that this project is taking place so rapidly. By the way, I also agree with those who say that this is actually a real developmental law for this part of Slovenia and, for example, it is a pomurish development law, if I refer to it as real charity. I expect the new Minister to finally stop the race against the Director or the President of the administrations who have been appointed in the previous term. Exchange for God's sake those you intend to replace. It would've been time after a year and a half and stop squawking people. Because it doesn't benefit anyone. Not both sides, but least of all companies. So, let's switch what you're thinking of replacing, and leave the rest alone.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Joko Godec will not discuss it. Mr. Vito Rozej. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, chairman. Perhaps I would start with one thought expressed by my colleague Ribič that the economic crisis is a result of a crisis of values. But the economy, as this country and most of the world understands, is capitalist and based on the desire to make a profit. In other words, if you want to be more Scriptural, based on greed, it is based on mortal sin. By agreeing, of course, that the economic crisis is a result of a crisis of values. But if we all bet on greed, this thing can't end well. This is what we have come to with our economy and, of course, the global economy. Probably not among us, either, who would argue that the current economic crisis is the fault of culture, education or perhaps sport, that we are in this crisis. I'm sure you don't. What are these measures now that we see how we are going to get out of this crisis, but they are completely different. I have often heard criticism at the expense of the outgoing minister by the opposition, of course that is not the case today. If the economic burden was too small, in short, that we should give more room to greed and then it will solve things on its own. Attempts to do so, of course, have been, we see results today. Attempts during the previous term were such that these burdens have been reduced. According to some estimates, the Slovenian economy has breathed 12 billion more easily. And half of that went, as you know, to those who pressed the key for, for these laws, to ransom and to what you now call tycoon property. Whose fault it is, it is quite clear here that on the side of the previous coalition, which has unloaded the Slovenian economy in the previous term. Only half of them went into what they wanted us to go to. So it would be short for investment, development and so on. Some companies have also done so, and these companies, which today are the ministers of the same government, which has burdened the economy, seem to be "wrong" by state budget resources. And this is what the same minister, who, for example, proposed a restriction on compensation after serving for six months, and then shamelessly exploited it, although of course he had something to live on, this whole year and at the same time, he declared that he was not ashamed of it at all. It is these people who should be ashamed, who now point to some others with their finger, who are the only ones who have managed the virtue that is both in politics and in the economy of rare, and that is to admit a mistake. The president of one of the political parties was able to admit a mistake and, of course, was severely punished and still is. The president of one another, for example, copied the speeches of foreign statesmen and didn't even apologize for it. He lied about the truth about helicopter transport and, of course, never apologized for it. He even lied to this country's court about the reason for his absence. The leader of the parliamentary group held the bag in this, and nothing happened to anyone. Thus, I think that the talk about values in the economy may be the most perverse. It is probably not an area of legislation where holes in the legislation would be sought more inflamed and thoroughly than they are looking for right here. Of course, the drive is, as I have already mentioned, a greed, a mortal sin that is obviously still close to many, because I can still hear a speech in today's debate about the need to burden the economy. Of course, what is the picture of the economy that we want to see, we have been able to join together several times at principle levels in this National Assembly to want more added value to want new technologies, we want innovation. But the companies that deal with these things are the ones that get the biggest media lynch. They claim to be receiving state funds, which, of course, is not true. True, they receive budgetary resources, but not from this country, but from other countries that recognise this value. For example, Ultra received such assistance from the U.S. state of New Jersey. Here is that stumbling block that we must overcome if we want the Slovenian economy to really be able to make this breakthrough, so that we can see what is good, which, of course, we can look into abroad. This case from New Jersey may already be like this. To understand that they are equal conditions for all that makes it possible for real competitiveness, because these are the same conditions under which this greed has brought us into this economic crisis. It is not possible to individually solve this project, this project, this or that champion, this or that imported project. Because in this way, because these projects are thousands and thousands, we're not going anywhere, because it's not going to be systemic. Some will always feel extended, others, of course, neglected. No one will try to rely on their own strength. Everyone will pray to the state to help them. The Minister of Economy, the future, she'll probably have to help everyone. But what she will do, and she also said at the hearing, is that she will respect the laws, which, of course, applies to all members of our party, regardless of the fact that, of course, some interlocutors think the opposite. It is also true that the speakers said that the economic minister would take over this position at an unappreciative time with great challenges that were too great for someone who had previously served this function. Here I see the reason for the resignation of the current economic minister, who has already found it difficult to agree that at the beginning of this government's mandate he has become an economic minister, and, of course, he was trying to find an elegant way out. Whether he was one or not, of course, you will judge for yourself, in the end, of course, the electorate and the electorate. But I like that in his shoes, which I'm sure will never be too big, a woman's rate, which is definitely good. And this is a woman with experience who has already worked in this area and will work in advance. Perhaps, of course, her ministry will not be marked by eloquent, lucid, or I do not know what statements. I am sure that one of the ministers who will speak less will do more, which is certainly good. You'll all agree with that. I also hope that because she is a Gorenjek, she will do nothing more for Gorenjeska, just as my colleague Ziherl actually thinks corruptly. I hope that it will equally well represent the interests of the economy in all parts of this country. That, just as some of us may not work for the good of their constituency, she does not have some bad knowledge, as some of us do, who then overcome the quasi moral attitude to preach to others about their actions and alleged controversy. I also hope that this economic minister and not any other minister who will succeed her, however things may go in the future, will not take up this position because of what Comrade Žerjav has suggested that these be the best personnel, that they demand as much as they want and that they come and that they be crisis managers. How wrong! Then, of course, we can start bidding for these jobs, collecting public offerings, who will give less, who will give more, etc. This is exactly the logic of this same economy, based on greed, which, of course, in the state administration, there is nothing to look for between officials. The rules are known for all the same. On the payroll, they are as confirmed by this National Assembly. It's wrong for someone who doesn't want to face this challenge. I'm glad he's a mag. We're gonna do this. I also looked forward to being the third minister from my client's quota. There will be three ministers and one minister in the Minister's quota. This reminds me of an Istrian proverb: "The woman in the house supports three corners and one donkey." And in the case of the client, that's exactly what it is. We also have one minister with these ministers. But I don't think he's an ass because of his intellectual or any other abilities. Surely, though, because of the stubbornness and perseverance of his position and that he lets himself throw in the face of all the insults that throw them at him, and yet he does his work well. So will the new Minister, and so will both ministers from this party. I hope that in future debates in the Slovenian economy they will say more about the content itself and the points that will be on the agenda, but not about anything else. So we can understand that the rules are written for everyone. For former supervisor Luke Koper, who is now a member of a company or a car carrier, for a minister who is still co-owner of a technology company, for a Member who owns a few shares, of course, has forgotten to tell a medium when asked, or for an uneducated worker, in any job, pensioner, etc. That the rules are the same and that if there is anything at this National Assembly, it is not that he will seek exceptions to the quasi-exiting points and malign them and push them on average, but that he will ensure that he respects these rules. If the rules are not written enough, he'll fix them. That's our job. But everything else, I don't think it's worth the level that politics in this country would deserve. I'll do it for these reasons, mags. Radic supported it and, of course, I continue to wish it a success in this area. She will now have more room for manoeuvre and also more responsibility, which, unlike anyone else, does not defend herself. Well, good luck!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u90	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone! Here I can first conclude that the President of the Government has missed a good opportunity to apply at least part of his announcement from months ago when he said it was possible to lead the country even with a smaller number of ministers than the current one. At Dr. Lakhovnik's resignation, he had the ideal opportunity to restructure the resources somehow. Instead of now dealing with the appointment of a new minister, we could peacefully consider the amendment of the Government Act and, in line with this promise, we could also implement the government's announcement. Another significant issue in these discussions is that at least one political group measures the attitude of anyone to anything through Ultra glasses. I think that from the discussions virtually all the Members of Parliament from Zares, practically everything was based on Ultra and these events around Ultra. In short, the big problem in this parliamentary group is the public-to-Ultre ratio. Here I would also like to draw attention to the record of the letter of the Minister, who resigned when he wrote in part of his work, in addition to the reasons for his resignation: "The area I currently run still includes societies where the state directly owns the majority. Among these, let me expose HESS, Gene Energy, Eles, Electrodistribution Companies, Telekom, Mail and some others. In addition, the Ministry of Economy, together with the implementing institutions, implements calls to promote technological development and internationalisation. In view of the above-mentioned application of the Ultra Group to the invitations of my Ministry, I can assume that they are also trying to operate with companies directly owned by the State and belonging to my ministry." It's in a letter from the minister who resigned. At the same time, I would like to remind you that I myself have asked three written questions, the first on 12 March, the second on 23 April and the third on 10. 6. where I asked the Government to tell us with which ministries, state institutions and companies in which the state has or has owned more than 25% of the ownership share, Ultra or its subsidiaries operated during the period prior to the government of Janez Janša, during the period of the Janša government and with which, according to Janšev, in the time of the Pahor government. Secondly, the question was whether public tenders had been made for these transactions. Thirdly, the question was when the contracts were signed, for how long, for which products and purposes. Fourthly, how much or were contractual values and how much payments were made. Fifthly, whether any contracts have been terminated if they have ever been and why. Sixthly, whether or not there has been an extension of the contracts and on what basis, if any, and why. Three times such questions were repeated, and the Government refused to answer them. She did not respond and hid for the Public Procurement Act and other legislation. I would like to know how the Government can even exercise its ownership function when, in the supervisory councils of these companies, even at the head of these companies, it places people in its circle who have excellent, obviously excellent measures, at least after the statement of members of the coalition, and who do not carry out their own functions. They do not wish to report whether there have actually been any collisions in these cases, in fact, when Minister Lahovnik wrote in his letter of resignation at the end of June. How does the government function as owner? How does the government set up a supervisory board, how do the supervisory councils report to the majority owner? Obviously, the government has absolutely no interest in performing any function over the business and on the kind of business that Mr Lahovnik has pointed out. Here we can say peacefully that the Government does not exercise its ownership role and allows, tolerates business in this way. It was also said here that Mrs Radic is simply a person who will continue the policy of Lachovnik. Minister Lakhovnik resigned because of one policy. Can we expect a new minister to resign in 14 days, who is likely to be appointed today by the votes of the coalition if she continues the Lachovnik's policy? Or will she pursue another policy? The policy of its party president, as well as the government, is it obvious to defend itself in any way from reporting on transactions that clearly fall within the circle of clientelistic and possibly corrupt transactions? Even if they're legal, they certainly are, but they're probably corrupt. Here I think that these warnings, which Minister Lachovnik wrote in his resignation, should be taken seriously. This should be borne in mind by the coalition, the government and the authorities that we have set up to keep things lawful, transparent and transparent. In short, there is clearly no full interest in this area, not for any restructuring, rationalisation, but even less for any supervision and legality of business. Apparently, some remain and remain privileged to cooperate with companies owned by the majority state and also to use and use public funds that are obviously available to some under extremely favourable conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Can I help you? It's a replica. Mr. Franci Kek. Please! Correction of the indication. You were actually mentioned in the speech as a parliamentary group. Correct the wrong entry, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u92	We have been mentioned as all Members of Parliament, indeed, and I feel like Member Really, which we have discussed today. Mr Tanko has mentioned that Members of Parliament really have a problem with Ultra. We don't have any problems with Ultra. We know it's a successful company and it works by law. The law applicable to other companies does not apply to Ultra either. However, we receive constant treatment, generalization there in general, that there is corruption in the air, that something smells. However, when you talk about specific matters, Minister Golobič can very simply prove to you that nothing is true. All you have to do is give him a chance and he also has it on the investigative committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Replica, correction of statement, Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Tank, who suggested that we are obsessed with this issue, I would just like to point out that we have replicated the debates that were mainly concerned with Ultra and the other minister, a little less with candidate Darja Radic. So, we have only responded and proved once again that Ultra is primarily the mantra of the SDS, and the fact that in the investigative commission demanded by the opposition and led by the esteemed fellow Member Rudolf Petan, unfortunately, so far they have not been able to obtain any evidence. On the contrary, it turned out that this structure could turn out to be a boomerang against those who launched it. There are no concrete facts or evidence to substantiate this suspicion or rumor or this conformism based on stereotypes about the evil policies of Zares. So, once again, let's be serious. Today we are talking and today we are going to vote on a candidate for a minister who comes from our party proudly and who will confidently carry out projects that she has also started and in which she has worked seriously since the beginning of her term of office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The future Minister of Mags. Darjo Radic is waiting for hard work. It will be very difficult to realise its predictions, its visions, because the admiration of Mr Križanič, Minister of Finance, in the tax area is impossible to stop. A proposal from the Real Estate Tax Act was published online today by the Ministry of Finance. See what the Social Democratic Government can do in the area of property taxation. Firstly, Prime Minister Pahor has announced that there will be no increase in the current tax burdens on the population and not the economy. The law states that the property tax will be approximately 30% more tax collected than the existing real estate tax. That's what you call the first broken word. Why is Mrs. Radic waiting for hard work? Because the same law states that business facilities will be taxed with five times the value of residential buildings in 2011 and that industrial buildings will be taxed with seven times the tax rate on residential areas. It will be taxed all, agricultural areas, forest areas, everything. Dearly respected, the tax wedge is attached irrespective of the promises of the current Minister, irrespective of the promises of the Prime Minister, as if we were living in two different worlds. The Minister of Finance works one, the words of the Prime Minister of the Government, the words of the future Minister of Economic Affairs are another. Look what else is written in this law. The Social Democrats will be able to hang this in their offices. This provision of Article 11 of the draft law, 'tax cannot be deducted under the provisions of the Tax Procedure Act even if the payment of the tax would endanger the survival of taxpayers and their family members'. Therefore, it is not possible to deduct the tax in this case as well. Furthermore, "tax enforcement is carried out even when the value of the property is disproportionately high in relation to the amount of the unpaid tax". This means that property can be forfeited in the event of a debt of one euro or ten euro. And further, "if the debtor cannot pay the tax, the municipality can acquire the whole property". He's actually sitting down with ownership of it. If this is how you imagine an exit strategy, if you so imagine a traveler to the current Minister of Economy that you will be five times, respected Prime Minister, I am pleased, I hope you have also read the proposal for a real estate tax law. Your statement was made in the media so you wouldn't increase existing taxes. In this proposal, the law states among the financial consequences that the tax inflows from this tax will increase by 30% in relation to existing taxes. This is stated in the bill, which is now on the web site, to tax five-time business facilities on residential buildings in order to tax seven-time industrial buildings on residential property decisions. And once again, Article 11 states that, irrespective of the Tax Procedure Act, taxes cannot be deducted in the event that the payment would endanger the survival of the taxpayer or his family. In this case, too, the tax must be paid and recovered by maintaining or taking property from a person. That's what your minister, Social Democracy, or the SD, wrote in the law. It's a mockery of your words, of your efforts as a candidate. That's why I'm saying because it's unfair for a candidate to go with such a passport, with such a backpack in this mandate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u97	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. They want to? Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The Minister of Economy is called Mag. Darja Radic. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 9. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I'm guessing he's a mag. Darja Radic appointed Minister of Economy. I congratulate the Minister of Government on his appointment and wish to carry out my duties successfully. I ask the newly appointed Minister to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. / applause/
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u98	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u99	She wants to speak in front of the National Assembly? He does. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u100	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members! Allow me to sincerely thank you for your confidence in supporting my candidacy as Minister of Economy. I'm aware there's a difficult task ahead of me. I'm aware of the situation of the economy. Together with my colleagues at the Ministry of the Economy, I will endeavour to mitigate this crisis as much as possible with our actions and activities, and, of course, above all, to help our economy reach a higher technological level by helping it achieve a higher competitive position. I am aware and I am sure, and I have repeated this many times, a healthy economy and a healthy economy alone is that fundamental guarantee, a fundamental guarantee and a marriage for social security and the well-being of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Again, thank you so much for your confidence.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-16-SDZ5-Izredna-27.ana.u101	Dear colleagues and colleagues, having regard to the appointment of the Minister of Economy of the National Assembly, note the following: Since Dr Matthew Lahovnik has ceased to serve as Minister of Economy, he is acting as a Member of Parliament as of today in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members. Secondly, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, he shall cease to serve as Member of the Loja Posedel, acting in place of Mr Matei Lahovnik at the time he served as Minister. On this occasion, I thank Loizet Posedel for his work in the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this item of the agenda. I also conclude the 27th extraordinary meeting of the assembly. Thank you very much. Now I really want a nice parliamentary holiday. Thank you very much. The meeting was closed on 16 July 2010 at 2.06 p.m.
