ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, in particular Mrs Vraničareva from the Ministry of Finance. I begin with the continuation of the 17th regular session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be held by the following Members: Zvone Černač from 16:00 on, Victory Jelinčič Plmeniti and Jožef Jerovšek. I welcome all those present once again. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act, an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, honourable Members and Members. Allow me briefly to present the main solutions to the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act. The proposed law provides that the income earned by residents of debt securities shall be determined by the tax authority on the basis of the debtor’s forecast. The proposed solutions increase the dynamics of lending to the non-bank sector and support the continued recovery of the Slovenian economy, strengthen economic growth and thus increase competitiveness. This amendment is linked to the amendment of the Income Act and the Law on corporate income taxes, which will be dealt with in the next two points. The second amendment of the law provides for a better way of obtaining data for the manager of the Compulsory Additional Insurance Fund, which, in accordance with the proposed amendment, will automatically obtain the data necessary for the management of the Fund. This amendment will enter into force on 1 January 2011. The third set of amendments relates to the deposit of the income. With an amendment, we propose that the payment of income for income included in the annual tax base of the taxable person, with the exception of the income from the employment relationship achieved by the employer, where the taxable person reaches the bulk of the income from the employment relationship, and for the income obtained by carrying out the activities determined by the tax assessment decision, should not be deducted if the income advance does not exceed EUR 20. This must be notified in writing to the taxable person. Income not paid for during the year shall be included in the tax base for the annual income assessment. This proposal only eliminates the inequality between the amount of the payment of the income by way of a tax deduction and the decision of the tax authority to deduct the payment of the income on the basis of a pledge made by the debtor, where, in the event of a decision, the exemption for the assessment was already in force if it did not exceed EUR 20. In the light of the above, we propose that the proposed law be supported by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. The Committee's position will be presented by Mr Bogdan Chapič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u4	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greeting, Secretary of State! Colleagues and colleagues! At its 23rd urgent meeting, on 17.5.2010, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Tax Procedure submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the Assembly by means of a proposal for adoption following an urgent procedure approved by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 61st meeting on 7.5.2010. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which examined the text in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects and gave specific warnings to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 5 of the legislative proposal. On the basis of the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service, amendments were tabled to Articles 1, 2, 3 and 5 of the text of the Coalition Group, SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service participated in the meeting of the Committee. In the supplementary explanation of the articles at the beginning of the second reading of the proposal, the representative of the Government stressed that the proposal constituted a supporting text of the law governing the income or income tax of legal persons; a different method of assessment of the tax in question was introduced. Otherwise, the novelty is due to the need for new solutions related to the charging or payment of a tax on certain capital incomes, by the fact that the fundamental change relates to the way in which the income from interest, from debt securities, is paid in parallel to the imposition of the obligation on persons who are obliged to provide data to the taxable person to provide information relating to the interest received. Further, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service made a special comment regarding the comments sent to the service regarding the nomotechnic drafting of the final provision of Article 5 of the proposal, drawing attention to the unanimity of practice in this area. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee further identified and adopted the amendments tabled by the coalition. At the same time, the Committee voted on individual articles of the legislative proposal and also adopted everything. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted and which you have received from Members on the bench, is prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bogdan Chapič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u6	Thanks again for saying that. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act will be supported by the Group of Social Democrats. Amendments to the Tax Procedure Act are due to the need to amend the solutions relating to the calculation and payment of the tax on certain incomes from capital. Due to the difficult financing through debt issuance, the Government has listened to the opinions of banks and individual companies. The solutions introduced will remove the obligation to pay the tax evasion and thus reduce the costs of issuers of debt securities, notably the costs associated with the failure of foreign investors to take the risk of taxing the interest in the issuing State. In view of that condition, banks and companies will include in the issuance of debt securities the so-called "gross up" clause, which means an undertaking for the issuer to pay a certain amount to the recipient or beneficiary of the interest, irrespective of the possible tax burden on the beneficiary in the issuing State. The abolition of the obligation to pay tax evasion is an additional measure aimed at facilitating access to finance, i.e. the cheaper borrowing of banks and companies at home and abroad. The government, with these changes, proves that it can listen to the needs of both banks and economies with a desire to move faster and cheaper towards capital for development and business. Such a measure may also have a indirect impact on ensuring a more stable situation in the domestic banking market, thereby increasing the dynamics of lending to the non-bank sector and the further recovery of the Slovenian economy, strengthening sustainable economic growth, creating new jobs and thus increasing competition. The proposed solution will follow in substance and technically the arrangements adopted at the beginning of this year for interest on debt securities issued by the Republic of Slovenia under the law governing public finances. The second amendment will set out the most appropriate method of obtaining data on the basis of which the Capital Company, which under the Pension and Disability Insurance Act has the power to manage the Compulsory Additional Insurance Fund, will automatically obtain from the tax authority the information necessary to manage the Fund. This amendment will enter into force with 1. 1. 2011. The amendment to the Tax Procedure Law also provides that the income advance for income included in the annual tax base taxable person, except for income from the employment relationship achieved in employers where the taxable person reaches the bulk of the income from the employment relationship, and for income obtained by carrying out activities determined by the provisions of the tax assessment, shall not be deducted if the tax does not exceed EUR 20. The taxable person shall also be informed thereof in writing. Income from which no income advance has been paid during the year shall be included in the base for the annual income assessment. In view of the above, as we have already said, the Group of Social Democrats will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Mr Villa Trophynik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The proposed amendments to the tax procedure law bring three novelties in relation to the applicable tax procedure law, namely, the right amendment relates to access to data representing tax confidentiality. Capital company d.d. As manager of the Compulsory Additional Insurance Fund, in accordance with the proposed legislative amendment, will have automatic access to tax confidentiality data for the purposes of managing the Fund. The second amendment relates to the payment of income for income included in the annual tax base, other than income from the employment relationship and the operating income, shall not be measured in the event that the deposit does not exceed EUR 20. And the third amendment relating to income from resident debt securities to be identified by the tax authority in the future by a decision on the basis of the debtor's forecast. Although it is at first sight a matter of minor changes to the law, their implementation is welcome and, therefore, we will support them in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! According to the proposer, in view of the above-mentioned and difficult financing through debt debt issuance, according to banks and individual companies, solutions should be put in place to eliminate the obligation to pay the tax evasion and thereby reduce the costs of the issuer in debt securities. In particular, it is the costs associated with the failure of foreign investors to take the risk of taxation of interest in the issuing State. The abolition of the obligation to pay tax evasion is intended to be an additional measure in order to facilitate access to finance, i.e. the cheaper borrowing of banks and companies at home and abroad. If such a measure can also indirectly affect the provision of a more stable situation in the domestic banking market, thereby increasing the dynamics of lending to the non-bank sector and the further recovery of the Slovenian economy, strengthening sustainable economic growth, creating new jobs and thus increasing competition, the proposed law will of course be supported by the SLS Group. However, this explanation of the proposaler, the Government, may seem exaggerated. This measure will certainly not bring about all that the Government lists with such a glories. There's more to be done. It will be necessary to implement measures that have been dead on paper for more than half a year, and in particular structural measures, which we are also discussing the entire mandate of this government. The situation is getting worse. As it is, it probably won't be possible to move forward. Either we prevent Slovenia from going along the path of Greece in advance, or we will be there in two years. Either way, it's gonna hurt. It's up to us to get it right away. Above all, this responsibility is at present with the current government. As we say, we will support the proposed law for heating, and we expect further action from the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Good morning and good morning and good day. I hope it's better and nicer than yesterday. The proposed amendments to the tax procedure law will be supported by DeSUS Members. The innovation essentially refers to three segments, namely the interest on debt securities, the acquisition of data from the Capital Company, which manages the Mandatory Additional Insurance Fund, to the indemnification of an income advance on certain incomes if the tax did not exceed EUR 20. And what will these changes contribute to? According to the Finance Minister, increasing the dynamics of lending to the non-bank sector and the recovery of the Slovenian economy, thereby strengthening economic growth and competitiveness, allowing the automatic acquisition of the data needed to manage the fund. The latter will also take into account the existing legislation in the processing of these data and the elimination of the inequality between the amount of the payment of the income by tax evasion and the decision of the tax authority on the deduction of the income allowance on the basis of the taxable person's income forecast. In short, we have no reservations about the amendments proposed by DeSUS Members, so we will contribute our votes to its adoption.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u14	Good day to your colleagues, and to you, we'll be together all day. Today we are going to talk about an extensive package of content covered by the Financial and Monetary Committee. The Law on the Tax Procedure or the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act under consideration today is the eighth amendment or addition to this Act. This novelty today is due to the need to change the solutions relating to the calculation and payment of capital tax. It is also a solution that would eliminate the obligation to pay the tax evasion and thus reduce the costs of issuers of debt securities. This is an additional measure that will facilitate access to finance - i.e. to the cheaper borrowing of banks and companies at home and abroad. This measure has a indirect impact on increasing the dynamics of lending to the non-bank sector, on the further recovery of the Slovenian economy, on the creation of new jobs and on increasing competition. Due to such indirect possible measures and consequences, we will also support the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Madam Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues. The main innovation brought by the proposed law is related to the way in which income from interest is paid, from debt securities. The government proposes that the remuneration of the interest paid by the resident of the natural person from the debt securities be determined by the tax authority on the basis of the undertaking’s forecast and that the obligation to pay the tax evasion be abolished. In addition, the Government in the law also proposes that persons who are bound to provide data must provide the taxable person with information relating to such obligations received. We view this solution as a favourable and burdensome solution and a contribution to increasing the efficiency of the system. In fact, the amendments to the law themselves relate to the proposed amendments to the amendments to the Income Act and to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will support the changes envisaged, as we fully agree with the assessment that limited and difficult financing through debt issuance of debt securities requires the introduction of solutions that will eliminate the obligation to pay the tax evasion and thus reduce the costs of issuers of debt securities. This solution also refers to the fact that the costs associated with the failure of foreign investors to take the risk of taxation of interest in the issuer’s home country are being reduced. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we also support the change in the light of the law's objective of ensuring easy access to finance, which is important and necessary in the context of the time we live, the cheaper indebtedness of banks and businesses at home and abroad. As the Government continues to state in explanation, such a measure can indirectly influence, and positively, also to ensure a more stable situation in the domestic banking market, thereby increasing the dynamics of lending to the non-bank sector and the further recovery of the Slovenian economy. We therefore, of course, hold back support for these measures and assess that these are important and genuine steps. We are confident in the parliamentary club - about what has been said in one of the debates - that of course Slovenia is not on the Greek path and that it will not be on the Greek path for two years. In addition, the draft law also introduces changes affecting the automatic transmission of data, which will simplify certain procedures related to the Capital Society. On the basis of all of this, we can express our united support for and support of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia for legal changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. It will be decided in accordance with the timetable, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons - Urgent Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. I give the floor to Mrs Matei Vraničar for an additional presentation of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The amendments and additions to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons form an integral part of the proposed amendments to the Law on Income and the Amendments to the Law on Tax Procedure. All three proposed novels have the same objective and purpose. If, in the near past, in support of other systemic measures, we have implemented measures aimed at alleviating the crisis in the context of tax legislation, then the measures you will take in the framework of the package already mentioned for today can indicate that their objective is to develop and continue to grow the economy. They refer to a certain benefit or relief for the debtors, encourage them to employ, invest in research and development and enable them to be more easily and cost-effective in borrowing or obtaining funds. The proposed amendments and additions to the corporate tax law introduce a new tax exemption for the employment of certain categories of persons. The draft law provides for the application of general relief in the form of a reduction of the tax base on corporate income for the new employment of certain more difficult categories, namely persons under 26 years of age and persons over 55 years of age who have been registered at the employment institution for at least six months. The need to implement a new job facilitation has shown itself after analysing data on the number and structure of unemployment and to support other employment policies. Furthermore, amendments or upgrades are being introduced to invest in R & D. The bill provides for an amendment to the already established relief, with an increase in the overall relief for R & D investment from the current 20% to 40% for R & D investment, with an increase in regional tax relief as the overall relief is higher. The abolition of taxation on a source of interest on the issued debt securities of companies, including banks, pursues the objective of easier and cheaper indebtedness. The proposal for a law provides for an amendment to taxation on the source of interest on debt securities issued by an economic company established in accordance with the regulations of the Republic of Slovenia and must respect certain restrictions imposed on the prevention of speculation. The law will apply from 1 January 2010 until the date of its entry into force in order to facilitate employment or to facilitate investment in R & D. Taking into account the above, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that the amended proposal of the law be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. The Committee's position will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u20	At its 23rd urgent meeting, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which forwarded specific comments to Articles 2, 3 and 4 of the text. The proposed law was amended by the SDS Group to Articles 1 and 2 of the text and the amendment to Article 3 of the legislative proposal was tabled by four coalition groups SD, Indeed, LDS and DeSUS. The presentation at the Committee's meeting showed that the newly introduced facilitation co-forms and builds up the current employment policy. Based on the accompanying explanation, the text follows the basic objective of reducing interest on certain debt securities. According to the applicant's assessment, the novelty is aimed at decommissioning the debtors, facilitating their position in the current economic and financial situation and providing appropriate incentives for employment and investment in R & D. Among the solutions presented, however, it is particularly important to highlight the introduction of a general benefit for the employment of the most affected groups of persons, an increase in the overall relief for investment in research and development, while at the same time changing the taxation of interest on certain debt securities. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the final provision which derogates in respect of the nomotechnic practice shows an uneven practice in that area. The debate focused on the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 1 and 2 of the legislative proposal. According to the representative of the amendment's proposers, this is a serious communication in the context of the emerging situation in the area of R & D. Thus, the proposed 100% amendment provides all support not only to investment in R & D but to the whole economy. According to the amendment's proposers, it is most appropriate to leave decisions on such investments to eligible entities. According to the opinions presented, the introduction of individual tax reliefs did not lead to an increase in overall relief too disproportionately. According to coalition discussers, this is an amendment proposal that needs further study. It was pointed out that similar problems had already been faced by the other members of the European Union, by precisely defining the rules of use in order to prevent abuses and in practice applying them. On the other hand, it is noticeable that in our space it is a series of downtrodden measures without a clear definition of the links between monetary and fiscal policy. It would be most appropriate to introduce such reliefs during the economic growth phase. For the reason that such investments represent at least medium-term, if not long-term solutions, it seems that the introduction of a 100% relief in moments and at this point is excessive in times of crisis has been the opinion of coalition representatives. The representative of the Government stated, with the express non-support of the amendment to Article 1, that it was not possible to make a 100 % reduction in financial terms, while the deletion of regional concessions was inappropriate. However, the explanation of the amendment to Article 2 shows that in times of economic crisis, when the number of unemployed is increasing, the trend of increasing unemployment is reversed, so it is proposed to facilitate for all employees and not only for certain groups, but also to increase the rate to 70% for certain groups. At the same time, tax breaks should allow companies not to pay income tax at the start of their business. At the time of its consideration of the individual articles, the Committee voted on the amendments tabled and adopted the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 3. The amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 1 and 2 have not been adopted by the Committee. The Committee also did not adopt an oral proposal for an amendment to the Committee for the amendment of Article 2, paragraph 1, submitted during the examination of the applicant’s representative’s initiative [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the basic amendment of the SDS Group of Members. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u22	Dear Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues, unfortunately there is no one in here. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are extremely concerned about developments and, last but not least, about such proposals for laws that are before us today. Indeed, this law should be adopted when we proposed it in the Slovenian Democratic Party, namely, raising and introducing certain tax exemptions and reducing taxes on businesses. Indeed, we have always believed that in Slovenia, economic activity and the promotion of economic activity must be encouraged in times of crisis, and it will also solve the accumulated problems of increasing unemployment and also in the social field. It would be necessary to start in time where the current government did not start and did not start. Today we can read the results on the headlines of all newspapers: Slovenia lost 20 cities on the competitiveness scales; Slovenia has fallen most of all and is in crisis, although it should not be so deeply affected by the specifics of the Slovenian economy, it has hit it the most. Far from taking advantage of the crisis as an opportunity. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we wanted to help the Government in the beginning, we offered it a partnership of two plus ten, a short-term partnership, that is, during the crisis, and a partnership in structural reforms that are also needed. The government has arrogantly rejected this and today comes with laws that are actually a complete bluff. Tax reliefs for research and development at the time of profit are in fact not completely empty. Increasing tax relief may only have some symbolic effect, but not in fact. Government - I told you on the Economics Committee, good morning. You are not aware of the situation in Slovenia, obviously with such proposals, which are totally unconstant. In fact, on the proposal of such opposition measures a year and a half ago, you listed 100 reasons why this could not be done, after a year and a half when the train left, when the delay was enormous, but when you no longer arrive with this proposal we proposed at the time. And there's one more thing. In addition to the introduction of tax relief for research and development, you also propose tax reliefs for employment of workers who are more difficult to employ. Why is it harder for those who work? Offer tax reliefs for the employment of the unemployed, those who are located at the employment agency which receive monetary benefits from the institution, and, on the other hand, encourage employers to pay tax also with tax incentives to employ the unemployed. However, you have introduced only tax reliefs for the most difficult to employ, where the definition states that it is more difficult to employ someone who is more than 6 months in the employment agency, which means that someone must first use and smoke state money to end up being entitled - to the employer he wants to hire - to tax relief. So, pointlessly and this is not an anti-crisis measure, this could be some normal measure, as it promotes employment of the more difficult employees always and forever. You say that this is the law of the exit strategy, the exit from the crisis, Slovenia falls and falls and is in crisis more and more, before I heard that the Greek scenario will not happen again, I hope you will finally miss out on not being so insolent in this country's debt. Slovenia's biggest increase in public debt is seen in 2008 and 2009 - by 59%. On average, the European Union increased its debt by 14% and Greece by 16% and us by 59%. It is fortunate, you can praise God, in the government and the ministry, that you expected this crisis with relatively low or one lowest public debt, that is 22.6%. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have tried to rectify this law with amendments. We have proposed, at least at a symbolic level, 100% tax relief for research and development. We are aware that at a time when there is no profit, it is only an illusion that this will have any fiscal or other financial effect, but it is a symbolic clear message. We have proposed that tax breaks apply to all unemployed and, in particular, to those who are more difficult to work, and we have proposed tax breaks. Slovenia should now encourage those who wish to take the legal path of managing the activity to do so by exempting the tax for the first few years. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have very mixed feelings about this inconsistent, bad and actually very late proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trophynik will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Amendments and additions to the corporate tax law are included in the package of financial laws under the exit strategy programme. The proposed amendments and additions to the law first introduce a general tax relief in the form of a reduction of the corporate tax base of 45% of the wages of employees over the age of 55 or under 26 for a period of 24 months, provided that they have been registered at the employment agency for at least six months. Another time. The current R & D facility is increasing from 20% to 40%, while maintaining a regional relief of 10% and 20% respectively. And the third time. It amends the system of taxation to sources of interest on debt securities by introducing exemption from tax on sources of interest, provided that the securities are issued by companies established in accordance with the rules in Slovenia, provided that the securities are not interchangeable and are placed in an organised financial market or traded on a multilateral system within the EU or the OECD. All three amendments to the Law on corporate income tax will apply for 2010. In the parliamentary group, we will support the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. The bill deals with three areas: promoting employment of certain categories of persons; exempting interest on debt securities at source; and promoting investment in research and development. It is important to encourage the employment of unemployed people, but it is even more important for us in the SLS Group to create appropriate conditions for businesses to be able to operate successfully and thus provide jobs for as many people as possible. Employment in Slovenia alone will not bring progress, which is probably what we all agree on. In the SLS, we welcome the promotion of investment in R & D. You've finally woken up, you might say. In January 2009, February 2009 and April 2009, the Slovenian Democratic Party proposed exactly the same solutions regarding the promotion of investment in development and research, and you uncompromisingly rejected and opposed them, stubbornly opposed them. I wonder what is different today, that you are now coming with the same solutions that you opposed a year ago. Of course it's different! The situation is much more worrisome than it was. And, unfortunately, you're late again. If we adopted such a solution last year, we would already want the results this year, since companies would already be able to draw up appropriate development projects on the basis of these incentives. This is how we come back too late with these measures. The effects that should be manifest today will be visible and tangible only in the future. Let me remind you, we have also proposed amendments and additions to this law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group in order to encourage the economy to invest. And that almost a year ago. Of course, like our colleagues in the SDS, we were unreservedly rejected, and our good intentions even marked as political, harmful and counterproductive, if you are stealing from us our precious time with your stupidity. We have proposed a time-limited measure to increase the amount that could be invoked as an investment relief for all companies. Of course, as always and usually in this national assembly, we were cruelly rejected. It's this porch that's taking us in the wrong direction. It has already been mentioned that Slovenia, on the world competitiveness scale published every year by the Swiss Institute for the Development of IMD Management, has gone back to 20 cities. It has been ranked 52nd among 58 countries. What do you think of that? Nothing. Last year we proposed these measures to you three times. We've proposed these measures three times and a quarter of an investment relief, and you've been making a fool of us. We will support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Well, hello, everyone here. In the DeSUS Group, we find that the amendment of tax laws is extremely attractive, since we have three tax laws in front of us at this meeting, and the law currently under discussion is the last one in this mandate, and we are not yet in the middle of it for the past seven years. Even more interesting is the fact that in most of the innovations, including today's, this is a tax relief for investing in R & D. And one could conclude that we are already experts in this area and that all the arguments for increasing this relief or against it have been made public. As has already been said, this time the changes to the basic law have also led to an increase in tax relief for investment in research and development, from the current 20% to 40%. In doing so, I am obliged to recall the previous position of the DeSUS Group on increasing this relief. In the DeSUS Group, we have always felt that such proposals are acceptable, that they contribute to the burden of the economy, at all times of global financial crisis, to increasing liquidity, to promoting an investment economy and, consequently, to further quality development in difficult and changed situations. Unfortunately, however, most of the proposals were not designed in an acceptable way. The current proposal is supported by a strong argument which is acceptable to our Group of Members and will therefore receive support as they follow the objective to which they are intended. The second novelty is a new relief for employment of some of the more difficult categories of persons. It is for persons under 26 years of age and persons over 55 years of age, subject to additional conditions that the person is registered with the employment agency for at least six months and that it is an indefinite period of time. In this part of the bill, according to our assessment, it is well thought out, since it also includes safeguards against the possible abuse of this tax relief by employers. With all these proposals on increasing tax reliefs, even on the newly proposed tax relief for employment, we cannot go beyond the fact that we are facing a decline in the fiscal inflow from corporate income tax, as compared to the same period last year, that is, in the first four months this year, this inflow represents only 39.4% of last year's amount. Such a reduction in the tax inflow was not yet expected by the Ministry alone. Data on losses are even more visible than 120 million per year due to tax fraud or system-wide tax evasion. We therefore appeal to the competent at a higher level of activation in this area. Let me finish. The DeSUS Group will support this bill's proposal with a view to decommissioning the economy at all times of the global financial crisis and with a view to encouraging the investment economy and thus improving the quality of development and greater competitiveness of our economic operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u30	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! It is true, however, that it is not true that it was wrong for the Government and the coalition not to listen to the opposition as a proponent when it really submitted this content to the hearing. I hope that we will or that you will learn at least one thing from this: that we stop what is proposed from the position of the opposition is bad and we will reject it on purpose. This does not produce results and this time the conclusion that this law is too late is true. And I would expect the government to analyse in its work the reasons why the opposition's proposal was not adopted at that time. It analysed only and only to find out the reasons and to be cautious in the following proposals of the opposition. On the other hand, the opposition is and will be acceptable to all those laws that are governmental, coalition, which it will consider to be good. This law on changes and additions to the law on corporate income tax, although very late, I hope not too late, is acceptable. It is acceptable from the basic fact that it allows the exemption of interest on certain debt securities at source to promote employment and promote investment in research and development. And yet I'm going to ask again. The representative of the Government very rightly explained on the working body why the first amendment of the SDS Group was not acceptable when he proposed 100% relief or - yes, for investment in research and development. Correct! Because 100% already have reliefs, that's an extra one. I'm in a very calm line here, and I'm not going to insist on supporting the amendment. But I am giving everyone thought to the amendment, the second amendment of the SDS Group, which actually raises legitimate questions. Why make it easier for those who are committed, or employers, to give with restrictions? Why only for that group up to 26 years old and that group over 55 years old? Why? Why wait six months and then make it easy? That's right. Why? And a third why. Why can't this one go to the same hostage? If the employer was with me, with my work satisfied, he came into trouble, he put me on hold, the story unfolds in a positive direction with this law, the employer will be relieved; yes, of course, I will be the first good worker to take me back, and we limit it - for security reasons, the possibility of speculation. They've always been and always will be, and they'll be everywhere. Don't limit it. When we limit this law, which, once again, is basically good, with a group of up to 26 years and over 55 years, we are already promoting the grey and black economy again. Because those who will not take it home, if they take only those up to 26 and those above 55, will enjoy the state aid and will enjoy the work of 'travel', in black, will make a good profit, this practice shows, twice as much as those who will accept the job and pay the taxes fairly. It's not right! And this amendment would be worth supporting. We will support him and fight for him, and we will also support this law, thereby demonstrating the will and desire that the situation in this country will indeed change for the better.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u32	Once again, thank you very much for your words, Mr President. And, unfortunately, no colleagues! If we were to think seriously about everything we have heard and said today, then we would see that we are all too often involved in political connotations and messages rather than concrete solutions. This law and these solutions are a concrete step in the right direction, so they will have all the support of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. One old proverb says that when you have something else, you save money, economic and financial, and you adjust your weight and effectiveness to the real situation. And if the situation is getting worse, the measures are stronger, but if the situation is emerging from the crisis, the measures are milder. So much for defending and explaining our thinking and voting in the various legislative proposals so far. The proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on corporate income tax and the related Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law introduce additional tax reliefs in the field of research and development and easier employment of more difficult groups of people. We both think we need and are doing well, so we support the proposed solutions, especially those in the area of introducing increased incentives for investing in R & D. Because in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we firmly believe that only permanent investment in research and technological development can be the driving force that will soon lead to the progress and brighter future of our economy. Such thinking must be maintained despite or precisely due to acute crisis situations. Therefore, twice as much as 20% to 40% of the existing relief will certainly be welcome, which in practice means that companies will have great burdens if they choose to invest in R & D activities, and that is what we want. At the same time, additional regional facilitation is maintained. It is important for us to stress and attach ourselves to thinking about an additional tax relief for employment of more difficult groups of people, which we also consider to be a major, important and positive measure, especially in the light of the reduction in the rate of unemployment. General relief in the form of a reduction of the tax base for corporate income tax is imposed for new employment of more difficult categories of persons, i.e. persons under 26 years of age and over 55 years of age, which are groups with a lot of difficulties in finding employment. The amount of tax relief will amount to 45% of such person's salary, but is limited to the maximum amount of the tax base. It will be possible to apply two years of individual employment. Already in the case of the previous law governing the tax procedure, I have mentioned that there is also a solution in this law to the possibility that, under certain conditions, exemption from the calculation of the deduction and payment of the interest on debt securities is proposed. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we expect the current increase in tax relief for research and development to be a long-term fiscal policy measure, as it is essential that we send a clear signal as a country that research and development are at the heart of the future and growth of the Slovenian economy. Above all, technological modernisation and the development of products with a higher added value are the competitive advantage that can lead us among the most developed countries in the EU. On the European innovation scale, Slovenia made great progress in 2009 and is a group of so-called innovative trackers. But we still have the following goals to join a group of innovation leaders. For this very reason, increasing investment in research and development is of great importance, and of course, we have unitedly attached all these efforts to the proposed legislative solutions in the parliamentary club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bogdan Chapič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. It's a nice greeting to all of us in this room. The Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act will be supported by the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. In view of the labour market situation resulting from the financial and economic crisis, the economic situation, the necessary incentives for promoting development and economic growth and the necessary social reforms in view of the long-term sustainability of certain systems, such as pensions, health and so on, it has proved necessary to take appropriate measures also in the tax area as support measures to policies in those areas. Indeed, the Government has taken quite a few measures in certain policies, both employment and research and elsewhere. Can I?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u35	Mr. Visjak, let's be decent, please. Let him present his position. Here's your word. Go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u36	I hope I get this time back. As a result, the new Income Act imposes additional tax reliefs on independent entrepreneurs for the employment of the first job seekers, permanently unemployed and over 55 years of age, and is, of course, in substance linked to the tax laws that we are considering and adopting today in the National Assembly. All these laws are also part of the government's exit strategy, which we adopted earlier this year, all in order to become a competitive economy with incentives for fostering development, economic growth and, of course, with the necessary social reforms, also with the sustainability of certain systems, such as the pension system, which needs to be reformed. Due to the need to restructure the economy, to increase its additional value by increasing its investment in R & D and thus to economic growth, the Government proposes to increase the overall R & D relief from 20% to 40% of the company's R & D investment. It is true that such relief has already been proposed, but it has not been accepted and is now acceptable. Yes, it is now acceptable because it is intended for investment for development in the future. Now that these investments are supported by certain funds from the budget, it is also necessary to encourage investors in the tax area to decide to co-finance the productivity of investments, which of course was not the case in the previous government. Despite the crisis years we have increased more than 100%, the previous government, which had enough money, has not encouraged these investments with incentives. The proposal, which was adopted at the beginning of 2009, envisaged that the benefits would apply for 2008 as well, and we were aware that there would be no specific development investments in 2009 and therefore, of course, we rejected it. Tax relief for investing in research and development is being implemented in the form of a reduction of the tax base and consequently of income. This is a relief aimed at development in the sense that only certain investments qualify for facilitation, namely investment in R & D. It is estimated that the benefits and costs incurred in this regard are also linked to the amount of relief that can be imposed by the debtors if they have investments that are considered to be R & D. It is a developmental measure that allows for further growth. Tax policy easing is only part of the measures already taken by the Government when it has, of course, provided additional resources to promote research and development and to promote and employ all categories of people. Amendments to the Income Act also concern the taxation of interest on international debt securities. It is proposed to exempt income for non-residents from interest earned on debt securities issued by companies established in Slovenia. The proposal gives precise definitions of interest on debt securities, some relating to exemption for non-residents and a different way of collecting resident taxes. Interest on such securities received by residents shall remain taxable and it is proposed that the tax shall no longer be paid by way of tax evasion, but in a different way, that is, by the assessment on the basis of the resident’s pledge. The abolition of the obligation to pay tax withdrawals is an additional measure aimed at facilitating access to finance, i.e. the cheaper borrowing of banks and companies at home and abroad. Such a measure may also have a indirect impact on ensuring a more stable situation in the domestic banking market, thereby increasing the dynamics of lending to the non-bank sector and the further recovery of the Slovenian economy, strengthening sustainable economic growth, creating new jobs and thus increasing competition. The proposed solution should follow in substance and technically the arrangements adopted at the beginning of this year for interest on debt securities issued by the Republic of Slovenia under the law governing public finances. For all of this, the Social Democrats Group will support the proposal for a law amending the Income Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 4. POINT OF THE DAY’S ORDINATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE LEGISLATION LAW. The proposal was tabled by the Government. I call on the representative of the Government, Ms State Secretary Matejo Vraničar, from the Ministry of Finance to provide additional explanations.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Another third from a package of tax laws that regulate the same subject matter. The labour market situation resulting from the financial and economic crisis and the economic impact and the necessary social reforms, particularly those needed for the long-term sustainability of the social insurance system, also requires the adoption of appropriate measures in the tax field as support measures to other policies in those areas. We therefore propose a new general tax relief in the area of taxation of the income of natural persons in the field of income from activities for the employment of certain categories of persons and an increase in the general ease of investment and development. The solutions that we are proposing in this area are identical to those in the area of the corporate tax law that we have just dealt with, so I would not explain them in more detail. The second set of amendments introduced by the amendment of the Income Act concerns interest on issued debt securities. In this area, we are abolishing non-residents' taxes and changing the way in which income is collected from these incomes achieved by residents. The following needs to be said in this area. This is a change in the tax treatment of interest on international debt securities following the proposed exemption from tax evasion in the proposal for a corporate tax law. We propose to exempt the payment of income for non-residents from the interest accrued on debt securities issued by Slovenian companies. Interest on such securities received by natural persons shall remain taxable, and it is proposed that income is no longer paid by way of tax evasion, but by other means. This is a dose based on a resident's pledge. For reasons of consistency with the current arrangements, the Tax Procedure Act is therefore also amended in the collection work. This proposal does not apply to interest on debt securities issued for compensation in accordance with the law governing denationalisation. The income from such interest achieved by residents and non-residents is already regulated in a special way and does not change with the proposed law; it is paid with a tax deduction. Your Honor! In view of the above, I propose that you adopt the amended proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. The report of the Committee will be presented by Vice-President Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Greetings from the Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee considered the draft law at its 23rd urgent meeting, on 17 May 2010. It was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments on the provisions of Articles 1, 5 and 6. The amendment was tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Article 1 and by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members to Articles 2 and 3. In the introductory addendum, the explanation of the articles, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance stressed that the substantive solutions are the same as those contained in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation on the Income of Legal Persons. However, since there is a slightly different dose flow in the income line, the individual solutions reflect these differences. In an additional explanation for the opinion, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service stressed that the amendment tabled by the coalition groups took account of the comment made to Article 1. However, the comments of the service to Article 6 are not taken into account, which draws attention to a nominally incorrect and unnecessary reference to the basic law. The substantive debate on the proposed solutions and on the amendments tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group concerning the increase of the R & D relief to 100%, the enforcement of the Employment Allowance for all unemployed and the increase of the relief for under 26 years and over 55 years of age to 70%, and the introduction of tax breaks for taxable persons in the first three years of business, was held by the Committee at the same meeting in the context of the consideration of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons, the urgent EPA 1026-V procedure. In the context of the consideration of Article 6 of the proposed amendment to the Income Act, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service reiterated the need to delete the provision of the amended Article 62, in which only the title of the article is amended, but the Committee did not adopt its amendment on the basis of this proposal. In accordance with Rule 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and adopted the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 1 but did not adopt the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Articles 2 and 3. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. The adopted amendment is included in the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Mr Villa Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Amendments and additions to the Income Act constitute a sister or a parallel law to the earlier law on corporate income tax and cover the same substantive solutions as the law on corporate income tax. First, the introduction of a reduction in the tax base, then secondly, increases the already existing aid for investment in research and development, and thirdly, the tax system on the source of interest on debt securities is changing so that non-residents are excluded and the dosing process changes for residents. All three amendments to the Income Act will apply for 2010. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposed amendments to the law, although their expected financial impact is relatively small, but all economic operators should be treated equally and encouraged to invest in research and development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav. [[He won't.]] Position of the DeSUS Group, Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. This third part of the tax package also deals practically with the same solutions, including the amendment of the corporate tax law. It is therefore a matter of increasing the tax relief for R & D investment from the current 20% to 40%, introducing a new tax relief for the new employment of a particular category of persons, meeting the envisaged conditions that serve as a safeguard mechanism against the abuse of that institution and amending the taxation of interest on debt securities. Members of the DeSUS have already expressed our support and concerns for these proposed solutions when they present their views at the previous point, so I will not even repeat them at this point, as they remain the same. At the same time, we would like to draw attention to the social function of the country, which is also constitutionally recorded, particularly in terms of the increased engagement of the State in finding solutions or the way out of the financial problems of the ordinary person, who has also been grabbed and grabbed by the teeth of the financial crisis that has plagued us. Many people today are at the brink of survival and are forced to live or survive with minimal incomes that often do not allow a person to live a life worth living. It's not our opinion to take this the wrong way. We certainly do not contest the State's aid offered to legal persons, economic operators, who are certainly required to survive and stay in the economic world. Finally, ordinary Slovenian citizens depend on the development of the Slovenian economy, whether they are students, workers or pensioners. We also recognize that the Government is working to help this part of the population by raising the minimum wage, by active employment policy and what else could be found. Unfortunately, however, we note that some of the Government's actions are going in the opposite direction, in the direction of reducing human rights, limiting their rights, even damaging many. Here I am thinking mainly about the social field, especially pension, and health care. Why am I bringing this up when this point is being considered, let me explain again? Because today it is necessary to offer a hand and help not only the economy but also the fellow human being. As far as the support of this bill is concerned, as has already been said, the DeSUS Members will support and support the conclusion of the working body on the appropriateness of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u46	Much has been said about the content of this law, namely, the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Income Law was already in the former law. But it would be good to say another word or two. In fact, I would very much like to continue where I have somehow ended up in the previous law, because with the proposal of the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Income Act, we are also pursuing the goal of reducing unemployment, i.e. by a measure equal to that of the previous law, with tax reliefs to employers who will employ certain structures of people, I would like to draw attention to the data that are evident in the Income Act and which are not in the previous law. It is important to point out that according to data from February in Slovenia, thank God for not more than 100,000, but 99 thousand 700 unemployed. And this structure inside shows exactly the statement I made earlier. The most unemployed people who should be able to work and help and thus prevent the grey economy are people between the ages of 26 and 39, 34%. So the mass that's not included in this aid. We also see that most of them are 50 years old and older. This is also evidence of who we think should be the first to help them with such a tax policy. Another content that I would like to highlight or express in this law is that when assessing the situation and the reasons for amending and supplementing the Income Act, during the assessment of the situation and the reasons, it is also stated that taxation of the income of natural persons is an area that requires ongoing monitoring due to the objectives pursued by tax policy, due to problems arising from the implementation of the law and due to the reason, it reads: "...and also because they are the result of establishing compatibility of national legislation with European law". I am surprised, however, that again I see no reason to determine whether it is compatible or incompatible, because we know that a single monetary policy and fiscal policy is left to individual countries in the European Union. This way, I think it would be better if we focused on Slovenia rather than looking for possibilities for coordination with Europe. Then I would say that not all the gold that shines is not all the good that Europe speaks and writes. However, since this law will allow for a cheaper borrowing of banks, inter alia, both domestic and foreign companies, it may indirectly affect the provision of a more stable situation in the domestic banking market, an increase in the dynamics of lending to the banking sector, hopefully – the recovery of the Slovenian economy, the strengthening of the sustainability of economic growth and the creation of new jobs and the increase of competition, it is right to support such a law. At the same time, I stress once again, purely apolitically - let us consider the categories of those whose employers will be assisted with tax relief for employment. Let's think this through, 'cause this is supposed to be all unemployment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Once again, a good-bye to everyone. As with the amendments and additions to the Law on the Income of Legal Persons, the proposal for amendments to the Law on Income will also benefit from the support of the Club of the Liberal Democracy, since both laws deal with similar solutions, as we have already said in the introductory statements, in the Liberal Democracy Club, we welcome them. This is also about supporting an increase in tax relief for investment in R & D. If Slovenia wants to be one of those economies in Europe that are best rated, most advanced and also yield good results, it is important and necessary to agree on these solutions. On the other hand, in our view, it is also in the right direction to seek relief for more difficult groups of people. It would be ideal if we had a magic wand so that at some point we could help everyone at once. However, as always in life, when we have a limited amount of resources, we direct them to where the smallest possible investment achieves the greatest effect. But when we follow the laws of the social state, it seems important to tell me that we support those who already have a lot of problems. Therefore, in our view, support is more difficult for those who work on the spot. Let me finish. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia believes that both measures are good and appropriate to have a positive impact on the crisis start-up of the economy, making life easier for many people, so they will receive our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors are here! The proposal to amend tax legislation restores tax incentives for employment into the Slovenian tax system. These tax incentives for the employment of the first jobseekers and the long-term unemployed were abolished in the previous term. We have opposed this in the Group of Social Democrats because of the negative effects on the labour market. For this reason, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that there is a need to introduce employment benefits from 2010 as additional employment benefits during the recovery period will also contribute to the increase in employment, particularly those that we consider more difficult to employ. During the easing of employment, the Government repays relief for the first job seekers and young people up to the age of 26. As part of the strategy to promote the employment of older groups of people, the Government proposes a relief for people over 55 years of age. This will promote the preservation of the largest working population, which will positively affect pension funds and will follow the basic objectives of the emerging new pension reform, which foresees longer employment for the elderly. Relief for long-term unemployed workers is also coming back. This relief is particularly important from the point of view of the anti-crisis measure to promote the employment of the permanently unemployed. On the basis of the latest data from February 2010, potential employers will be entitled to this benefit for more than 58 000 unemployed or for a good half of the unemployed. To facilitate the employment of the first job seekers aged 55 years and over, employers will be entitled to almost 75 000 unemployed on the basis of data from the Employment Institute of Slovenia. In the Group of Social Democrats, we want this to be a good incentive for employers. It is also an important prerequisite for the application of incentives, since the employer has to hire the worker indefinitely. On the basis of this condition, it is proposed to promote employment for an indefinite period of time, which is particularly important in terms of job security. Temporary employment increases the risk of poverty on the part of workers more than unspecified employment. For this reason, it is also important that we return the social democrats with benefits to promote employment for an indefinite period of time. In any event, it should be stressed that the proposed tax policy measures are positive for employment, in addition to the active employment policy and structural reforms in the labour market prepared by the Government for greater employment and greater resilience to external impacts or sometimes quite shocking. In view of the need to restructure the economy, to increase its added value by increasing investment in R & D and thereby increasing economic growth, it is proposed to increase the overall R & D relief from 20% to 40% of the investment in R & D. In doing so, it should be stressed that the anti-crisis measures adopted in 2009 have brought about a shift towards a significant increase in state resources for investment in research, development and innovation. The adopted 2010 budget also provides for an additional increase in R & D resources in the share of gross domestic product. With tax and budgetary policy, the government will strongly encourage the investment of resources in research and development, which is necessary to achieve technological breakthroughs. As these measures will help to increase employment and economic growth, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u52	Thank you very much. In fact, we have an identical law before us, only that it applies to another group of economic operators, to independent entrepreneurs. Tax policy is good to leave as long as it takes for economic operators to get used to it and to be predictable. Except in two cases: where taxes are reduced and a more tax-friendly business environment is made and radical changes occur. The crisis must have been the reason for the intervention in tax policy. In fact, this is not clear to some and they believe that certain tax reliefs should be maintained all the time, even when the record number of unemployed is. In fact, when there is no work or when there are no workers, there are still some who keep tax breaks for employment. This is typical evidence that they do not realize at all that tax policy must also be part of a policy that also responds to environmental issues. That is why, of course, we proposed at the beginning of this government's mandate, because there was a crisis because there was a drastic decline in economic activity, in order to promote economic activity through tax relief, through a reduction in the general tax rate, through the introduction of tax reliefs and through increased tax incentives for research and development. We weren't listening. The government is now coming with, in fact, similar but significantly less effective measures. Look where such a policy has led. Competitive breakdown. We fell in 20 places. This line shows how Slovenia fell through competitiveness. And if we look at how the competitiveness was moving in the period 2003-2004, we fell, then 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008, we grew up, we really improved competitiveness, and now we're falling again like stone. If the trends of the previous government were maintained and at least listened a little to our policies, then they would probably not be affected today by such a fall. More. When we read the answers of ministers, we can see that some people are not aware of the situation at all. When they talk, talk, yes, it's finally time for serious structural reforms. Serious structural reforms are likely to improve competitiveness in 5.10 years in Slovenia. What has contributed to such a major decline in competitiveness? The fall of gross domestic product. What has affected the fall of gross domestic product? Of course, export activity declines, not least, a significant reduction in foreign direct investment and a decline in economic activity and demand at all. What measures did you actually take last year to tackle this drastic decline in competitiveness? None. And the result is here. And again, it's either the former government's fault or I don't know who's to blame. Just not you. And now you're proposing, of course, through the Income Act, partial solutions, which, for the first time, are not going to help much. In fact, the one who was shivering is without actually being able to devote anything to tax relief. Tax relief was an appropriate measure at the beginning of the crisis, and we also proposed it. Remember, the well-respected government and the coalition, that as the previous outgoing government, we have left you four laws, two of you have passed, the law on banking and public finances, two have not adopted. Two who have gone into tax relief and whose part you are now summarizing through this amendment of the Income Law. But the consequences are here, and the consequences are painful. The problem is that the government is not really aware of the consequences. In this country, you only deal with how to share, not how to create. A typical case was made yesterday when a solution was adopted after the social dialogue, which will once again have an impact on competitiveness. And I don't know where else to fall. From 52nd to 58th. Because only 58 cities are on this scale because there are 58 countries. Your Honor, what you're proposing is sand in the eyes, it's a delayed solution, but unfortunately it won't achieve what it's meant for. If we wanted to achieve this, we would have taken the solutions we proposed to you, leaving them to be introduced when the time was right.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u53	Mr. Vizjak, thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. We will decide on the bill today, following the conclusion of the 17th item of the agenda, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION LEGISLATION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR THE FINANCING OF THE INVESTMENTS OF ECONOMIC SOCIETIES. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The proposed law under this item aims to enable companies established in Slovenia, to acquire long-term loans to finance investments that will increase the added value of employees in society and increase the employment of this company. The lack of liquid assets in the domestic financial market and the consequences of the global economic crisis have reduced the volume of business lending in Slovenia and it will take quite some time for the level of credit to settle to a normal level. Because of their poor experience, banks are more cautious and require stronger insurance. At the same time, most companies are already burdened with mortgages on existing assets. The law will allow companies to obtain, at minimum insurance, loans which they could not obtain without a State guarantee. The law is different from the guarantee scheme law, which is part of the anti-crisis measures and is no longer in force at the end of 2010, of a long-term nature and will apply until the quota set at EUR 1 billion is used. The law provides that the State and the Bank share a risk in financing these investments by taking 75% of the risk of the guarantee state and by taking the remaining 25. By giving the State a guarantee only for the principal of the loan, which will mean that the bank itself will bear the risk of costs and possible interest and will consequently be proactively involved in the overall funding scheme of the individual project. Credits must be secured, but it is sufficient that the insurance covers only the principal and thus relieves the borrower of excessive claims for insurance, while at the same time allowing the bank and the State, as a wedding, to at least partially pay off their claims. On behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia, SID of the Bank, which is also authorised to process and store data on the financial situation of creditors, will be used to calculate the premium to be paid by the borrowers for the guarantee issued in accordance with EU State Aid rules. We assess that the adoption of the proposed law is urgently necessary in order to implement the exit strategy and gradually move to a new state guarantee regime. Due to the lack of liquid assets in the Slovenian financial market, a law should be adopted as soon as possible to enable companies to have easier access to liquid assets and thus to implement new investments smoothly. It shall take account of the above. The Government has proposed to the National Assembly that the amended proposal be adopted by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u56	Respected and respected! The proposed law will allow companies established in the Republic of Slovenia to obtain loans to co-finance investments. In view of the first-class insurance provided by the State guarantee, it is envisaged that banks will be more inclined to lend, thereby helping to release the credit crunch resulting from the global financial crisis. Banks wishing to obtain a state guarantee for the given loans will have to bear part of the risks themselves. Under the law, the state will be able to take 75% of the risk in a particular business, and the rest of the risk will be borne by the bank itself. Banks will be motivated to lend not only because of partial country risk taking, but also because of the fact that these loans can be used to secure bank liabilities in debt to the European Central Bank. Payments may not be used by companies which have outstanding obligations to the State under the compulsory duties recorded by the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. The guarantee issued shall be subject to a premium, in accordance with the credit rating of the borrower determined by the SID of the bank on the basis of a specific methodology. The State guarantees only part of the obligation. The duration of credits is limited to 10 years, the guarantee quota under this law amounts to EUR 1 billion and cannot be included in the quota provided for in Article 86 of the Public Finance Act because it is not a guarantee to credit institutions, but a direct guarantee to economic companies. Guarantees under the annual law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the fact that the consumption of the amount of the guarantee is not limited in time, this guarantee can be used at EUR 1 billion. The law also prohibits the granting of guarantees for undertakings in difficulty, i.e. undertakings which can be dealt with under the rescue and restructuring aid law and thereby obtain State aid. The law also prohibits the provision of guarantees for the purchase and sale of real estate, investment in transport infrastructure or the purchase of road traffic regulations. It is thus a clear commitment of the State not to allow the risk of constructionists to be borne to the country. Nor will credits be allowed to be used to pay obligations to connected persons. As a result, guarantees will only be made for new loans intended for new investments that will increase the value of the employee and employment. The main solutions to the law are that the guarantee, on behalf and on behalf of the State, will be issued by the SID Bank under a procedure to be regulated in more detail by the Regulation. In addition to issuing guarantees, SID shall also be empowered to monitor, inform and report on the guarantees issued and to control bank lending and the purpose of using credits. In view of the fact that the business guarantee scheme will be put out by the end of 2010, the introduction of a new instrument which will be able already in September 2010 to encourage financing of investments in activities of particular importance to Slovenia, i.e. technological renewal, tourism development, regional development, investment in environmental protection and energy efficiency and investment in R & D. The fact is that, due to the limited and small size of the Slovenian financial market, companies wishing to finance investments will still find new funding more difficult than before the outbreak of the global financial crisis. In lending, banks will give priority to those undertakings whose obligations will be more adequately secured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. That is not true, but it is, I will begin this presentation of the position of the Group of Members. I cannot be surprised at the behaviour and approach of the Slovenian Government in solving problems in the Slovenian economy. Just a year ago we passed a law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia. After the adoption of the law in the National Assembly, the Council of State adopted a veto on this law. Reason: have cooperatives been released from the beneficiary circle? Did the government proposal for a law that we are talking about here in the National Assembly contain a solution that would involve cooperatives. The question, of course, is for a million euros. Of course not. Why would I do that? Following the adoption of the guarantee scheme last year, I recall a six-year debate on whether the country will be able to buy businesses with a guarantee of the tycoon. This also led to the immediate adoption of amendments and additions to the Guarantee Scheme Act and the inclusion of various mechanisms to prevent this. Well, a new question for a million euros: has the government explicitly stated in this proposal that state guarantees should not be issued for so-called corporate buyouts? It's not. Why would I do that? At the proposal of our parliamentary group, such a solution was voted on by the home working body. But thinking was better accepted by the opposition's proposal than risking again the delay in implementing the law. Your Honor! For more than a year, we note that the guarantee scheme does not produce the relevant results. The government's response time is almost exactly the same again as when dealing with the previous problem: one year. Your Honor, one year! Efficiency and operationality at the peak. The President of the Government and the Minister of Economic Affairs will soon need to adjust the scale in public popularity, because you will soon exceed the maximum ceiling. On the other hand, Slovenia will fall out of all the rankings that measure the performance and competitiveness of countries. On the competitiveness scale, we've heard a few times today, we've fallen by 20 cities. Wrong world, you might say. Of course, we will support the proposed law because it is necessary, even though it is a year too late, but it is better than nothing. In the Slovenian People's Party, you are warned about your inactivity from month to month, over and over again. I asked the previous meeting of the President of the Government where concrete measures are to address the most pressing issues and problems of the economy of the Republic of Slovenia, about inequity, about payment non-discipline. I hope and wish that your measures for the current problems of the Slovenian economy will again not be proposed with a one-year delay, as this time we are taking measures that have been proposed three times in this house last year and gravely rejected. So where are the measures against payment non-discipline? We discussed this at an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Finance and the Committee on the Economy. At that time, some of us asked the Minister of Justice to prepare a law on enforcement for the May session, because the Slovenian economy probably cannot wait for the benefit of officials who will prepare the law when it is prepared. And in this Mayan session of this marriage, unfortunately, it is not. Perhaps in June, perhaps in July, depending on how employees and officials and those preparing this law will have time. Do you think the economy can wait for the goodwill of someone who prepares this law? I don't think so and it's irresponsible. Where are the measures from the exit strategy carried out by such pump at the beginning of February? Today or at this meeting, we are considering first measures. Should we, in the opposition, prepare measures concerning payment non-discipline and liquidity? I guess we'll have to. But I regret to say in advance that I can almost literally quote the opinion of the Government and the opinion of some members of the coalition when we consider it. And one more thing. If you're going to talk to someone else about your entire mandate and then hide your inefficiency and inoperability, then God help us. Those fat cows they're talking about, they're all "screw."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! We have before us a proposal for a new law to enable companies based in the Republic of Slovenia to obtain loans to finance investment. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal because it will allow development projects which result in an increase in added value to the employee and increased employment. The proposal for a law provides that the country may issue a total of EUR billion of guarantees for the loans that the beneficiaries provide for the financing of investments. This will enable companies to have easier access to liquid assets and thus smooth implementation of initial and new investments. In doing so, the state and the bank will share the risk. Thus, the state with the guarantee will take 75% of the risk and the bank will take the remaining 25%. Some investments are excluded from the guarantee scheme, such as the construction of real estate for resale or surrender. Investments in transport infrastructure, purchase of transport assets, financing of studies and advisory contracts and reprogramming of credits. Guarantees under this law can also not be obtained by so-called economic patients and companies providing mostly financial services. The amount of the individual loan can range between EUR 500,000 and EUR 20 million and the maturity between one and ten years. The Bank will have to set the interest rate at the rate of interest for the clients of the highest rating class of the bank. The guarantee under this law will be issued by the SID Bank on behalf of and on behalf of the State and will be dealt with by a special government commission to assess the appropriateness of the purpose of the investment and compliance with the purposes of the law. The proposal for a SID law also imposes on the Bank the obligation to monitor, inform and report on the guarantees issued. If the law was adopted at this meeting, the State guarantees could start to be issued in September, thus ensuring a smooth continuation of the aid policy for companies by issuing State guarantees, which began with the guarantee scheme. The State has already guaranteed the credit companies they hire to finance investments and operating assets, in accordance with the Law on the Guarantee Scheme of the Republic of Slovenia, which entered into force last May, but which expires this December. By the end of May, EUR 645 million of credit had been drawn from this title, an average state guarantee of 34%. In the DeSUS Group, we support this bill in the belief that it will allow for as many development projects as possible that will truly lead to an increase in the added value of businesses, which will also mean greater job security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u62	Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Yeah, we're in a circle of suction that's got some red thread that we need to pull out of that thing we've never heard or seen before. The Republic of Slovenia's contribution to the financing of companies is clearly in such a tight economic and financial situation as, in general, it is necessary to make it necessary and obvious at this point also. While, in the first place, I stress what I am already on my working body, and even today, that we are surprised in the Slovenian National Party, it would be good to have at least a few details on the level of guarantees that the State of the Republic of Slovenia has already provided to date. As far as I can tell, as far as we've been able to verify with our experts, these numbers are quite large. However, companies should be allowed to obtain loans to finance investment. The law states that the guarantee cannot be used by companies which have outstanding obligations to the State under the compulsory duties recorded by the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. From the standpoint of fairness, legality, it is logical to understand, on the one hand, that those who do not have some obligations settled will not receive credit. But again, the fact that they are not all the same is lacking. Some are debtors and poor masters of purpose and benefit, and we forget that we have a number of companies that are in a position because of the economic situation, when they want to, when they want to reprogram their debts with the aim of completing already-started investments that they cannot because they do not have enough resources. And now, with this law, with the guarantee of the state, with the guarantee of the state giving them the opportunity to rent credit, these, I will say, healthy, but only by force of opportunity will they be able to take advantage of, and there will be a consequence that will be visible in a while, I am sure, the amount of credit used on the basis of the guarantee law. On the other hand, when we look at the information that banks wishing to obtain State guarantees for the loans in question will have to bear some of the risks themselves. That's perfectly logical. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we believe that the share of the bank's risks is too small. We estimate that it would be right for the state to take 50% of the risk and 50% of the risk would be taken by banks. We will support the law in the Slovenian National Party. While this calculation is interesting, I would also like to point out that the guarantee is expected to be cashed in 2010 at EUR 70 million. I hope she's gone. I hope the country has this money, too, or will have it with a balance sheet. And calculate for the next few years that they'll be about 10 million a year. And I hope that, too, it would be best if there weren't for them and that the amounts won't be higher. Once again, why can't those who want to reprogram their debts and finish their investments and this law come to life, and I think that because of this, the use of these funds and this law will be too small.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Once again, a good-bye to everyone. Thank you for your word. Greetings also to the co-workers and co-workers of the minister, who I think are doing the responsible and necessary work and that we will also be able to upgrade the results of their work in the right direction in the National Assembly with the adoption of these laws. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we attach to them and that what is written on paper will be reflected as soon as possible in concrete measures affecting people's lives. At least some parts of the crisis continue to deepen and Slovenia is facing a crisis. One of the factors where the crisis continues to reflect strongly was the so-called credit crunch and inefficiencies of the economy. Over the past year, we have adopted several laws on guarantee schemes that have tried to mitigate this. These schemes can only be regarded as partially successful, as some of the funds under these quotas have not been distributed, and there have also been some problems with the administration and the very costs of granting credits that have been encouraged by these schemes. Today we have before us a new law on the guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia to finance the investments of companies. If the previous guarantee scheme was primarily designed to overcome liquidity problems, this time it focuses mainly on financing concrete investments. To this end, the substance of Article 2 of the Act is essential to us, which states that guarantees must not be issued for the payment of existing obligations to suppliers, banks and other creditors, the financing of studies or advisory contracts, investment in the purchase or construction of real estate intended for resale or broadcasting, investment in transport infrastructure, the purchase of road transport assets or the payment of obligations between connected persons under the law governing the company. You will ask why we point out why this is important to the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Because we expect these criteria to be in the government regulation, which will define the implementation of the guarantee scheme more precisely, and that this will be truly aimed at technological renewal, that funds will go to the development of tourism, to regional development, to investments in environmental protection, to the efficient use of energy and, above all, to investment in R & D. At the same time, we note in particular that the proposed guarantee measure must not be produced to finance other transactions for which guarantees arising from the law are not and cannot be provided for. Therefore, we ask the writers of the regulation to ask and request that the fuses be installed so that the hard-earned public funds will go for the purpose for which we are deciding here today. These guarantees must not resolve the situation in companies, because in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we see this guarantee scheme primarily as an anti-crisis measure, which is aimed primarily at relaunching the healthy core of the economy. However, an important element of this guarantee scheme is that guarantees will be issued on behalf of and on behalf of the State by SID Bank, and that is why we expect more efficient and faster issuance of these guarantees and the related provision of funds for planned investments. The Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the law. Just as we are united in this support, we are united in keeping a close eye on the implementation of this and, above all, its concrete effects in practice, because we want them and we bet on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u66	Respected and respected! Yesterday's published drop in competitiveness is a cold shower for all of us, but certainly for the government and the parties of the government coalition. However, at the time of this decline in competitiveness, it is necessary to say that the trend in the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy began in another period, between 2004 and 2008, when Slovenia had already fallen for several cities, while at the same time that Slovenia had to undertake some necessary reforms in order to boost the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, as we know, there were no such reforms. On the other hand, during that period no necessary reserves were created which could be used today by the Slovenian economy to make it easier to recover. However, due to less pressure on public finances, the Slovenian community might have more opportunities to promote the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy in various ways. As you know, our government has set itself a central objective in 2010 to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. It has therefore also set up an ambitious reform agenda within the framework of the exit strategy. And if we understand anything as the teaching of yesterday's report, it is primarily that we must continue these reforms more decisively. As you know, a number of these reforms face opposition to the important work of civil society groups. One of these was also demonstrated before parliament yesterday. We do not want to see that, in the context of further discussions and our shared awareness, we need to accelerate reforms that will increase competitiveness so that we can ensure a higher level of social cohesion and well-being in this country for our people, face the methods we saw yesterday in Parliament, and we can monitor them today at the head of the House of Slovenian Democracy. In this respect, it is particularly important for the Social Democrats, as protagonists of change, that we all ask each other together. At what point are we, what are our common opportunities, and what can we do within these options? In this respect, we remain committed to the orientations of the Slovenian exit strategy. In doing so, we stress that, as those who have advocated a strong and focused social dialogue over time, this social dialogue must be based on realistic assumptions and the real opportunities we have as a community. With the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act to finance companies' investments, we are applying the possibility of the economy acquiring a direct guarantee of the state, i.e. the state's first-class investment guarantee. For 75% of the risk of individual investment taken by the State in the scheme to be implemented by the Slovenian Export Development Bank, SID Bank. The Social Democrats clearly support this law in the ambition to accelerate the investment cycle in our country as well. We are aware, however, that this law alone, the financial market mechanisms alone, are not enough to accelerate the investment cycle in our country, that more needs to be done. And our Members and Members, on various occasions within the framework of the working bodies and at the meetings of the National Assembly, are constantly reminding us of these things. We need to do more against financial non-discipline. We need to do more to ensure that this liquidity spasm in the country fails. We need to do more in a coordinated and co-natural way, but also in quick and effective spatial planning to place investments in space. We must also do everything to increase the attractiveness of the Slovenian environment for high-tech foreign direct investment. Social Democrats will support the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia to finance the investments of companies as another measure of our exit strategy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Once again, a nice hello to everyone! The proposal for a Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia to finance the investments of companies invested by the Government in the parliamentary procedure will be supported in the SDS Group, as we are aware of the difficulties of companies in obtaining financial resources during the financial crisis when the credit crunch does not give up and liquidity problems are increasing. The Act is intended to replace the measures in the area of guarantees under the guarantee scheme which expire at the end of this year and which the Government has stated is intended to enable companies established in the Republic of Slovenia to obtain loans to finance investments by guaranteeing up to 75% of the risk of individual credit transactions. The amount of guarantees, under this law, amounts to EUR 1 billion. The duration of such a loan will be limited to 10 years. The contributions made by the State under this law will only be earmarked for investment to ensure an additional value for the employee, namely the promotion of technological renewal of tourism development, regional development, investment in environmental protection and efficient use of energy, and investment in R & D. The law also provides that guarantees may not be made for the payment of existing obligations by the beneficiaries to the suppliers of banks or other creditors to finance studies or advisory contracts, investment in the purchase or construction of real estate for the purpose of selling or awarding such assets, investment in transport infrastructure or in the purchase of road and traffic means to pay obligations between connected persons. In this regard, we have tabled an amendment to Article 2 in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, proposing that the first indent of paragraph 2 be deleted, which provides that the State's guarantees should not be granted for loans intended to pay the existing obligations of suppliers, banks and other creditors. The report on the implementation of the guarantee scheme is intended to make it clear that companies are most demanding of credit rescheduling. This is also understandable, as many companies have just started investing in the global financial crisis that has limited their access to financial resources. And investments will thus remain unfinished, as there is a lack of financial resources or loans. The purpose of credits which must be in accordance with the law shall be determined by the SID of the Bank, which is empowered to do so in Article 11, on the basis of the investment programme submitted by the Bank, previously confirmed by the creditor. The law lays down the conditions, criteria and framework procedure for issuing guarantees. However, the procedure will be regulated in more detail in a sub-legislative act, a regulation to be issued by the Government on the basis of law. For example, the regulation will also lay down more detailed definitions of the conditions for issuing guarantees, the terms of credit, insurance, the financial position of creditors and the like and other conditions that will have to be met in accordance with the requirements of the law. As I said in the introduction, we will support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, we also hope that you will support Members and Members of Parliament in our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. The proposed Law on the Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financing of Investments of Companies aims to provide a new financial instrument to promote financing of investments of particular importance to Slovenia after the expiry of the Guarantee Scheme Act at the end of this year, such as investment in technological reconstruction, research and development, tourism, regional development, environmental protection and efficient use of energy, etc. On the basis of the quality of the State guarantee, banks are expected to be more inclined to lend, at least partially eliminating the negative consequences of the global financial crisis or to release the so-called financial crisis. Under the proposed law, the state will assume 75% of the risk for individual business. And the rest of the risk will have to be taken over by the banks. The maturity of credits is limited to 10 years, with a guarantee quota of EUR 1 billion. However, individual credit may range from EUR 500 000 to EUR 20 million but may not exceed two thirds of the total investment costs. In order to carry out procedures for the approval of guarantees for the name and account of the Republic of Slovenia, the law authorizes the SID bank, which is obliged to report to the Ministry of Finance on the guarantees issued. In the Group of Members, we will really support the law, just as we supported the extension of the eligibility of guarantees on the home labour body to cooperatives and independent entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the two amendments tabled. The first amendment was tabled by the Group of Social Democrats in Article 1. I ask, does anyone want to discuss this amendment? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, chairman. The Social Democrats' Group tabled an amendment so that, of course, commercial banks would add the word "first-class" commercial banks. It is the banks with the highest credit rating rate primarily because we also provide the highest insurance, state insurance. And in doing so, we need to look out for who we are providing such insurance and why these insurance will be used later, as some banks that are not first-class and may be in trouble themselves could result in literal speculation or abuse of these state insurance. That is why we propose to write here first-class commercial banks: we add this word "first-class" and in this way we also try to protect these our guarantees in order to come for real banks and real investments.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. Chappich. Anybody else want some? Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The added value of this SD amendment is zero. In fact, we have already had in the past, and according to the criteria of Banka Slovenije we have first-class insurance, suitable, adequate insurance. So Nova Ljubljanska Banka granted credit to Ultra beyond these criteria. So, I don't know what you're going to accomplish with this, who's going to judge it, and what's going to be the effect of all this, because bankers are doing it their way. The SID Bank is also likely to be a key agent in the implementation of this regulation. And, of course, the question of added value is asked. When we ask them a question, the bankers, according to what information, why they did something, and they answer us that they must not tell us in accordance with the banking law. They don't want to say that. However, when we adopt arrangements here for various guarantees and so on, when we help the banking sector not least, of course, there is a expectation that we will understand everything. Look, the guarantee scheme that was for legal persons, I think, was more helpful to banks than the economy. The vast majority of banks have restructured their loans from short-term loans to long-term ones, and have helped themselves in some way. I know the cases - and I won't count them, but I know them - entrepreneurs were at my place when the bank offered them to go into the guarantee scheme. As a result of the decline in turnover in this company, the Bank has found that no short-term loan or medium-term loan will be paid, in short, that the company has difficulties in paying off its liabilities, it said, let's go to the reprogram and go through the country. She helped herself so much or more than she helped that economic operator. What am I trying to say? I would like to say, honourable Social Democrats, that all such words as "first-class", "appropriate" and so on are, of course, well-heard words, which no one takes into account, not even in assigning credits to one of the companies in the direct or direct ownership of the Minister of this Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Article 1? Here you go, Mr. Mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u76	Of course, all such debates and, above all, such amendments are in place. During the crisis, we missed, learned, and discovered many things that we had not previously understood. Maybe we weren't paying attention to that. And every little thing, every stone in the mosaic, to make things more precise, more specifically arranged to make less mistakes, less abuse, less exploitation, go in the right direction. I see this amendment in person, too, so I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u77	Mr. Bogdan Chapich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you for your word. What Comrade Visjak said doesn't hold. It is not due, in particular, to the possibility that the order issued by the Government contains the first-class banks. So they will already be listed and these criteria will be met, so they will not be left to anyone. It will arise and will be taken into account on some other grounds, not on those referred to by colleague Vizjak, who is disturbed by the fact that the loans granted in another affair were secured under the criteria of the bank, not under the criteria of the Bank of Slovenia, but were secured. And now they can't prove that those loans weren't insured or that they were in any way weakening the banking system. But of course this is not the subject of this amendment. I propose that we add this proposal. Because we will correctly target the credit potential or collateral for the new credit potential, which is intended exclusively for investments. I think that the added value of this law is precisely in promoting investment, not in any way in order for anyone to pay or save themselves because he had wrong decisions and he was giving credits that were not good or good.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u79	Replica, Mr. Mag. A viscous? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u80	Sure, it's true. Ultra probably had secured loans. She was insured with the name of an influential member of the current government. This was also in line with the criteria of the New Ljubljana Bank or Mr Kramar, which was obviously appropriate for the New Ljubljana Bank. Read, so, "appropriate" insurance. But what is appropriate, what is first-class and appropriate insurance, does not depend on the individual bank or individual chairman of the board or credit board. These criteria are prescribed by the Bank of Slovenia and are absolute if we want to be correct, if we want to be precise as well. However, if different family rules apply, the coalition rules are "stupid" insurance. Even if you two know each other and one of you tells him, we'll get it back. And of course, when we talk about such forms of insurance, we cannot say that there is no insurance. It's insurance. However, it is not inappropriate, not appropriate, but far from first-class as prescribed by Banka Slovenije. And that's what I'm talking about. And there's one more thing. I ask you: Does the Nova Ljubljanska Bank, which created a loss last year, belong to these criteria, namely, the first-class commercial banks? Judge? A bank with a loss? I'm asking you because you said the government would write in the regulations that these banks are. And you who propose this amendment say, "Does the bank belong to the loss of the first-class commercial banks?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u81	Mr. Trofenik, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. I think there's another problem with this amendment. I will not replicate my colleague Visiak because he always uses Ultra because Ultra and Mr Golobic will defend themselves as they should. But there's no or indirect connection to this problem. What's this all about? It's about the loan. The money is for the loan, not the bank. We're talking about a first-class bank, say. A first-class bank may grant a bad loan and a suspicious bank or a less-primary bank may grant a good loan, good, bad in terms of repayment capacity and so on. I don't think it's a good idea to hold on to the motions that this amendment doesn't belong to this first article either. Since Article 1 speaks generally of who those entities are or have been approved by normal banks and savings banks. This primacy or whatever is likely, for some other reason, to refer to criteria, is likely to fall within another article. My deep belief is that this article, this measure envisaged by this amendment, does not fall under because Article 1 merely states that the entities to which this law is intended. On the other hand, some use this amendment and other similar things always to spin some crap, which is a fact. It's important if the loan is repaid, not who approved it. That's less important. But it is important that someone repays the loan, and from this point of view this thinking, which has led to this amendment, is likely to fall somewhere else and not in this article. Without any prejudice, I do not think that this amendment can be supported for this reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u83	I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 1. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 2. Anybody want to talk? I'm opening the application. Mr. Bogdan Chapich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. We will not support the amendment to Article 2 in the Group of Social Democrats. In particular, because the purpose of this law on lending investments would in some way be to amend and become a law on reprogramming or on lending of reprogrammes. Earlier, the debater had already said that the guarantee schemes we had already adopted in this National Assembly had largely changed some of the poor insurance schemes, some of the bad credits now in a different light with different things. The purpose of this law is different. The aim is to stimulate investment. And if we don't just aim at investments and these things, this law will lose its force. Indeed, what has already been said as bad could happen if these guarantees were intended to reprogram other loans, for other purposes, not for investment purposes, and could relatively quickly use this guarantee amount of one billion. The aim is to boost investments with first-class insurance and credits which will be credited and valued in a manner that is equivalent to the best ratings and best credits, which means that they should also be slightly more favourable. And this is actually the kind of help that the economy and all those who will invest in production, in development, in new technologies actually need.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u85	Mr. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u86	Well, it's not true that this is what they need today. If we had any analysis and a picture I hope you have on the government, we would see exactly who needs such a guarantee and help today. And I will talk exactly about those that are investments, if there is already an emphasis on investments, and they have begun to be unable to complete them for such or other reasons because of the economic and financial crisis. That's the truth. Why don't you go see who you want to do today, who would ask for the State's loan guarantee today, and you'll see that there must be 60 or 70 percent of those who want to finish the investment they've started, but they can't. That's the essence of this amendment. The amendment speaks of the possibility that those companies that need funds to reprogram debts and end their investments could do so. They're the ones most needing this money. But once again, there is no black and white world here, as some think. They're not all fools who are in trouble. And not all are honest people who aren't in trouble. That's a fact. Once again, there was a lot of people in charge today. Because he put the company in charge of his own pocket. And we know exactly who they are, and no one's doing anything about it, but I'm not gonna do it now. I can count them for you myself. They reprogrammed and trusted themselves to divert that money. But those who have done the right thing - many of them have come into trouble today cannot complete the investments that would lead to a new economic momentum. And then who's gonna need that guarantee and credit?Oh, my God! Tell me who! The one who has his own resources?Oh, my God! He's not stupid enough to take credit and pay interest! The smart master will invest with his own resources. Then who needs this loan and this guarantee?Oh, my God! Who? That is why I think it is right and fair to consider this amendment and to consider whether or not there are some criteria when even one that, after the second paragraph of Article 2, is able to delete it because it is possible to examine its state, what kind of debt I would like to reprogram, what an unfinished investment is. [[...]] And it would be fair to help him. Many people already helped today, but he didn't deserve it, so we were quiet. At least let's give it a chance, at least let's give it a chance, but not that we're going to adopt a law that's important at the moment, and it won't serve anyone. Me and the Slovenian National Party believe that this amendment to Article 2 should be accepted and supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u87	Mr. Istok Podkrzyžnik, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In the parliamentary group, we support this amendment and I think it is really necessary to think carefully about what these companies actually need this guarantee. The predecessors have said a lot about this, and I am also saying that these are companies that are 12 years old, which have been operating on the market for decades. And these companies have had to and still have to finance these investments in technology equipment today. It seems to be developing in fact from an ongoing business. Because banks still have this reaction time too long. So if the buyer wants to have from a particular supplier or manufacturer tomorrow 20, 30, 50% more quantities delivered - it is said - this manufacturer must invest in the equipment immediately, it is said, today and make this bigger traffic, get these pieces. For if he does not deliver these pieces, even the day after this company will no longer be strategic in this supplier system. And this seems very important to me, and I think that this amendment needs to be supported here, because there are three quarters of such companies that are really the pillar of today's Slovenian economy, and this economy needs this amendment. And that's the problem. The other thing is that in the past a lot of resources have been devoted to these'man gangs' is called small businesses, entrepreneurs, when they started doing something new. They have received grants, and today they are out of work, and the problem will also be the return of these funds. That is why I say once again that you support this amendment, because the Slovenian economy needs it and this is also Slovenia's withdrawal from this crisis. This is about mature companies and businesses with their own development and good markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u89	Mr. Rado Likar. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. So my opinion is that it makes sense to support this amendment. If we want the law to achieve its purpose, then it is only right to include the reprograms in this law. Of course, for the purposes envisaged by the law, not for - I would say - any investment. It has already been mentioned in the debate - some of whom - I will say - are surprised by the crisis and want to complete these investments - I think it would be a good thing that these guarantees are also given for existing obligations. The proverb says that the person who once burned himself will then, just in case, inhale sour milk if it is hot. And I think that if this amendment were to be adopted here, it is my opinion that we might be afraid to include these reprogrammes in order to make use of it. However, I am sure that - I would say - there are some mechanisms that might prevent this potential exploitation and perhaps even if we go, who speculates and who doesn't, that if an entrepreneur in these times of crisis decides to invest in new ones, it may be more speculating than someone who started with investments - say, two years ago, three years ago, but for various reasons, he failed to do so, with the possibility that he could also be guaranteed a rescheduling of these loans, they would also contribute to a lot of businesses or an economic company to be rescued from the crisis. I therefore propose that you accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u91	Mr. Willie Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. When I first read this law myself, I also thought the most about the provision which speaks of the prohibition on the granting of guarantees for credits, which would also be intended to pay the existing obligations. Of course, I am sure that it is right that this law encourages new investments, mainly investments that will be highly technological. However, I think it is at least right to complete investments that have not been completed. Those who didn't fall for speculation. This is also necessary because it is not just about economics. It is also a social issue, and it is also a financial problem that we would solve in this way. Now it seems to me like we want to use this definition to somehow make a cross over the present, where there are the most problems. And if we can't solve these problems, I don't know how we're going to make new investments. I, however, support the proposal of the law. The law has very important ambitions regarding a good supportive environment for those who are meant to invest in a new one. It's also good for banks, because they're actually going to take very few risks. The risk will be small, as they will be able to obtain these guarantees and loans only the best. This was also the purpose of the guarantee scheme when it was first proposed and has not yet been amended by the Committee on Finance. What is also good in this law, and I support the law, is that it somehow determines, otherwise only in the introduction to which investments it will give priority: research, development, technological development. It will give priority to tourism, give priority to environmental investment and efficient use of energy, and at least what I lack here, are, of course, renewable sources of energy, as we mention. Otherwise, in my judgment, it is the lack of this law in that it does not contain in any of the provisions of this law, even in the explanations, not and that we refer here to the exit strategy. So the commitments are very modest in the law itself, as far as directing these investments is concerned. Why I think there is a need to ensure, and therefore I also support the amendments tabled, the funds for those who still need to meet the existing obligations. There's a lot of reasons for that. First, - I think - it is clear that it is best if the investments are completed. They complete their economic cycle and move into what we call consumption when it is intended for some of our needs. The other thing that is very important here is that we must not forget that in these companies, these companies, which will now be limited or prevented from accessing credit guarantees, probably employ a large number of people for their existing obligations. And if this investment is not completed, if the need for workers to be abandoned again arises, there will be a need for social transfers on the part of the public finances. I don't think these are the best solutions anymore. The third reason that leads me to support such an amendment that has been proposed is the reason we call financial discipline. By preventing some from accessing funds in this way, financial discipline will certainly not improve. Well, the payment chain won't improve. Perhaps it will break even more, which is bad - I would say - both for those who are good companies and for those who are now struggling with major problems. If I do. My vote as far as the law is concerned is yes. However, I would be happy if an amendment were adopted, which I will also vote for, because it would not dramatically change the basic ambitions of the law, but would extend the beneficiaries of these guarantees to those who now have major problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u93	Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Personally, I am a little embarrassed when I listen to the arguments for this amendment, and I have the feeling that we are not aware that the law on the future financial instrument that we are supposed to enforce in the future is under way, and we forget at the same time that we are currently in the process of - if I may say so - of the Guarantee Scheme Act, which is not yet spent by all means, how much information is available and this advocacy for existing programmes is more appropriate there. On the other hand, I have the feeling that they are not purely intended with this amendment without the desire to be embalmed with authors or proponents. In a way, it is contrary to their constant intentions to prevent the misuse of guarantees for some open problems, I will be very mean. If you enforce this amendment, you will be able to save the Conchs in the following year. But that's a really mean comparison. I don't know, the proponents made it clear that the ambition of this law is to provide guarantees and thus encourage investments that are of particular importance to Slovenia, not any, but those that are of particular importance. If there is a problem at the moment, it is a problem to obtain appropriate loans for new projects because banks are first dealing with logically themselves. From the point of view of bank resolution, it is also logical to offer whether they are stimulated in some way or interested first in reprogrammes, because this is one of the hopes that they will receive the reimbursements they have granted. Neither personally nor otherwise will we support this amendment, because it goes directly towards the basic intention of the law - as I personally understand it - to promote investments of particular importance in the future. The investments currently under way need to be reprogrammed and the law - which applies - on the guarantee scheme gives all the options. So much for this amendment. We won't support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u95	Madam Secretary of State, Matthew Vraničar, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I would like to comment briefly on the amendment, although I will repeat several things that have already been said today. The main purpose of the law is to contribute to investments that will provide added value and new jobs. The proposed amendment amends the content of the law to the extent that, in our view, the content of the law would be contrary to the objective and purpose for which the Government proposed this bill to the National Assembly for admission. The guarantee scheme law is intended to raise the issue of re-reprove credits that have been leased before the crisis and cannot be repaid by companies as a result of the crisis. And even now, companies having difficulties in repaying existing loans may, in accordance with the provisions of the Guarantee Scheme Act, propose or participate in the implementation of such programmes. Only as additional information should I mention that there is currently an open scheme or an open quota through which companies can also apply for debt reprogramming. And this quota will be open - I think - by 21 June. The funds for this purpose are still available. However, if we look back at how the quotas have been used so far, we can see that around 23% of all the guarantees issued under the Guarantee Scheme Act have been specifically designed for the reprogramming of credits. Finally, with regard to the proposed amendment, I must also mention the European dimension. The Guarantee Scheme Act, which also provides guarantees for the reprogramming of credits, has been notified to the European Commission as State aid. Through Shivanka's ear, we were able to convince the European Commission, because of the reasons for the financial and economic crisis, that this is a permissible measure and that it does not impede free competition in the internal market. If, in this proposal, a law which is not limited in time and which is aimed at a way out of the crisis rather than mitigating the consequences of the crisis, the same measure would be included, it would in fact expose itself to possible problems and problems relating to compliance with State aid rules. And this is also one of the important reasons why the Government opposes the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u97	Mr. Blackach, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! As the second paragraph of Article 2 is amended, the other provisions of the law remain in force. If I did, then such an amendment would actually be problematic. But you don't. The first paragraph of Article 2 shall remain. This, however, refers to the financing of investments in development projects, which result in an increase in the added value of the employee and allow greater employment, which must be reflected in the investment programme and so on. This is also true in the case of the so-called reprogram. And the concrete response to the concretely exposed dilemma, no, the Contingency will not be financed if this amendment is adopted. For the pillars of the stadium do not meet any of these parameters, which are mentioned in the first paragraph of this law. This is not about any increase in the added value of an employee. It's not about any more employment and so on, but it's about redistributing some capital from one boiler to another. However, it is some economic operators who could, if this amendment were adopted, maintain existing jobs through this law. However, it is likely that the main purpose of this law is to preserve existing jobs on the one hand, to enable the employment of new people and to enable the continuation, completion and implementation of new investments. But obviously this is not the government's policy, which is why you reject this amendment, too. Because in recent days, we are witnessing that, at the forecast of a rebalancing that is supposed to decelerate expenditure, that there has been a red light on all those projects called investment projects that are currently under way. At the Ministry of Transport, all projects, those announced and those for which tenders have been issued have been stopped, even those for which operators have already been selected and even those for which contracts have already been signed. This means that the government is panicking, that it has no clear direction. And no wonder the data coming in the last few days is that the question of whether we are no longer the Greek script. We just don't have reliable data on the table today. This amendment is not harmful, useful and in relation to all other provisions of this Act I think it can be implemented in the right way.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u99	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u100	Very briefly today, because there is no time. I agree that the added value and new jobs must be taken care of. At the very least, it is necessary to know that existing companies are also creating added value and that there are jobs that need to be maintained. Employment conservation is very often much more costly than job creation. As far as the Guarantee Schemes Act is concerned, it has a deadline, until the deadline for companies to expire, not all will be resolved and a new law would allow them further assistance through enlargement.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u101	I conclude the debate on this amendment. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER REFERENCE OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE AMENDMENT LAW, IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members with the first-signed France Bogovic. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Čepić, a member of the Committee. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! At its 17th session, 5.5.2010, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Audit Act, submitted by a group of five members with the first-signed Mr France Bogovic to the National Assembly for consideration by a proposal for a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 54th meeting, on 26. 2. In 2010, it decided that the law in question should be examined on a regular basis. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, in addition to certain general ones, such as more appropriate arrangements for solutions at systemic level, consistent definitions of the audit institution, together with the implementation of the relevant mechanisms to ensure the necessary expertise, independence and impartiality of the Joint Audit by the Joint Liaison Office, shall provide further specific comments on Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the legislative proposal. At the same time, the Committee, earlier on the Government's opinion on the reasons why the solutions submitted do not express support or take the view that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. According to the assessment given, the Association does not meet one of the basic conditions, in particular the condition of independence, as it carries out a series of activities for its members which establish relationships of dependence. On the other hand, it would be such as to carry out an audit of the accounts under the Audit Act outside the legislative framework of the Sectoral Directive, which would constitute an infringement of the provisions on audit firms and their management and, in particular, an unlawful intervention in the independence of such operations. Since Slovenia has already notified the basic Audit Act to the European Commission, at the same time, amendments submitted for nostration would be most likely to be deemed incompatible with the European Union acquis. In the context of additional work materials, the Committee was informed of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, which, taking into account the opinion of the Government, did not support the proposed law. After a lengthy discussion and on the basis of the above-mentioned rejection opinions and the announced vote on the proposal for a decision that the proposed law was not suitable for further consideration, the Committee considered that it was a multi-layer issue which was not addressed under the Audit Act. On the other hand, due to the discussions presented by the various interpretations between the financial and agricultural resources responsible for the treatment of matter with the same targeted orientation, which is in the parallel national assembly procedure, the question of the adequacy and the possibility of introducing proposed solutions in the Cooperatives Act is reopened. In the direction of a general solution to the problem identified in the subject area of cooperative audit, the Committee, on the basis of the debate held, first adopted a decision on a proposal for joint preparation of the relevant systemic changes addressed to the Ministry of Finance and Agriculture, the Institute for Audit and the proposers of the amendments under consideration. On this basis, it also concluded at the end of the hearing that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Revision Act was not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the law's proponents, Mr Franz Bogovic, for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother's working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u104	Good afternoon, Madam Vice President, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In adopting the recent amendments to the Cooperatives Act, we have come to the conclusion that the problem novelty of the Cooperatives Act is that it has eliminated a joint audit on the basis of the Audit Act and on the basis of Directive 2006/43/EC. The most recent Law on Audit has transposed into the Slovenian legal order a directive laying down rules for the functioning of the public control body as a supervisory authority between auditors and audit firms and introducing additional professional criteria for the control of the quality of the work of auditors and audit firms, which should have been updated and replaced by a new one at the time. However, in some parts of the revision law currently in force, it is more stringent than the directive, which would not be necessary, since the directive allows national legislators to organise certain matters in their own circumstances. In addition to many positive amendments, the Audit Act also provided that the audit can only be carried out by audit companies which are registered as companies under the Company Act and have the applicable authorisation of the Slovenian Institute for Auditing and Provision of Audit Services. It has also been established that the cooperative provides the audit services of cooperatives under this Act not more than 12 months after its entry into force. We consider that there are no formal obstacles to the further development of a joint audit, as this Directive does not restrict the performance of the audit in the light of the legal form of the audit firm and speaks only of statutory auditors and audit firms, while the Auditing Act provides that audit services can only be performed by an audit firm which is only an economic company or an independent auditor. However, Directive 2006/43/EC even explicitly provides that cooperatives may be audited by the entity to which the cooperatives are incorporated, which means that there are no reasonable indications that the membership of the entity subject to the joint audit would constitute an unacceptable derogation from the requirement of independence of the audit firm. We have therefore proposed amendments to the Audit Law because we believe that the audit of cooperatives after audit cooperatives is a particularly cooperative organisation and one of the elements of the cooperative principle of membership management, which is also based on the comparable arrangements of the joint audit in Germany and Austria, where audit cooperatives can also carry out the audit of cooperatives after the implementation of the Directive. However, we also proposed the law because, according to the Legislative and Legal Service, the content cannot be regulated only in the Cooperatives Act that we discussed yesterday, but it is originally necessary to amend the law on auditing. So we followed the advice. However, we are disappointed to note that all good purpose has been in vain, as has been so far since a good law was proposed by the opposition party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you very much for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. I give the floor to a representative of the government. Ma'am mag. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! With regard to the proposed law, it should be said that the Directive on statutory audits for annual and consolidated accounts provides that the statutory audit shall be carried out only by statutory auditors or audit firms authorised by the Member State requesting a mandatory audit. We are therefore talking about a mandatory audit. By adopting the Audit Act which transposed the Directive into the Slovenian legal order, the cooperative has lost the status of the audit company because it does not meet the conditions laid down by the Directive and the law for audit companies. One of the main requirements laid down by the Directive is that the audit firm must be independent in the implementation of the statutory audits and must not be involved in the decision-making of the audited entity. In this respect, one fundamental difference is between the drafters of the law and the opinion of the Government. The Government considers that the tasks carried out by cooperatives in accordance with Article 49 of the Cooperative Act for their members indicate a relationship between cooperatives and cooperatives. In the view of the Government, it cannot be concluded that a cooperative relationship could be independent in the implementation of mandatory audits. It should be noted, however, that the audit regime, as set out in the Audit Act, still allows for the implementation of the audit in cooperatives, as auditors who fulfil the conditions can be organised in one of the legal organisational forms provided for by the law and carry out their tasks further. It should be pointed out that, in other words, the cooperative should meet all the conditions for audit firms. This also means that it would be subject to supervision and possible sanction by the Slovenian Institute for Auditing or the Agency for Public Auditing. The applicable auditing law lays down the conditions for the registration and operation of authorised auditors and audit firms and the supervision of their work. When assessing the proposed law, it is also necessary to ask whether it is appropriate to take into account all international auditing standards and other audit rules as applicable for the largest economic operators in each national economy when reviewing cooperatives and in a similar manner. The revision of the Audit Act, which regulates the statutory audit, does not mean that, in addition to the mandatory audit of the accounts carried out by independent audit firms, it is not possible to establish an additional specific cooperative audit, which will operate in the form of an internal audit service at the level of the cooperative. The Slovenian Institute of Audit and the Ministry of Finance have already found in the preparation of the Audit Act that the types of cooperatives set out in the Directive are not present in Slovenia. Any joint audit dealt with in the Audit Act in the part of the coordination with the Directive would therefore be contrary to the provisions of the Directive. Your Honor! If I briefly summarize the government's position once again. The Government considers that the cooperative relationship is not one of the entities laid down by the Directive for the performance of the statutory audit tasks. Nor would a cooperative relationship meet one of the basic conditions of auditing, which is a condition of independence. In accordance with the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposal for a law and supports the proposal for a decision drawn up by its mother's working body. We therefore propose to the National Assembly that the proposal does not support and adopt a decision that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Following is a presentation of the position of the members of the groups. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u108	Thank you. Dear President! Dear Secretary of State! Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Audit Act. The basic law in the field of auditing is the Law on Auditing, which was adopted two years ago. The latter, in addition to many positive changes in the light of the previous law in this area, also provides that the audit can only be carried out by an audit firm registered as an economic company under the Company Act and which has the applicable authorisation of the Slovenian Institute for Auditing and Provision of Audit Services. It is also stipulated that the Cooperative Association provides services for the audit of cooperatives under this Act not more than 12 months after its entry into force. The proposer disagrees with this last mentioned cooperative arrangement. It therefore proposes to reintroduce a joint audit. It is clear from the current regulation that the law did not provide for specific arrangements for the joint audit and provided only for a transitional period after which the cooperative which obtained the authorisation to carry out the audit under the previous law may provide the audit service no more than 12 months after its entry into force. It considers that the reintroduction of a joint audit would follow the principles of fairness, impartiality, professional orientation, confidentiality and business secrecy and the general responsibilities that are important for ensuring their professionalism and independence. It also considers that the specificity of the joint audit represents its subject matter, such as the identification of the property position, organisation and operation of the cooperative, and also includes the revision of accounts adapted to the specificities of cooperatives, and enables cooperatives to facilitate the economic benefits of members as a basic purpose and to contribute to faster risk detection. It also lists the substantive reasons for the joint audit. The DeSUS delegation did not assess the importance, expertise and justification of the applicant's arguments to the extent that it supported this proposal when considering the draft law. We have assessed that the arguments of the Government and the State Council, which do not support the proposed solutions, are valid and are based on the European Directive and the basic principles on which it is based. We also believe that the possible re-introduction of a joint audit would undermine the basic conditions of audit, in particular independence and the gap between the auditor and the auditor in the audit process itself. Although the law in force did indeed cause the cooperative to lose the status of the audit company. However, it is necessary to take into account here that the adoption of this law followed the principle and conditions of the EU Directive, which lays down specific provisions for audit companies. The proposer of this novel also proposes an amendment to the Cooperatives Act with the same aim and solutions. Since we cannot agree with this idea and the proposal does not satisfy the basic principle of audit law, we consider that the law is not suitable for further consideration. We have therefore decided that in the DeSUS Group, we are voting that the law is not suitable for further proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic on behalf of the SNS Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Unlike other colleagues in the Slovenian National Party, I do not see any material elements in this law. As far as I am aware, this audit problem arose in the consideration of the Cooperatives Act, where this content of the audit was not to be judged and was then said to be part of the Audit Act. Well, today, when this content is given in the Audit Law, we're listening to the same story that it doesn't belong here, and that, if I understand correctly, maybe I could judge where it used to be, but then it didn't judge where it was. So I would be asking here just - I think I've been stressing for the past week - that it would be very nice if sometimes the ministries could get a little bit of alignment between themselves - that the left hand knows what the right hand is doing. Identifying now what is right and what is wrong - once again - is of the essence that more revisions, less opportunities for left-wing transactions, for prohibited transactions are important. They're cleaner jobs, more mistakes are discovered. This is my position on audit services and procedures. However, as I say, once again, this law will concern each and every one of us in particular to decide how to vote. Because we see that there is, above all, a discrepancy between ministries and that we do not know where it belongs. Of course I don't think it's your fault. Your duty is the content, not that one ministry says it has to go to marriage, from one marriage to another, but that ministry says that I am not a judge and that it has to go there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Once again a pleasant greeting and thank you so much for your word. The Liberal Democracy Club will support the conclusion that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Revision Act is not suitable for further consideration, if this law comes again and again - either to the committee or to the meeting. The essence and basic principle of each audit is that it is, of course, independent. And then the results are right and good. However, all those who have difficulties in their business or who wish to be eliminated and corrected in the future have a number of possibilities for internal audits and more. It is the twin marriage in the amendment proposal and the completion of the cooperative law. With these amendments, the proposer would like to establish a system when the Liaison Office is able to carry out a specific audit, which is contrary to the already adopted amendments to the Audit Act. I hereby base the proposal on the fact that the joint audit is special because of the subject matter of the audit. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, however, we believe that the revision law currently in force is appropriate, as it provides a fundamental principle for us, Europe and the world in the implementation of the audits, which is the principle of independence of audits. And that is exactly what will prove to be the biggest problem in the special audits of the Joint Association, since the implementation of this principle of independence in practice in Slovenia cannot be implemented. This is about the close connection of the Joint Liaison with the auditors themselves. The Slovenian Institute for Audit and the Ministry of Finance, in the light of European legislation, has also found in the preparation of the Audit Act 2 that the types of cooperatives laid down by the European Directive are not present in Slovenia, which would result in any joint audit being dealt with in the Revision Act 2 being contrary to the provisions of this European Directive. The extension of the set of entities that can carry out the audit of the audit accounts in the field of the Audit Law 2 contrary to the provisions of this European Directive would therefore be such a solution as we propose, contrary to established practice in Europe with financial statements and so on. The provisions contained in the applicable Audit Act governing the statutory audit do not, according to the Government, mean that, in addition to the statutory audit of the accounts carried out by independent audit firms under the Cooperatives Act, it is not possible to establish an additional cooperative audit which will operate in accordance with the principle of self-help, such as the form of internal audit service at the level of the Cooperative Association. That's what we advocate and support. In this context, we have also adopted a decision on the home working body to propose to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Slovenian Institute for Audit, in cooperation with the proposer of the amendments under consideration, to address the problems of cooperative audit in a comprehensive manner, in order to jointly prepare an appropriate proposal for systemic changes. This is a complex subject that needs to be addressed in an appropriate and professional manner, in particular in accordance with European legislation and the basic principles of auditing, namely independence, non-relationship, legality and fairness of statements. As has already been said, at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we will vote in such a way that this law is not suitable for further consideration. We will, however, be aware of the importance and importance of the cooperative system for the whole of Slovenia and of the Slovenian economy, as well as the development of agriculture and rural development in the future, support possible professional solutions that will regulate the optional joint audit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Čepič for the position of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Have a nice hello again! The Group of Members, which forwarded to the National Assembly a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Audit Act, aims to reintroduce a joint audit in the Audit Act. In the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats, this cannot be incorporated into the Audit Act. The Directive on statutory audits for annual and consolidated accounts provides that the statutory auditors or audit firms authorised by the Member State requesting a mandatory audit shall carry out the statutory audit. By adopting the Audit Act, which transposes the Directive into the Slovenian legal order, the cooperative has lost the status of the audit company because it does not meet the conditions laid down by the Directive and the Audit Act for audit companies. For the Directive provides that the cooperative, as defined by the European Cooperative, as defined in Article 1 of Council of Europe Regulation No 1.435/2.003 of 22 July 2003, is the statute of the European Cooperative or any other cooperative required under Community legislation, such as credit institutions set out in point 1 of Directive 2000/12EC and insurance undertakings within the meaning of Article 91694/EC, paragraph 1 of Article 2 of Directive 91694/EC. The cooperative relationship is not one of the entities laid down by the Directive for the performance of tasks and for the mandatory audit. Nor would the Joint Association meet one of the basic conditions of auditing, which is a condition of independence, since it has performed a number of tasks for its members through which a relationship of dependence is established. However, the requirement of independence would not be met because the Cooperative Association, whose members are cooperatives, would be subject to the audit of the accounts and thus revise its founders. In view of the debate at the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy on the regulation of joint audit, we have found that this will have to be amended in the Cooperatives Act, since the Joint Alliance cannot carry out an external audit of the accounts as provided for by the Audit Act. Of course, the Cooperative can provide other services, such as internal control, but the Cooperative can't provide its own independent audit report at the same time, so that their financial statements are true and fair because they are not guaranteed independence. Here we are probably united as to how other countries have this solution. None of the comparable countries listed in the material have this resolved in the Audit Act. All other countries have this resolved in special laws. And that is also what we are to the Ministry of Agriculture and Social Affairs, when we have rejected the proposed law, to combine the audit because of all the specifics and also because of their smallness and therefore do not need to have an external independent audit, as laid down in the Audit Law, with all compliance with international auditing standards, but to resolve it in their own way, but in the Cooperatives Act, not in the Audit Law. Small cooperatives under the Audit Act are not statutory auditors. And what can be specifically regulated in the Cooperatives Act cannot be called an independent or audit. In view of the fact that the Finance Committee has adopted a decision to propose to the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Slovenian Institute for Audit that, in cooperation with the proponents of the amendments under consideration for a comprehensive solution to the problems raised in cooperatives, a corresponding proposal for a systemic change will be prepared together, the Social Democrats' Group will support the negative decision of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u116	Again, thank you for your word. On the substantive side, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Audit Law is closely linked to the proposal of the Cooperatives Act, which we discussed yesterday. In addition to many positive amendments, the Audit Act, which was adopted in 2008, provided that only audit firms registered as companies under the Company Act could carry out the audit and have valid audit permits from the Slovenian Institute. It was also established that the Joint Undertaking, which provided external audit services prior to the entry into force of the new law, shall do so no more than 12 months after its entry into force. In the opinion of the applicants, a simple deletion of the provisions following a joint audit would result in a break of more than 100 years of joint audit tradition in Slovenia. They also consider that the view that the Joint Alliance does not fulfil the fundamental condition of independence under the Directive and that the audit carried out by the cooperative relationship so far may not distort such dependence under those provisions of the Directive is justified. The cooperatives are, of course, members of the Association and can be linked to different interests, both equity and financial. However, if we judge independence according to these criteria, then the same question may arise for, say, the Court of Auditors as the Supreme Court of State Audit, which controls the Government and the Ministry, i.e. those institutions which are considered to be state-owned and in some ways its founders. Directive 2006/43 of the European Council does not provide for an organisation of supervision but lays down only principles. Therefore, in our view, there is no obstacle to re-entering the possibility of joint audit in the Audit Act, of course, provided that the Slovenian Institute for Auditing has been authorised to provide these services. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will vote against the conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The purpose of the proposed amendments and the amendment of the Audit Act is to enable them to re-initiate or re-initiate a joint audit to be carried out for cooperatives by the Joint Alliance. The existing Audit Act adopted in 2008 summarises Directive 2004/43, which provides that the audit firm is independent in carrying out statutory audits and must not be involved in the decision-making of the audited entity. In the light of the provisions of Article 49 of the Cooperatives Act, it is not possible to claim that the Cooperative Relationship would be independent in the implementation of statutory audits, as it is dependent on the said Cooperatives Act. While the proposed legislation understands Directive 2004/43 in such a way as to allow for a joint audit, the Slovenian Institute for Auditing has already found that these types of cooperatives referred to in Directive 2004/43, which are referred to by the proposed amendments, are not easy in Slovenia. Next. The existing Audit Law still makes it possible to carry out audits in cooperatives, only that auditors eligible under the applicable law must be organised in one of the legal organisational forms provided for in the applicable Audit Law. At the same time, it is true that, in addition to the mandatory audit of the accounts under which a smaller number of Slovenian cooperatives fall, the possibility of appropriate amendment of the Cooperatives Act is to establish an additional joint audit in accordance with the principle of self-help or the form of internal audit. For this reason, we will support the decision of the parent working body in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob President on behalf of the SLS Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleague and colleague! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will not support the Committee's decision that the proposed Law on Amendments and Complementation of the Audit Law is not suitable for further consideration. At the same time, let me say that in the SLS Group, we are disappointed at such a conclusion. The most recent amendments to the Audit Act did not provide for specific arrangements for joint audit and only a transitional period has been laid down, after which the Joint Undertaking, which has obtained an authorisation to carry out the audit under the previous Act, may provide audit services no more than 12 months after its entry into force. Since the joint audit is specifically regulated in the Cooperatives Act, the legislator in the process of adopting the Audit Act was obviously based on the assumption that it would be possible within one year of the implementation of the Common Regulation Act to carry out a peer review in accordance with Directive 2006/43 in a law that would align the specificities of the joint audit between the issues set out in Regulation 1435/2003 with that Directive. When the SLS Group wanted to harmonise this content and proposed amendments to prevent the termination of the joint audit at the time of the adoption of the last amendment to the Cooperative Law, it was repeatedly said that amendments could not be supported because they did not comply with the Audit Act. Therefore, this time in the SLS Group, we have also proposed amendments to the Audit Act, which would allow for the Joint Audit. It is said that this is still not enough and the arguments and inconsistencies of the Cooperatives Act and the Auditing Act are still being cited. Finally, let me just say that in the SLS Group we had a good intention to regulate the area of joint audit and that you agreed with the proposed solutions when the last amendment of the Cooperatives Act was adopted in coalition parties. Unfortunately, on the Committee and today, again in the foreground, there are unfounded arguments against which we are surprised and disappointed in the SLS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 17. On the other hand, the proposal for a law on the growth of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, D. D. In the amount of EUR 300.000.000 from the leased loans and issued bonds for the financing of the Slovenian Indemnification Society, D. D., In the summer of 2010, under the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Ma'am mag. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor! I have to cut back a little bit to start with. By means of the Denationalisation Act and certain other regulations, the Republic of Slovenia transferred to the Slovenian Compensation Society part of its liability under compensation for denationalisation procedures, compensation to victims of war and post-war violence and compensation for investments in the telecommunications network. To this end, the State of the Court provided the resources for the payment of these obligations, in the form of shares in companies transferred to the Court in the proceedings owned by these companies. By the start of the global financial crisis in 2009, the Court of Sales and Management of Company Shares had successfully fulfilled its obligations. However, due to the financial crisis, the market value of shares in the management of SODs fell significantly in 2009. In addition, the SOD sold most of its liquid and portfolio investments between 2004 and 2008. The remainder of the assets, however, mainly represent investments which the Government does not consider appropriate to sell. These are investments that could already be identified as strategic in the light of future legislation, such as investments in Petrol, Luka Koper, Krka and similar companies. In short, the SOD is currently unable to cover its liabilities under issued bonds by selling shares. However, until the situation in the financial markets is calmed down and there is a re-increasing of the stock value, it must bridge this period with different types of financing, in particular debt. With the Guarantee Act, we will primarily provide the Slovenian Compensation Society with money to refinance the existing legal obligations under the already issued bonds and newly issued bonds SOS-2E, RS-21, RS-39, in accordance with the depreciation plans of these bonds. The Slovenian compensation company needs up to €300 million of cash to settle its outstanding coupons and is planning a debt of this amount in 2010. In doing so, the company will not be in additional debt by issuing a new bond issue, as it will go to the main part to repay the existing debt. On the basis of this, the Slovenian Indemnity Company must be provided with a guarantee for loans or bonds that the company will rent or issue in order to fulfil its legal obligations. The source of the payment of the credit obligation will be the purchase from the sale of the assets of the Slovenian Indemnity Company, which will result from the sale in the following years. In the course of the long-term debt procedure of the Slovenian Indemnity Company, the guarantee will be able to achieve the optimal conditions for the debt and thereby reduce the opportunity costs of the leased loan. In accordance with the above, we propose that the National Assembly adopt the proposed law to enable the financing of SOD for the purpose of fulfilling the obligations which the State has transferred to the Slovenian Compensation Society under the applicable legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Čepić to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u124	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye again! The Committee considered the draft law at its 17th session. 5. 2010 It was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments on the uniform use of bonds in the title of the bill and in individual provisions. The term "costs" is also not uniform in comparison with the meaning of the same law of last year, which uses the term "credit costs". As a matter of regular legislative procedure, there is also a lack of explanation by the applicant as to why the law should be enforced the following day after publication, since it is an exception to the normal 15-day period of application as provided for in the Constitution. Qualified applicants have not tabled amendments to the law submitted within the time limit. The Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group has proposed to withdraw its consideration of this proposal from the agenda of the Committee. In its explanation of the proposal, the representative of the delegation stressed, inter alia, that, in view of, in particular, the long-term stability of public finances, restrictiveness in the allocation of State guarantees would be necessary; that there is no answer to the question whether the borrowing of credit is the only way to settle the SOD's obligations, which has considerable assets and can be resold and thus settles its obligations; that prior to deciding on the proposed law, a more detailed analysis of the measures or activities of the SOD to provide the necessary financial resources for the divestment of certain strategic or portfolio investments would be needed. The Committee on the Withdrawal of the Point did not support this. The view was expressed that, during the transitional period, until the establishment of the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia or until the adoption of the Capital Investment Management Strategy, which will clearly define which strategic and portfolio investments are and how the State will deal with them, it is necessary to ensure the normal financing of the legal obligations of the Court and therefore the proposed law must be adopted. In the introduction to the explanation of the proposed law, the Minister of Finance drew attention, inter alia, to the fact that by the beginning of the global financial crisis, the Court had successfully fulfilled its legal obligations under the responsibility of holding shares and that the market value of those shares had fallen dramatically in companies with a crisis. In addition, the SOD sold most of the liquid investments over the period 2004-2008. The rest of the assets, however, represent the majority of investments, which according to the Government's assessment can also be strategic Petrol, Luka Koper, Krka. Until the situation in the financial markets is calmed down and the value of the shares does not increase, the SOD cannot finance its obligations by selling shares, but must bridge this crisis period by a different way of financing. Mostly with the debt. Therefore, credit is a meaningful way of financing commitments, and it is also very well insured, and is not in fact at risk from this point of view of the budget. The discussion on individual articles stressed, inter alia, that the second guarantee of the State is for the current obligations of the Court in this mandate, with the total commitment from both packages reaching the amount for the debts of all Slovenian municipalities for a number of other projects. It was mentioned that there was an additional debt on the account of the resolution of the current liquidity of individual systems, not on the basis of developmental progress, and that no other funding options for the Court's obligations could be avoided. The Minister of Finance, present at the meeting of the Committee, stressed that last year's amount of guarantees is included in the total quota of EUR 300 million, as it is essentially a reengineering of this debt with a significantly more favourable interest rate. With regard to the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, the representative of the proposed law was reminded of the fact that the use of bonds in the marriage text was difficult due to the alternative use of terms for two different instruments. So, loans that are leased and bonds that are issued. However, the reason for the proposed period of application of the law is that the necessary procedure for the examination of the law submitted was initially envisaged following a change in the decision of the Government on the procedure for processing and the implementing provision was not amended accordingly. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. Since the Committee has not adopted the amendments, the National Assembly proposes that the draft law be adopted in the text tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u126	Thank you for your input, Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly. For the last time today, when we present our views, we meet behind this stage of speech. Now, as usual, every law must first look objectively at what it brings, what, why this law is actually being dealt with. It is therefore a matter of providing financial resources for the payment of the legal obligations of the Court. Of course, the man then asks why, with the help of the State, because, then the explanation, the sale of capital investments will not follow the dynamics of the Western liabilities of the Court. According to the Court of Justice, the conversion of assets into monetary deadlines and the risks of time and value mismatches should make this law mandatory and must be adopted quickly. The first question to us, then, when we read further that the global financial crisis caused a drastic decline in the value of Sod’s assets, was that the decline in shares and shares in Sod’s portfolio made it impossible for some companies to sell. Of course, we ask ourselves first whether it is, and if, where exactly is the divided division, which are - say - portfolios and which are strategically important values that the Court has, and what are the plans of the Court, of course, both with each other. That's good to know before a man makes a decision. In addition, the second question arises whether the flow of aid to the State is, given that the situation will stabilise within two or three years, whether it is the right direction or not. The amount envisaged is EUR 300 million, now that the situation I have been able to verify since 2009, the Court already has a state guarantee of EUR 180 million with seven annual repayments. Anyway, these are big numbers. And the other means - as far as I know - this amount, as much as the amount owed by all Slovene municipalities to many projects that municipalities must carry out and still receive on their shoulders without State aid. A man has to be careful, and we're careful about that. However, if we draw the laziness parallel that is, I quote: 'credit a meaningful way of financing commitments'. And if I draw a parallel with the content of the law or with a doubt that we had just before the Audit Act, where the State guarantee excludes the way the obligation is financed, it seems to me, of course, the issue of equality here, in which no one can get a loan guaranteed by the State if it reprogrammes debts or closes it and thus closes the unfinished investment. In this case, however, the situation is quite the opposite. In fact, man no longer understands whether we really want to help those who are doing bad, so that we can all live better together, or whether we want to help only one. But I must say, personally, as far as expression such as Kad, the Court, capital companies, is concerned, I have a very bad opinion. In this case, I will not personally or support this law for personal reasons. However, colleagues from the Slovenian National Party will decide on their own.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u128	Thank you very much! Good-bye to all of you. Important subjects, and we're moving past them very quickly today. It is also interesting what they say about this law, where different opinions are being fucked, and what we consider to be the following in the House of Liberal Democracy. In the parliamentary procedure, the government sent a proposal for a Republic of Slovenia guarantee for the Court's obligations amounting to EUR 300 million. This law will, on the one hand, provide financial resources for the legal obligation of the Court. The guarantee is envisaged to ensure that loans or bonds can be leased more cheaply, thus reducing the opportunistic costs. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia in these times of crisis, we do not support additional burdens or possible burdens on public finances, even from the point of view of public finances. On the other hand, we are also aware that it is not the best time for the Court to settle its obligations by selling the assets it has in management. This is simply a fact that the situation in capital markets is not favourable. What's more, it's extremely unpleasant. In addition, we must take into account the fact that at the Court's portfolio, out of all capital investments, the projected strategic investment represents more than 90% of this portfolio. Therefore, the settlement of the Court's obligations to sell in bad times would certainly be even more risky and additionally risky. In adopting this law and in the light of opposition's opposition, we point in particular to the great obligations that the Court's great obligations stem from the Denationalisation Act. Ladies and gentlemen, if we were to draw under the line, how did we fix what was right morally and honestly correct and what price would we all pay together, then we would be appalled. It is not a fact that there are many legal procedures at the border. It has also been shown that some have already returned something that they have once received and that in a number of cases the compensations have gone beyond what was actually and unjustly taken away. Therefore, those who oppose this liquidity must also know that they implicitly oppose the settlement of such obligations. However, if we return to the law itself, it is also worth mentioning the fact that a guarantee to the Court has already been approved in this mandate, for which it was explained on the committee that the guarantee provided for by the present law already includes last year's guarantee and that it is a reengineering of that debt with a significantly more favourable interest rate. Despite some serious and reasonable reservations related to the risk to public finances, we will support the proposal of the Court in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club to ensure liquidity and smooth settlement of the obligations of the Court, because we believe that this is the least bad solution under the circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u130	Respected and respected! We Social Democrats have always been critical of the chosen model of denationalisation in the Republic of Slovenia and have repeatedly tried to change this model by actually correcting the injustices, but they have not significantly damaged our common interests, that is, the countries. The main reason for the adoption of the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act for the obligations of the Slovenian compensation company is to provide the necessary financial resources to pay the legal obligations of the Slovenian compensation company. The Slovenian compensation company has to settle the legal and contractual obligations of investment in shares and shares of companies and banks and other financial institutions acquired in the process of the property transformation of companies with purchases and on other grounds, but cannot sell them now due to substantially changed financial circumstances. Of all the capital investments, however, the country’s projected strategic investments in the Slovenian Compensation Company portfolio represent more than 90% of the portfolio and are impossible to settle the Slovenian Compensation Company’s obligations in the coming years without agreement with the State regarding the withdrawal from strategic investments. As a result, the State guarantee makes sense because it is necessary to establish a capital investment management strategy for the country, including investments made by the Slovenian compensation company. However, it is also pointless to sell investments at this time because they would be sold below the price. The financial deficit of Slovenia's compensation company will thus not be financed only by short-term indebtedness, so it will be necessary to provide long-term resources with a leased loan or by issuing bonds. Without the State guarantee for the issue of bonds or the lease of loans, the Court will not be able to obtain the appropriate resources. The Guarantee Act will thus make it possible to provide financial resources for the legal obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society in 2010 with loans or bonds of EUR 300 million. In the course of the long-term debt procedure of the Court, the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to achieve the optimal conditions for the debt and thereby reduce the opportunity costs of borrowing credits. In the event of payment of the guarantee obligation, the Republic of Slovenia shall be entitled under this law to reimburse the amounts paid. The law also sets out the method of insurance provided by the Republic of Slovenia, since the State and the Court will further regulate it by a special contract. The law takes into account the principle of a good employer in work relating to the terms of the debt, which must be comparable to the conditions for comparable loans with the State guarantee and in the work relating to the guarantee insurance, where, in accordance with Article 75 of the Public Finance Act, the Ministry of Finance with the Borrower concludes a specific guarantee contract. The implementation of this law will not give rise to financial obligations for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, since the Republic of Slovenia will not be subject to this new obligation as a marriage. The direct financial implications for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia could only arise if the Court itself did not repay the loans or repay the bonds in accordance with the contractual arrangements and the obligation to marry would be enforced. For these purposes, adequate funds will be provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia under the budget line of the Ministry of Finance. The Group of Social Democrats supports the proposed law, despite the fact that the adoption of this law will temporarily increase the country's debt, since the Court also belongs to the wider sector of the country, it seems to us that this is a better solution than that of selling or selling strategic investments today even at a price.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u132	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present! It seems that further parliamentary sessions at each meeting will discuss the additional indebtedness of the country and therefore the additional obligations. And this marriage that we have on the table today is also talking about it. It refers to the fact that the State does not have sufficient assets to ensure the implementation of legal obligations under laws adopted in the past. In doing so, we must agree that it is probably not a problem of the laws that have enacted to return stolen, but that the problem of the laws adopted by the former LDS government in 1992 to 2004, which allowed dedicated individuals more or less from this party and related parties to them to come to our former common property in a relatively short time. We are talking about 300 million euros, about as much as Slovenia has recently dedicated to Greece. Not long ago, I think a year ago, in this National Assembly or because the Slovenian Democratic Party opposed it, we passed the Guarantee Act, which allowed the Court 180 million guarantees. It is said that the total is EUR half a billion in a year. This is as much as the debt of all Slovene municipalities for all years ago and for investments that in all cases amounted to some new added value. In this case, we are talking about half a billion euros to be allocated to current operations, to ensure liquidity, to service current liabilities. It is normal that such a law cannot be supported. It is abnormal, however, that the government comes with such a law for the second time in a year to the National Assembly. As we speak of the need to adopt a comprehensive strategy, a comprehensive way of managing and managing state property, and we only witness in a bad half year a single law talking about the Agency for the Management of State Investments, and then yesterday we considered a law dealing with a small part of this problem again in a specific, unique way, without the law having all the elements required by the procedure in the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There is no guarantee that this money, which, in our view, will ever be returned to the Court, will ever be returned. It is true, however, that it is now part of the entire state property, as the Court has also been transferred by law to the Capital Investment Management Agency. And that this great sum will also be lost. The latest data recently published show that Slovenia has suffered the biggest drop in the last year. According to a number of indicators, we fell by 15, 20 or even more cities. And what is worrying is that somehow the government is reacting in a panic with this data, instead of coming with an effective strategy before the MPs in the National Assembly. It reacts panicfully in such a way that, on the one hand, it enormously increases the country's indebtedness without any reservations, it supports those who are richer than we are and who have better conditions. However, it does not come to the National Assembly with a comprehensive programme that would allow Slovenia to continue to grow and rehabilitate that part of the economy, which is mainly linked to Slovenia's domestic market. After the efficiency of the operation, Slovenia fell for 15 cities. The biggest contributors were the state debt explosion and last year's public-financial hole. Slovenia has worsened its operations in the field of economic activity. Here it fell for 21 cities due to a steep fall in gross domestic product, a fall in foreign trade and a fall in foreign direct investment. And what has the government done in the last year to prevent that from happening? Nothing. Everything she has done has helped to make these indicators significantly worse. It would be better if you didn't do anything. It would be better if I didn't do anything because I'm sure that in such a case this fall wouldn't be as big as it is at this particular moment. What the current government is capable of is just an additional debt that leads to some enchanted spiral from which there is no way out. We do not support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party and we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u133	Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u134	Thanks again for saying that. Since the beginning of the global financial crisis, the Slovenian compensation company has successfully fulfilled its legal obligations under the management of shares in companies where the value of the crisis has fallen significantly. In addition, the Court sold most of the liquid investments over the period 2004-2008. According to the Government's assessment, it is largely a strategic investment, which at the moment, given the situation on the financial markets, is not worth selling for the purposes of providing liquid assets for the settlement of the company's liabilities. In order to provide liquidity for the performance of the tasks, the Court must be obliged to issue bonds of EUR 300 million, equivalent to one and a half years of company obligations. Of that 300 million sum, approximately half will be used to refinance or replace existing more expensive loans and the other half to cover the company’s current liabilities. In the given circumstances, we have no other option than to support the proposed Guarantee Act in the Slovenian Compensation Society. Any opposition to the proposed law, since there are virtually no other solutions, would in practice constitute an opposition to the ongoing enforcement of the company's legal obligations, including denationalisation obligations. So once again, we will uphold the law. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Radovan Žerjav, on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The main reason for the adoption of the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act for the obligations of the Slovenian Indemnity Company is, according to the applicant, to establish the necessary financial resources to pay the legal obligations of the Court. In order to settle the legal and contractual obligations of investment in shares and shares of companies as well as banks and other financial institutions acquired in the business property transformation process, with purchases and on other grounds. Indeed, it is likely that, due to substantially changed financial circumstances, it is not possible to sell them now. However, more and more questions are being raised in the SLS Group in particular due to poor and uncertain market relations, and we expect that the sale of capital investments will not follow the dynamics of the Court's outstanding liabilities and that its deficit will increase. According to a financial impact assessment, the applicant says that the implementation of the law will not give rise to financial obligations for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, as new obligations do not arise for the Republic of Slovenia as a wedding. The direct financial implications for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia could only arise if the Court itself did not repay the loans or repay the bonds in accordance with the contractual arrangements and the obligation to marry would be enforced. We would like to know whether a more detailed analysis has been carried out, whether the Court will be able to pay off the loans it has rented, or whether their payment will be transferred to the final stage of the state budget, in the light of this issue. In view of the long-term stability of public finances, such an analysis would certainly be necessary. We believe that such an easy resort to issuing State guarantees is dangerous and irresponsible. Even if we have in mind the unimaginable obligation undertaken by the Republic of Slovenia to save the euro area. We cannot support the proposed law as stated in the SLS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar is also on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u138	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal of the Republic of Slovenia Guarantee Act on the obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society. In the DeSUS Group, we will vote in favour of the adoption of a law allowing the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society, the Court, in the amount of 300 million to pay the legal obligations of the Court. We are aware of the fact that the Court's payment is important for the servicing of many areas, both for the payment of compensation under the War Compensation Act, under the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, for the completion of denationalisation procedures, for investing in the public telecommunications network. To this end, the Court has invested in shares and shares of companies and banks and other financial institutions acquired in the process of reshaping companies with purchases and on other grounds. Certainly the most important resource for the repayment of the liability of the Court of First Instance is the purchases from the sale of the intended property which was given to the Court in its management. However, we are aware that the consequences of the financial crisis and also reflect on the value of the Court's assets, as the latter have resulted in a drastic decline in the value of the assets and that the Court is essentially unable to sell them now because of these changed financial circumstances or would be completely pointless and irrational. Therefore, the Government proposes to provide funds to the Court of Justice for the rental of loans or for the issue of new bonds of EUR 300 million to be secured by the State guarantee. Only in this way will the optimal conditions for borrowing be achieved, thereby reducing the opportunity costs of borrowing credit. Despite what I have already said in the introduction that our Group supports the proposed law, of course we also have some comments which are mainly going in the direction. Firstly, taking into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The latter drew attention to the inconsistencies in the use of tethers, the harmonisation of concepts and the date of application. We are of the opinion that our legislative and legislative services need to be consistently respected. Secondly, we note that, in our view, it is merely an indication that the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the current operation of the Court in 2010, without the determination of the intended use of financial resources, is not entirely justified. It is about borrowing the country, for the EUR 300 million to be allocated to the operation of this company. Although it would be better for this commitment to be made into some new investment, new investments that would be returned to society in the future. For the third time, we have commented that the insurance of this guarantee is not provided for by law. Otherwise, it is true that the relationship between the parties, namely the Republic of Slovenia and the SOD, is defined in a special contract. It is also true that, in the case of the guarantees provided by the Republic of Slovenia, the risk of a transfer of credit to the country is relatively small, but we believe that it would be advisable for DeSUS Members to agree on a higher level of guarantee insurance and to introduce it into law. It is, therefore, some of the comments that we are drawing attention to in the DeSUS Group. We are convinced that this conditional approval of the law in our parliamentary group would not be linked to adjustments to any of these comments that are to take place in the next process, i.e. with an amendment or in any other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 17th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 13.35 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u140	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote on the proposals for decisions. Continue with the termination of item 2 of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the tax procedure law in the context of the urgent procedure Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. May I have your attention, we are before the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members and Members present. It's 63 votes against no one. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on corporate income tax in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since the amendments were not tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on income in the framework of the urgent procedure. Since no amendments have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. It's 73 votes against no one. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Income Act. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. He voted 75 against no one. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on the guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia to finance the investments of companies. We continue with the second reading, i.e. by deciding on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 20.5.2010. You've got them. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 1 of the SD Group. An explanation of the voice in your own name? What group wants to explain the voice? No, no, no. In your own name, mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u141	Look, I'm going to object to this amendment because it's a completely unnecessary, insignificant and flawed approach. In fact, I see the point in some additional complexity of the text, which we all want to make as simple and operational as possible. So when we talk about granting loans with State guarantees to economic operators, we want this to happen quickly and effectively where the economy needs it for new investments. With this amendment, the coalition SD introduces the word "first-class" into the text. Therefore, only credits to first-class commercial banks may be leased by economic operators. What are the first-class commercial banks? Who's gonna find out? Well, if banks give credit, commercial banks give credit. They are given, namely they cannot be given if they are not registered under the Banking Act, unless they meet all the conditions because they are supervised by the Bank of Slovenia. And one such provision is a completely unnecessary additional obstacle and complicates the process of granting credit to the investment economies. I don't know what led the SD to go in there, but I'm sure this provision will make the implementation of this law more complicated than it will help him. I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u142	Thank you very much. In your own name? Mr. Bogdan Chapich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. The amendment tabled by the parliamentary group is in no way in vain. It will not make it difficult or complicated in any way, but in particular it will give the Government the opportunity to determine in the regulation what these first-class banks are, so that it can also take into account international standards that are in this area so that we will not happen to any banks in the so-called offshore zones that operate. It is about setting out clearly what first-class guarantees are given, supported by a 75% guarantee of the state. It is important that the borrower also takes credit from whom he takes credit because it is a great obligation of the State.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u144	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 26. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! In the second paragraph of Article 2, we are talking about why guarantees should not be issued. And the first indent states that the guarantee must not also be issued for the reprogrammes of existing loans. When we read the reports on the implementation of the guarantee scheme, we were able to read that the economy was asking for more than 90% of the loans for certain investments, including loans for, I don't know, repayable assets and the like. This is what operators need at the time of the credit crunch. The government has decided that it is no longer anti-crisis measures, but will only take measures to get out of the crisis. So, the actions of the so-called exit strategy. Your Honor, what you've decided is irrelevant. What matters is what the economy needs. The economy needs money to finance and reprogram existing investments and new investments. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party we propose to delete this limit and we will also support it, because the economy needs money, not just for new, entirely new investments, which we can probably count on the fingers of one hand throughout Slovenia. The economy also needs money to finance investments that have already been started and that have not been completed. Here, too, the economy needs money that it cannot get under the same conditions as it did when an investment started, in 2007, 2008, and so on. We therefore propose that the application of this law and the measure that we welcome be made possible, including to pay the existing obligations of the beneficiaries to suppliers, banks and other creditors, so we propose deleting this indent, which somehow further focuses this credit. And one more thing. The reason why we are proposing this amendment and why we will support it is also because the law will be operational at all, so that any loans under this scheme will be made. These new investments, I believe, are significantly lower than the demand for credits for existing loans and reprogrammes. Therefore, I think that in terms of the effectiveness of this measure, which, by the way, is good, even though it complicates the whole thing again because it introduces this agent, this unfortunate SID bank, which is not operational and qualified to do so, but whatever. We propose that at least the range of potential beneficiaries should be extended to receive State guarantees for this measure.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Chapič, explanation of vote on behalf of the delegation? On behalf of the SD Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. The Group of Social Democrats will not support this amendment in particular because of this, not because the law that we adopt to finance investments in companies is primarily an investment law, because we want to encourage lending of investments rather than reprogramming existing loans and these things. For reprogramming, we have two guarantee schemes that allow the reprogramming of old debts, which are not, by the way, 90%, but the Secretary of State said about 30% of the guarantee scheme quota. But it doesn't matter. The banks had the opportunity, and the borrowers, to reprogram their bad debts to eventually extend their assets on the basis of each other's laws. This law allows new investments, in particular those that will increase the added value that will be development-oriented and thus have a first-class guarantee and should therefore be slightly cheaper. We estimate that these loans will accelerate investment activity in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SNS Parliamentary Group, Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u149	Thank you. For the fifth time, I will say that it would be normal and logical for this amendment to be adopted and that this law would also give this possibility. And now it's because it's the diametric opposite of the state's guarantee of the Soda. There it expressly allows for repayment of debts, in which case, when it is actually huge on three-quarters of unfinished investments, the country obviously prefers that three-quarters, I'll say, laid-up factories fail as if it helped with that quarter to stop the factory. I don't understand that. And if I were an entrepreneur, if I had my own resources, of course I'd rather invest my own resources in development than pay dearly the money the bank would lend me, even though I have it myself. I really don't know who's going to be from first-class commercial banks after this law, and I also have to say that I have no idea which is first-class or which is second-class and third-class to then get credit from such banks, I don't know why. Probably back to buying their own villas, their own cars, their own yachts, and their own private affairs, because they don't need another. Thank you. We will absolutely support this amendment, and this is the only smart solution that can be said today under this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in his own name, Istok Podkrižnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u151	President, thank you so much for your word. I will repeat this once again that, in fact, with this amendment, I support it, we will support most of the Slovenian economy, the real companies that are mature, which have been operating on the market for decades, and who face problems, are said not to receive timely credits. In particular, it is the fact that uncompleted investments and projected investments actually finance this economy from an ongoing business. And that's what I think is very burdensome for these companies, and that's why they're getting in trouble. And I think that this economy will also pull this Slovenia out of the situation it is in. I think that these new companies, which are being set up in a new way, will take quite some time for them to be full-year-olds and will be able to mate with those companies that have been operating on the market for many years. However, it will show the vote, what you will decide whether or not to do with this amendment, how long have you actually all spent here together in the economy? If you have made a few hours or years in the economy, then you will support this amendment if you do not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u152	Thank you very much. In your own name, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u153	One more dimension, I didn't have time in the name of the Member of Parliament before, and I would like to point out this. Perhaps, honourable Members, no one has overlooked today's press releases, that Slovenia has slipped on the competitiveness scales or on one of the competitiveness scales for 20 cities from 32nd to 52nd place. When you analyze the reasons why it slipped, you will be able to see that the decline in GDP, the fall in exports, not least significantly less direct foreign investment, is among the key reasons for this fall. Inadequately, honourable coalition Members, you have accomplished the task of one of the most important anti-crisis tasks, i.e. promoting economic activity. If your actions that you have voted in this House and the measures that your Government has proposed to this Parliament were effective, you probably would not have fallen to the highest level of international competitiveness. We fell in 20 places. We fell the most. Even countries such as Poland and others have even experienced growth and progress at this time. Give for God's sake a little self-criticism already, and see if you're working for this country and the national economy, or if you're just doing it with your own decisions. And you're going to include this measure, maybe even some kind of traffic light will be on fire there, and there will be no effect on the economy. Those who decide on new investments today are probably five or ten in Slovenia. But those who need a reprogram at the time of the start-up of the investment are huge. And if you want to help the economy, then vote on this amendment, because it will have a much broader range of potentially interested people than what you are proposing. What you're suggesting sounds good, but there won't be any effect.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Maybe it would be best if I applied because I see you still want to explain your voice. I'm asking you to sign up. An explanation of the voice, in his own name, Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you very much. If the amendment were to be drafted in such a way as to state that the amendment is to be deleted, it would then be allowed to reprogram the loans which were intended for investment. However, since it is evident that the deletion of this indent is intended for companies that have failed or who are under-guaranteed by the Law on the guarantee scheme for companies to come through the side door, then this amendment is necessary for certain companies, God knows it, if it is not possible to obtain even a list of the names of these companies, to receive an additional 25% guarantee for the reprogramming of credits that they have leased in the past, because they were encouraged by the wrong economic policy of this country two years ago, three years ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u156	Thank you very much. We vote on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 49. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 1 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments or amendments to this article. Please, mag. Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u157	Thank you very much. It is true, we will announce the amendment, we would only predict it to Article 2, but unfortunately we cannot do so to Article 1. We would be happy to announce it in spirit, as Mrs Pečanova announced, which said under what conditions would support this, because this is exactly what we want to achieve so that the reprogramming of investment credits can also be done through this scheme. I'm sorry the procedure makes this impossible. Since only Article 1 has been opened, it would probably not be formally consistent to propose an amendment to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u158	If I understand you correctly, you will still not table an amendment to Article 1 of the amended law. You do not intend to submit an amendment to Article 1 of the amended law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 72 votes against 2. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Revision Act under the ordinary procedure. I am moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on auditing is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against 26. Who's in? [[45 members.]] Who's against it? [[26 members.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations of the Slovenian Compensation Society, d.d. at EUR 300 million for the leased loans and issued bonds for the financing of the Slovenian Compensation Company, d.d., in 2010 under the regular procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Just a minute. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We will not support this proposal in the Group of Members. Everything is too easy for the Slovenian state and the Slovenian government to impose and burden future generations of taxpayers with coalition in this Parliament. Too easy. If you look at how public debt grew in Slovenia in just one year, in 2009, according to 2008, you will find that we are recorders between all euro area countries and the European Union. We've increased our public debt by 59%. Of 226% of GDP, 36% of GDP was good. The European Union had a public debt growth of about 14% over the period, Greece 16%. A respected coalition, a respected government. If you will also be in debt to Slovenia in the future, the Greek script will follow us in about 3 to 4 years. You have no idea how to seriously control the expenditure in this country and how to deal with these scissors that are increasingly dispersed between income and expenditure in this country. This law adds unnecessary public debt and problems in the public treasury. Why was it not previously verified that the sale of possible investments to service obligations was made? She wasn't. It wasn't tested. The company has shares in Telekom, with certain investments for which demand is not only at home, even on the international market. Why don't you look for resources for commitments in this way, and you're doing it with the constant indebtedness of the country? When you talk about the Greek script and about helping Greece, of course, it is increasingly evident that you are probably aware that soon we will be the ones who need help. With such a rise in deficits and, as a result, public debt, I do not know if you will be waiting for the end of this mandate to reach a public debt close to the Maastricht criterion. Therefore, since the Government had, but not the Government, other parastatal institutions had a different choice before, they did not use it. The nicest and easiest thing to do is knock on the state door and say, give us a guarantee. And of course we're gonna give us that money, and you're gonna put the director on the line. It is possible to be the director of such a parastatal fund if you receive guarantees of EUR 300 million. Now for about 100 more in the future and for about 100 more in the past. That's the kind of director anyone could be.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Mag. A visor. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 48 votes against, 24 against. Who's in? [[48 members.]] Who's against it? [[24 members.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in profits, the urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 20. 5. 2010 We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of SD and DeSUS groups to Article 3, and I would point out that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Articles 19, 23 and 24. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendments will become substantively related and if this amendment is adopted, the amendment under number 2 becomes irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of SDS mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u161	The problem and area of profit sharing, as well as a wide range of areas governing the relationship between employers and employees, must, I underline, be subject to social bargaining: negotiations between employers, workers and the Government. In addition to this particular problem or the issue of profit sharing, the government or the state also raises itself because it becomes a partner in this story with tax advantages. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we cannot agree to a solution where only some groups have the privilege of social bargaining, whether they are employers or employees. The government proposed a law that upgraded the existing solution and was coordinated between the social partners. Some coalitions of the parliamentary group have intervened in this agreement and are implementing a unilateral solution supported by workers and employers oppose it. We could read this through a joint statement of all economic associations. Dearly respected Social Democrats, who are behind these solutions, what can we do with your coalition treaty, your pre-election promises that social dialogue is sacred to you, what can we do about it?Oh, my God! Can we really throw this away?Oh, my God! You have walked your own principles, your own written statements and your promises several times. You've done this a couple of times. How can we trust you people?Oh, my God! How can people believe you in the solutions that you stand up for, that you defend, and so on, and if you follow them, every day. In the coalition treaty and countless of your documents, social dialogue is the first and only thing for you. That's where you walked him. You didn't even coordinate with the employers. The solution, a voluntary solution to the sharing of profits for workers, was coordinated among the social partners. On the SD side, we've heard many times that we've proposed this because we had to cut it because the social partners didn't agree. The social partners have agreed, but they have not agreed on your solution, which is weak and destructive and will probably reduce the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy by a few more cities. There's not much you can do. For 20 cities, between 58, you can't fall from 52nd place because you can fall to 58th place. Thus, even for Bulgaria, Romania, which is the only one among the European countries that is still behind us after the competitiveness that has just been measured and published. Your Honor! This is a solution that we would otherwise support, including mandatory division, if it were coordinated between the social partners. It's not. Disobedience of your own commitments is the worst thing you've ever enjoyed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u162	Thank you very much. We're voting. Excuse me. Please, Breda Roast. Would you like to do it on behalf of the SD Group? Does he want to explain the voice of any other group? [[He doesn't want to.]] Explanation of the vote on behalf of Breda Pecan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The amendment adopted by the Committee allows all capitalists in Slovenia who make part of the profits with their capital, since one part of the profits with this capital is co-created by workers in these companies, the possibility that if they share up to 25% of the profits to capital owners can also voluntarily share it with workers. But everything they're going to share over 25% will have to be shared. We will witness this autumn whether it is really good will for employers, for capital owners to share the fate of the economic situation with workers. For this reason, such a law must be supported, this amendment that we have corrected, because we can prove that our capitalist, Slovenian capitalist, has become a modern capitalist of social capitalism, not capitalism of exploitation of the worker and abuse of the power that capital now has in Slovenia. Many Slovenian capitalists have become capitalists in very strange ways and they are [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u164	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u165	proof that the way in which a person acquires property is also characteristic of how he has a relationship with workers who help to generate profits. [[...]] For this reason, I will always support all those laws and all those changes that give the worker the right role in making profits in companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u166	I can see that the wish is to explain the votes, so I'm asking you to apply. Voice explanation, mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Listen. Of course, I cannot support such an amendment because part of this coalition from the meeting is actually dealing with how to share from the proposal. No one's interested in how to create. In this country, of course, someone should also work on how to create in this country to share something. And all you'd do is share. And it's gonna be less and less to share. First, you're going to stop investments through the balance sheet, then you're probably going to deny yourself some privilege in the end. In fact, this solution, which goes through this amendment and through this amended government law, deals only with how to share, not how to create. Your Honor, this proposal is cynical, cynical to extremes. For the first time, you're going to share something, but there's nothing to share because there's no profit. The winnings have fallen dramatically. And it was said that it would only be for those who had over 25%. It's a balance sheet. The balance sheet profit is quite fast when it's shared. The problem is, it's a net profit. The net profit is usually less divided by the fact that it is already entangled in all living things. Taxes, among other things. Another time. He's cynical about it because if you had your personnel installed in the supervisory and administrative authorities of companies in the state or, I'd say, even in para-state ownership, if you wanted to share profits, you'd be sharing it already. And these same yuppies and yuppie groups, and your rich people in these societies, they'd rather take your profits to the state budget, not to the employees. That is why this proposal is cynical. If we wanted to share the profits with people, we'd have shared it a long time ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u169	I will support this amendment because I believe that the compulsory division of profits in its essence speaks of creation and not division. It is the fact that in this country, however, at some essential points, we must establish a new understanding of justice and the fact that we all create benefits and values in this country together. But not just some dead capital that's jobless, no ideas, no knowledge, no creativity. It stays exactly what's at its source. A man gives him added value. It is therefore right that the person who creates added value is also benefiting from this added value. And in this respect, we are actually answering the question of what economy we want in this country. And we don't want economies based on neoliberal economic doctrines, but we want a different economy, we want an economy that will encourage people to create and that will also promise them a share in profit in return for this creation. That's why I'm going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote Dejan Levanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u171	Thank you so much for saying that. Today, I have heard from some that it is disastrous to share profits with workers. I think or I am sure that this should not be disastrous and that we need to start thinking differently in today’s society. Who makes the profit if not the workers? But who creates what is development, if not workers? And it is right that if profits are already distributed over 25% to be distributed among the workers, so I will support this amendment, i.e. mandatory profit sharing. And to say what we have heard today is cynical, that this is proposed today because there is no profit. But listen, there's been a profit in the past, and it hasn't been shared among the workers. There is a profit today, too, and it is not shared among the workers. And there will be profit in the future, and on your proposal, I would not share among the workers. I think it is necessary to end this, if only it is possible for profit to be divided among workers who have so much to do with it. The big words fell in the National Assembly as to how those who are not guilty of the crisis are paying for the crisis, but when one concrete step has to be taken, one concrete action, so to write down a mandatory profit sharing, then we sit back and oppose it. I think we need to look the truth in the eye and say, if we can use these measures to help, let's do this. And compulsory profit-sharing can be afforded by many companies if someone really thinks for the benefit of workers and workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u172	I'm asking you to sign up for an explanation of vote. The word is Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u173	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will support this amendment. I will support him because I think the crisis is a time when you can put some things in perspective. And we are always talking and hearing that this is the time when Slovenia will be placed in the place of the winners. Those winners who will be even stronger after this crisis. True, this time is coming slowly, although I am disappointed, I would like it to be quicker. But this is an opportunity when we can change this matter. And this is an opportunity when we can prepare for a time when there will be profits again in this country. I wish this would happen as soon as possible. And today I will support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote by Marian Križman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u175	Thank you very much. It is always necessary to repeat the same truth when we talk about successful directors and presidents of administrations, when you give us advice on what kind of people we should put in such places, I will tell you what you put in your previous mandate on Primorsko. If we set up people who really know how to drive companies and rule, we'd have something to share. So you put in Luka Koper, in Intereuropo, I will not talk about Istrabenz, but it is very close, people who have wasted everything they could spend. To the unknown where millions went, millions of euros. And the conclusion that the profits are gone is correct. But the fact that there is no profit, you have to attribute, write on your forehead and look in the mirror to remember that this was your mandate, that these were your people. And when you talk about these matters, we will always remind you of what you have done in Slovenia and why we do not have profits there today, why Intereuropa has to fight such a huge loss and why it will actually have to take very serious measures, in my opinion, even in forgiveness, I hope not, but it does. Dear gentlemen, this is the answer to what you are constantly turning and honking, advising us on what kind of personnel should be put up to be able to pull Slovenia out of the economic crisis. This is an answer that you could have given yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u176	Thank you very much. We are voting on the first amendment of SD and DeSUS to Article 3. There are 70 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 24. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The amendment to the same Article under point 2 thus became irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 19. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, for 45, for 23. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD and DeSUS to Article 23. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, for 41, for 22. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD and DeSUS to Article 24. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 41 to 24. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD and DeSUS to Article 27. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, for 42, for 24. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly adopted the amendments to Articles 3, 19, 23, 24 and 27. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? I guess not. The amendments have not been tabled or announced. We're moving to third reading. No amendments were tabled in the draft law for the third reading. With regard to coordination, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Secretary of State Darja Radic has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u177	Thank you very much, President. Well-known honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At today's meeting, the government adopted a harmonisation amendment to the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in profit. The harmonisation amendment is necessary because of the non-compliance resulting from the adoption of the amendment to Article 3 of the bill. Since that amendment legitimizes the compulsory participation of workers in profits and thus derogates from the concept of the bill, this non-compliance with the harmonisation amendment should be corrected. As a result, it is possible to enforce tax reliefs also in the case of compulsory participation of workers in profits and to contribute to the enforcement of the law, we hope, also in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Since the proposal of the law, due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent working body, is inconsistent, as you have heard, the Government is preparing a harmonisation amendment to the 25th article you are currently receiving on the bench. The representative of the government has already received the floor. Can we continue or wait? Do Members and Members want the word? I'm just gonna apply for a debate. Everyone has five minutes. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The government is solving this through this amendment, which is a solution to that, and has apparently fallen under the pressure of the leader of the largest parliamentary group that is instigated by these solutions. In implementing this provision and these solutions, I think there will be many problems in practice. And even after my assessment, the law will not achieve its purpose for one simple reason, because employers with whom these solutions have not been harmonized will serve a number of circuits, many ways to avoid it. The problem is that by creating an enterprise and owner and capital of an unfriendly regulation, we will cause the behavior that we had at the time of prohibition when whiskey was used with coffee, but here we will find and renovate new solutions to how to kill and "pump" profits from societies. We know a lot of cases. Daughter companies will be set up to send invoices to queens at altitudes, thereby reducing profits or increasing expenditure, resulting in less profits, less tax and no sharing, even though they could share something. The problem with implementation is also that this matter is totally inconsistent with the Government itself. I wonder if the government has done any analysis of the financial implications of this solution. I'm sure he doesn't have one. One case I'll tell you which one you will, I hope you all understand. We have Holding Slovenian Power Plants. Holding Slovenian power plants employs several thousand people also in manufacturing companies, Dravske power plants, Termoelectrica Šostanj, Premogovnik Velenje, Soške power plants and so on. This holding company sets redemption prices, it buys from its subsidiaries according to the transfer principle, provides just as much for that subsidiary to have no loss and to cover all its investments. So profit doesn't stay with the subsidiaries. Everything shows up at the holding company and the holding company has a profit in the end. And if the state wants to collect profits from this holding company, which is 100% state-owned, it will divide it among those 100 "mandelians" who are in holding, not in manufacturing companies, in those who are buying electricity, because holding does nothing but markets electricity, and certain joint services and so on. So the result will be that you will create such injustices between employees, between those in production and those who will end up sharing profits because the state will decide to do so because the state will withdraw the dividend from the state firm. That's what you did with that law. And there's something else about this kind of holding company. Gen Energy is one such holding company and some others. And respectable, do you think it is fair for you to have two companies - a bank, for example, which typically creates profits, an insurance company that already with premiums makes sure that it is a profit, even a bank will "hand you" interest by getting profits, and besides a manufacturing company that deals with, I don't know, textiles or metal-processing or any other processing business that employs a lot of people and hard to get through time. The ones in the bank, the insurance companies, they're gonna make a nice profit, the ones in the bank, they're not gonna. Is that fair?Oh, my God! It's not fair. Such solutions under the pressure of populism and some imaginary, seeming likeness to your employees. And you will create such injustices! And once again, how will you tell the miners in Velenje Coal, respected Mr Kontic, that they will be able to share their profits only gentlemen on Holding in Ljubljana, and he will not?Oh, my God! And the one at the Chestnut thermal power plant will also be wiped out under his nose for profit. Yes, and those at Drava Power Plants, too. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u180	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u181	which is actually created by the only one in the Holding Group. [[...]] If I understand correctly, you have created this law for the consecrated, who are privileged to share it, for those who usually create it, and for those who will not, and at least not, share it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I find that there is no desire for a debate, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 26. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 20. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes the agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region, within the framework of the reduced procedure. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union, a reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. I inform you that the law will be adopted if at least two thirds of the Members present vote in accordance with paragraph 3A of Article 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 76 votes against none. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 43 votes against 27. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act, under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cooperatives Act is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 27. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Conversion of the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance, the transfer of the rights and powers of the DSU to the Slovenian Compensation Society and the Investment Policy of the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Slovenian Compensation Society. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: the proposal for a law on the conversion of the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance, the transfer of the rights and powers of the DSU to the Slovenian Indemnity Society and the investment policy of the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Slovenian Indemnity Society is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? On behalf of the SDS Group Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u183	Thank you very much. We oppose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We are missing a comprehensive government approach, a strategic direction that would clearly emerge, how and in what way will future asset management, which is owned by all citizens and citizens, and which is somehow obtained by each government only in effective and responsible governance and nothing more. The attempts we see in this mandate and the legislation, as adopted, speak of this as not a primary objective. The primary objective of reshaping institutions in the field of management and management of state assets and state investments, in particular from the relaxation of those mechanisms that prevent what happened earlier in the third phase of privatisation from happening, is to say that dedicated elites waiting for this opportunity would be able to obtain the assets that are now common to all. Poor experience from the 1992 period continues to show that relaxed mechanisms do not allow transparent and effective privatisation and management. And these experiences should lead us to this, and above all the ruling coalition, that legislation will never happen again in such a way that it allows for such procedures. This law is also contrary to what you have entered into in the coalition treaty, and therefore, above all, the ruling Members should be against this law. With regard to when you wrote in the coalition contract that you would reshape it by managing the property in order to provide funds for the pension fund in a special way in order to ensure the professionality and autonomy of the management of the state property. The property of this new organisation, you have written down, and you will transfer from the country to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance as a special capital fund, which will be separated from the current balance sheet of the STIZ and so on. And you, by law on the State Investment Management Agency, have abolished this fund. You've deleted section 246 of the law. Thus, this law is not suitable for further consideration after this substantive salary and is also inappropriate because it does not meet the basic formal conditions for being treated. The explanation of the law does not compare with other legal systems; we do not find an assessment of the financial consequences that this law will have; therefore, it should be rejected already in the appropriateness assessment procedure, whether it is appropriate for the National Assembly to discuss it or not. We do not support such a law and its follow-up procedure in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, as I have already said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Franz Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I will not support this decision for a simple reason and with other arguments such as predecessors. It's about treating Kad's assets as state property, which it's not. This is the property of current and already deceased pensioners acquired under the Property Change Act. And this property is not intended for anything other than providing a deficit in the pension register. However, the Government's explanation was that, when we voted again on the Agency's Law, the result of the Agency's operation would be used within which Kad's assets would also be used for three cashiers: Kad's obligations, the Court's obligations and the State's budget obligations. This means that the basic purpose that should be provided within the framework of the real ownership of this property is broken. I can't support this marriage. The problem is somewhere else. That the management of this property so far has been problematic, nicely said, and very poor in some moves. Secondly, that part of this property has been unduly and unjustifiably poured into the second pillar of pension voluntary insurance, where losses have been caused by poor management and which is actually a fraud that benefits only managers and supervisors who are not responsible for this management. These are the reasons why I won't back things up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u187	Thank you very much. It is no coincidence that today we have a law on the participation of workers in profits as well as this law. The first marriage is an empty law, just to arouse a fine impression, and there will be no expectations for workers raised by the coalition. This marriage, which is now before us, is full. It carries in it a great deal of wealth, and on this property will fall the elites. And interestingly enough, there is no record of any control in this law, and this law does not have any recorded criminal provisions. This is a law that entails a huge reallocation of assets, state property from institution to institution, the creation of new agencies, the creation of an insurance company and no one, anywhere alone, single liability provisions, criminal provisions, reporting, supervision. Interesting! How the coalition designed to regulate and dispose of state property. And with this property that you will now redistribute on the basis of this law, it will only be a continuation of what you have set yourself. Far from the social state, far from anything, but only to comfort the elite appetites created and promoted by this coalition budget. Against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u189	Thank you very much. I'll support the marriage. In particular because it allows for the implementation of three principles. The first principle is efficiency of management, the second principle is clear governance rules and the third principle is stability, stability of pension fund financing. This law clearly provides for the extent to which, at the annual level, the pension fund is owned and, of course, still permits and provides for the possibility, if not sufficient, to be financed from the State budget. Thus there is no fear nor can there be to question the pension fund in any way. Reverse. For the sake of clarity and stability of annual funding, we also allow for greater predictability in the pension fund. If the Capital Investment Management Act was the establishment of a structure for the efficient management of our assets by setting up an agency, this law, the Change Act, gives this structure content. One is linked to the other and together they represent a whole that clearly sets out how we manage our common assets on new foundations. And I am not surprised that those who have fallen prey to the lack of transparency of the old foundations today oppose this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u190	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 28. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated, in second reading, to the Committee on Finance, monetary policy as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 12th item of the agenda - third reading of the draft Law on School Diet in the framework of the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Tuesday 18th. 5. 2010 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than 10 articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the proposer, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled that you received on the bench. I am putting to the debate the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 15. Please, does anyone want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Each of the discussers has five minutes. The word is Alice Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. So the amendment, which we have tabled again in our parliamentary group, retains 100% subsidy for all 85,000 students and students, because we do not understand why it is necessary to save students, why to point to those who come from poorer families. In the previous term, we have tried to lead a positive family policy, give to young people and give to families, and the results are positive. This government seems to be just taking it away from them. This is how the law is coming into Parliament, which will end state scholarships for underage students, the money in the scholarship fund remains, even though many of those who have applied for scholarships have not received it. [[The riots in the parliamentary benches.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u192	May I have your attention in the hall, please? On both sides of the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u193	We estimate that the law is being amended only because it was adopted in the previous mandate, even though it was adopted unanimously by the votes of all Members present and Members of both the coalition and the opposition. And in the debate there was a lot of talk about social justice, generally known, and we also talk about it many times in the National Assembly, that it is unfair, how often it is unfair, and in how many cases those who receive social assistance and various transfers are those who are not actually socially at risk. Therefore, the Ministry of Labour has proposed that the law wait for new social legislation to be put in place to regulate this social project, to regulate records showing who is really at risk and who is not. I am convinced that our amendment was good and that I will therefore support it, that the solution adopted in the previous mandate was good, the subsidy was bound to the status, to all students equally, regardless of their status, not to their social status, as it is regulated in the field of student nutrition for all students equally, regardless of their social situation. And if our government and the rest of the coalition, which implemented such a positive policy, would still be the same for primary schoolchildren, i.e. for all schoolchildren alike, regardless of their social status. In the school year 2008/2009 [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u194	May I have your attention in the hall, please? It is a debate on the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u195	All students and students, 85,000 of them, had their first hot meal, fully co-financed by the state. [[...]] The measure was well received, the interest in a meal is great, a third of the students rated the quality of a meal with a highest rating of 5, that is very good, and two thirds with a score of 4, and quite good. We do not agree to divide students into very poor, poor and rich categories, and that they will have to prove this through forms, applications, complaints, and then someone will process all these 85,000 applications, respond to complaints, send decisions on choice, on choice, and at the end of each month prepare and distribute at least 50,000 items for 8 and 16 euros. The former government has received awards and recognitions from various European institutions for leading anti-Burocratic policies and reducing and abolishing unnecessary administration. This government reintroduces it and forgets that administrators will cost much more than a few meals that are cancelled or 100% co-financing. That this would lose a lot of time and energy that could be directed at something else - not to talk about it at all. We propose that you support the amendment that we tabled because it preserves what we gave students in the previous term, 100% subsidy for all 85,000 Slovenian students and students, and that you stop pointing your finger at students coming from poorer families. So far, we can say that it wasn't in high school, we're now transferring it to high school. We propose reconsideration and propose that you support our amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u197	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The Group of Social Democrats will not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party by Article 15. We support the proposal of the School Food Act in the Social Democrats Group, but we support it because, after the adoption of this law, each of 250,000 pupils and students will receive at least two thirds of the subsidy on the price of a meal. Among them will be 90,000 who will receive a meal for free, I repeat, 90,000 students and students who will receive the meal for free. We do not take anything from anyone, as the students themselves will find when they sit in the school bench on September 1st, but we try to help those who cannot with more cost-effective and social justice. In all the debates so far, the Social Democrats supported attempts to tackle the issue in a comprehensive manner, not only following the motive for the pre-election appeal of the authorities by universal distribution of rights to all. If the funds are, with such or other candy, of course, there is nothing wrong and it is able to support them. But now there are no funds. And from one empty bag to another, you can't take anything anymore. Therefore, at a time of financial uncertainty, the principle of the social state requires more than ever measures where those who have and can have solidarity with those who do not have and cannot. And let's stop being demagogic when we talk about the payers of these lunches, talking about parents, not about students and students. It is also worth noting that the proposal also has an educational message to guide and commit students to responsible food treatment. Estimates of up to 13% of food being partially or completely discarded oblige us to act in a cost-effective manner. The proposal before us preserves and expands the range of beneficiaries of the subsidised diet. Only the parents of those who can contribute a small share to the children of those who cannot and thus enable subsidised nutrition in primary school. And that's the way it is in these circumstances. As it is said, Members and Members of the Social Democrats of this amendment will not be supported, because I think that the proposal for a law, as drafted by the Ministry of Education, is better than the previous proposal for a bill on diabolical nutrition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Since there's still a desire to discuss it, please apply. Each of the debaters and debaters has five minutes. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u199	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will not support the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, in the debate, of course, there is a need to react to some recurring statement that does not stand the test of sober judgment. It was said that administration was increasing. Well, since I have in my hands the Court of Auditors report, which carried out the audit at five secondary schools and the Ministry, it is necessary to say that as many as 17% of schools did not make any notes and notes on the number of meals taken. This is said to be something in control of the distribution of food that is severely squeezing. And the Ministry of Education has found that the application monitoring programme would require 80,000 euros of input for the introduction of lunch. This is significantly less than about 250,000 euros a day for what is needed for the food subsidy we are talking about. No extra staff. The second fictional statement is that a meal with a partial subsidy, universally, will result in a social differentiation of two-thirds. He won't make her a meal because he'll be the same for everything. And the application will be for everyone, whether they will receive a two-thirds universal subsidy or a full subsidy, which was also discussed by counterpart Samo Bevk and will cover 90,000 of the 260,000 beneficiaries. The application will be for everyone. The application is also linked to the responsibility of those who apply for a meal to sign off on their entitlement to a meal, otherwise they have to pay the costs of a meal. So it's about the training moment that we talked about; that for what you get, as far as that is, you're answering, and you're acting responsibly. About 7% of the increased biological waste was found in schools during the first year of distribution. This shows that more than €160,000 was material, as the Court of Auditors found, because it is also a higher percentage of discarded and unused meals. It may also be possible to discuss the extent to which a desire or goal for a healthy diet has been realized. At three of the five schools examined by the Court of Auditors, it was found that it was not possible to talk about the provision of a healthy meal - that either the contents were such that they did not correspond to it, or that the method of preparing the meals was such that it was not appropriate. The second part of this is the place in which a meal can be eaten and the time in which it can be eaten. Neither by one parameter nor by another can we find out that the measure has been properly planned and that all the options have been provided. Whether the presence of students or students at school has been extended because they were unable to provide sufficient fast distribution of meals to all students at the same time, or whether it was in inappropriate areas. The Court of Auditors has ordered the Ministry of Education to review the investments needed to enable students and students to enjoy meals in the relevant premises. This was not done when the law was introduced and how much financial obligations and investments were still needed, and the Ministry of Finance did not know when it was introduced. Worst of [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] But it is all that they deceive, those who advocate such an amendment, by putting an end to a free meal. [[...]] The subsidy is granted, only the height changes and concerns young people [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u201	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, we are certainly many in this mandate, or many expected that changes will happen for the better. What this government has proposed in the field of student or school diet is certainly not a step for the better in the diaphragm segment. You have replaced a very simple model with a very inefficient and bureaucratic consumer system of identification, calls, calls, controls, controls, recovery and so on. I would like to remind you that for each item at which the amount of EUR 8 will be added to the EUR 1.8 bank commission. That's what it costs to pay for it. This certainly means 20% promotion every month, and this certainly contributes to an additional 100,000 positions, mainly to the rehabilitation of the banking system, not to division and social justice and so on. It would certainly make sense for the Ministry of Education to carry out its monitoring, control and action on the basis of the law. If the premises are not provided, the premises may be improved and additional spaces provided that individual schools, individual directors, fail to carry out the appropriate student diet, they may act on the basis of the powers they have! You didn't do any of this. None of that. One of the colleagues here talked about 13% of food being discarded in high school. I'd like to know if you have a 107% consumption at home, 107% food use. You'd probably expect Social Democrats now that you've changed this subsidy, you'll have 107% of the benefits. So far - I don't know, probably such an efficient use that 100% use of everything you get on the table, even in the cafeteria of this National Assembly, don't spend. However, it is also paid here, from the funds that are intended for this purpose. And actually this model, when looking for some systems and some explanations and introducing some checks, some forms, etc., it's typical of socialist systems. Typical. There everything was on the forms, on the applications, on the records, on the checks in, etc. Why don't we do and leave the system as it was set up when there were actually no bureaucratic elements - in this part? However, better control, better control, sanctions, etc. could be introduced if anything was wrong. And I'm just wondering why, let's say, there's now a difference between student work and student work. Why you have not prepared a proposal for student diet, but students have a much more flexible life, a much more flexible schedule than any student, than any student. Students are more or less adapting their system themselves, their way, they go to lectures, they don't go to lectures, etc., they can do a little work in the middle or similar things, students can't do that. The student has a schedule from - to and from front and back to back for compulsory items and for transport. And I don't understand that you have such a strong desire to actually destroy all the things that have been done in the previous term and that have proved to be good. Surely, with additional bureaucratic obstacles, with additional co-financing you will not improve this system. It's not going to be more effective, it's not going to be a better use, it's not going to be any better. Only one pile of administration, one pile of papers, one stack of bills, recoverys and finally for each ticket of an additional 1.8 euros to pay the commission that will have to be paid on the bank. We'd rather spend that on a student diet. And whatever additional administrative needs you will need to implement this system would be earmarked for food, and many other unnecessary costs could be waived. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u203	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Perhaps it is good that we have some discussions on this subject, because it is imperative to reject some of the things that have been said and, above all, what is gained by the new School Food Act. The four concrete arguments that the previous law was not good are clear. He is the first to talk about it, and today you claim that the students were provided a warm meal. That's not true. The school’s leaders acknowledged that most of the students still served fast food: hot dogs, hamburgers, pizzas. It's not a hot meal. If any of the fast food was made, it was a warm drink - it was not a warm meal. Thus, the first purpose of this law was not to provide the students with a warm meal. And here the former or existing law has misdirected and failed to achieve this goal. And this is a matter that changes in this law, replacing a warm meal with a healthy meal, because it is much clearer defined and also gives clear guidance to school leaders about what to do with a healthy meal. Another argument that speaks against how this thing has been handled so far is how much money we have thrown away or how much food we have dumped in the trash, so to speak. And to be more precise, daily discarded meals were for EUR 5,000 834. So, on the day we threw 5,834 Euros away. The Court of Auditors has estimated that in just one year we have rejected 160,000 euros in rations. Next, when we talked about 13% of students who don't eat food or partly or even completely reject it, 13% is 3.2 million euros, respected colleagues and colleagues, if this is normal, as one of the representatives of the Slovenian Democratic Party said before, because it is impossible to make use of everything, then I really don't know that this is some cost we have to take into account. Do we have to take 3.2 million euros into account? No! No! It must be acknowledged that the existing proposal is poor and needs to be amended. Third argument. Rumor has it it's a simple model. A simple model introduced into primary school in the previous term. That's not true. Only 19% of secondary schools were able to provide a meal in their own kitchen, 17% received a meal from another institution, 56% received a warm meal from outside providers, and the other 7% combined all three ways. Big trouble! So there was no simple model. Great problems and students did not have equal access to a warm meal. And the fourth argument is why marriage isn't good. Administration and democracy and so on, as is evident in this law. But there were problems in the previous marriage. There have been problems and the system isn't good. He's just not good and we'll make a point about it. The Secretary of State explained that 80,000 euros will be required to establish the register. In addition, from now on, each school will easily identify what is happening to students by means of a children’s allowance scale. Whilst this work has been carried out so far by school advisory services, accountants, especially commissions had to be set up and the rules should be adopted, a decision was taken on this basis. If it's not a bureaucratic obstacle, then I really don't know what it is. If it's not an administration anymore, then I really don't know what it is. And do not claim and deceive that there will be more administrations in the existing law. All that is wanted in the existing law and it is now clear that the grant between pupils and primary schoolchildren is to be distributed fairly, with a solidarity component. And that's important. Everyone's gonna have a two-thirds meal subsidized. All of them. Now it's just important whether we're going to divide this between primary school students or whether we're going to leave only students to have a fully subsidized meal, and we've seen how much money we've been throwing away, or whether we're going to share it to make it fairer. And specifically, don't say we're canceling a 100% meal. That's not true. 40% of primary school students will have free meals, 35% of students will have free meals. This is not a rejected subsidy. All the rest will have two-thirds, and the most expensive meal for those who are wealthy will be €16 per month, as there is some responsibility for nutrition. And don't talk about pointing out those who have less in society! These differences are already clear. These differences are clear. We just don't cover our eyes - I don't know. We're sealing our eyes before that. It is necessary to recognize these differences and to enable those who do not have easier access to food. And that's exactly what this law does: a just and solidarity component. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. So, why is it a problem for us to change this law? I said earlier that it had been adopted unanimously in the previous term by the votes of all Members and Members. We have a law on student diet, where we regulate student diet, we have a law on the subsidisation of student diet, where we regulate student diet, and we have a basic school diet, regulated by the primary school law and its funding in the law on education and education financing. You put together again, or the government gives back together some population that wouldn't go together according to the logic of things. The primary school is compulsory in Slovenia. Children are in their home, most of whom are young, and remain in school during the afternoon. Their schedule is specific, the needs of children between 6 and 14 years of age are significantly different from those of adolescents. Secondary education is not compulsory. Students come from different places and many times, even spend many hours on the road and then significantly more hours at school, such as the elementary school you give together. The whole process takes a lot longer. In addition, if we touch the student diet, it has a different schedule, which can be adapted differently. Why are we reuniting things and specific populations for which we have to handle things differently? As it is said, primary school is compulsory, but there are some specifics. High school isn't. And in high school, many more things have to be paid by parents. In addition, you abolish a scholarship for underage students who may have also spent this scholarship on lunch and bus transport, which is not paid by children in primary school, but by the local community, the congregation or their parents, not by children. Talk about how much we're gonna save. You will save six million euros, and you have no problem paying enormous rents, you have no problem paying and buying computers and cars, paying interest on credit and so on. About discarded food. Look, 5% of food is being discarded in primary schools today. Does anyone make a difference? No one! Because it's the same at home. If there's anything left on the plate, then your puppy gets it. But this is junk food - right? Some of you said it was a problem to control things. According to the law we passed in the previous mandate, the Ministry must carry out its supervision! And he's doing it very badly if everything you're talking about is happening. What are the principals to say that he has a warm meal in his marriage and does not do so? It's the Ministry that's in control. If a warm meal is too small for you, change that article and write down what a warm meal is, what it must all contain, what it all means. Obviously, every principal needs to know exactly what he has to do. Some schools have organised kitchens and dining rooms in their premises, while others benefit external operators. Why is that a problem? So many people have jobs, bring food and distribute it at school. Why is that a problem? Also, these students have a hot meal, and he probably doesn't care if two chefs in their kitchen made it or someone brought it in, and then those who work there split it up. That's not bad at all. Why would that be bad? In some environments, the matter has been well organised and it is also right, this is a normal promotion of the economy. This is normal for all other countries, except for us, this is obviously a problem, so that some inn can slightly expand its capacity and take care of the students. You mentioned trouble. We can say that there are problems, certainly, after one and a half years of marriage are usually problems. It's nothing new, so we're changing the laws. Look at what's wrong and change and fix it. And don't say there won't be an additional administration, access to child supplement records, we don't have them right now, that's what the Ministry of Labour told you. Thus, there will be quite a few problems in this area that you are introducing and not saying that there will be no additional administration. I'm sure it will. One year from now, however, we will be discussing how much new employment has to take place and how much more are we going to have to deal with all these papers that you will have to fill in and process after a new one.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u206	Thank you very much. We were warned that Mrs Alenka Jeraj had received the floor twice. It's not her fault, it's the presidency's fault. I very much ask those of you who have already discussed this amendment not to report again, because you will not get a word. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u207	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. My debate will be brief. Partly because I have a full nose, not because there would be too much confusion in Parliament, because someone would not close the windows, but for other reasons. In part because much has been said in previous discussions. I will vote against such an amendment because I think it is right that we separate our contributions from the richer and poorer, not from the children, but from the parents of these children. We just don't separate in kids. Any child who wants to eat will be able to do so in Slovenian primary and secondary schools, and this healthy meal. I will reject this amendment in particular in order to ensure that at least one of those 100 "mandelians" from the HSE holding company who have a child in primary or secondary school and will receive this share of profits, that at least one of them will pay 16 euros more than those hundreds of employees in the Heat Power Plants and the other power plants that will not receive anything from that division and will be one of the few satisfactions that Slovenia is still a social state in which the richer contribute more. It is true that only €16, which is why they get the profits from those divisions that we discussed earlier, but at least something will. So that's why.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. It is right that the state helps those who bear more burdens, such as paying for kindergarten, as well as for lunch. It is right that those who pay the most are having a free lunch in high school, and it is right that those who can pay 8 euros a month. That's why I won't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u211	Thank you very much. I will not support the amendment. A lot of things have been said before me, but I must say that, as far as I am concerned, yesterday's findings by the Court of Auditors, which was the Slovenian public immediately after the news of student and student riots, have also informed me that in the course of the student lunches last year, some 160,000 Euro lunches were thrown away in the trash. It's sad information, it's information that talks about a lot of things, about us as parents and about students and students who do things like that. And I think it is right that the Ministry has taken on and realized this problem, which is by no means just a financial and social problem, but also a problem related to our or the diocese's morality. I have to say, I go around high school a lot and it's sad to see how much food there is in garbage cans around high school. These are things that we have to worry about - not because it lies in a bucket, but because it says a lot about the young generation, which we also had the opportunity to observe here yesterday before the National Assembly, especially the flower of Slovenian diaspora with full hands of beer cans and so on. I'm not saying it's a general pattern, but it's a pattern that we have to worry about, because these kids, these students and students, who were mostly in front of parliament yesterday, throwing gambling and many other things, were looking at us. And in that sense, I think it's the right solution. I think it's right that students and students also know, those who come from a wealthier environment, that it's not something that just belongs to them, that they have to get, but it's right that those who, along with their parents, can do it, partially cover it. And then maybe the garbage cans in high school will be less full, less full of food and less bad attitude toward food. And in that sense, I think the matter is well thought out. Last but not least, money is not going to go that way - if I say so - saved, for other purposes, but it goes to lunches for primary schoolchildren. Again for those who are socially threatened to a greater extent. And in this sense, it seems to me that, unfortunately, we are such people that what we get is just like that and just like that for free is worth nothing. And that's the message that I understand when I go around high school, where there's food in the buckets. And last but not least: I don't think times are the kind of thing that you can do with things like that. I think that the solution is good, it has been studied for a long time, it has been considered how to find such a solution to be as fair as possible and I think and congratulations to the proponents, because I think they have found a good and relatively fair solution, but perhaps a solution that will in some way answer to the Court of Auditors, which yesterday alerted all of us to the enormous number of how and what happens to dispersion in the diocese's diet. In this sense, I think that the amendment must be rejected and the solutions we have in terms of amending the law are completely correct.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u213	Everything needs to be handled responsibly and economically. In the case of food, we could draw a parallel thought and consider, for example, a family where the father decides to give each of the children an extra meal each day, so that they will certainly be satisfied. One year later, he finds out that one part of his kids throws that lunch away. He calls them back to himself and says to them, "I will still give you, but I want you to treat this meal more responsibly. That is why I expect those who will make a decision for it to contribute with one piece of what you can earn." And that's a call to responsibility. We are social democrats for the social state, but we are in favour of a social state where everyone is responsible for keeping this level of social security, but not for rejecting it socially, by symbolizing it, and that is free food sharing, throwing it into the trash. What is the relationship of some of those to whom food is intended for free, what their relationship to food is, we could see yesterday because there was almost more of it at the head of the National Assembly, as much as those they probably used at that time. They had a drink, mostly. That's how I support the law as it is written, and certainly not the amendment, where it deletes that responsibility again and in candy style, even when the financial basis for this candy is gone, tries to erase the sense of responsibility, gives food to everyone - whether they need it or not. He gives food to everyone - whether he uses it or throws it away. And he gives free food to everyone - whether he can pay for it or not. Novela is much more just. In any case, two thirds of the food is still co-financed and the rest of the food is expected to be responsible. And the pay of those who can afford it, while still having a strong social sense, is co-financed by those who cannot afford it. At the same time, this novel is broader in mind and not only limited to one sector, i.e. to secondary school, but also extended to primary school. I would have expected those who had thought from the beginning of this question to start from the beginning and to go to elementary school, but they did not, perhaps because the main concern was not to do something that was systematic and meaningful, but to do something that would lead to a thousand votes in the elections. That this coalition is thinking about the future of the country and not the future of the elections, we have already proved. And that this coalition trusts the people of our country that it will not fall on cheap or free candy, but that it will appreciate the responsibility and the ability to plan the management of the country for a long time, we have already proved and with this law we will go on this exact path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u214	The lady also asked for a discussion Brada Roast. Anybody else want some? More? Then I'll give you time to report. Mr Borut Sayovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. In those days, demagogies were certainly great, but there was a lack of sober, normal, and lifelike thinking. The government has drawn up a good law that is certainly fair in the light of these times of crisis. If we had previously taken a pre-election decision that gave free lunch to future full-year voters before the elections, and nothing to others, then today there is no valid argument. The burden of the cost of lunch is fairly divided among all, including those in primary schools who need this quality service, just as high school students, and it is right in every society that parents who earn more contribute to the meal. Two of the basic principles of righteousness and honesty: in crisis and in trouble, who has more to contribute more to the story. And that's why every demagogy and everything in this place is superfluous. I have said many times that, of course, when parents make decisions or decide on the needs of children, we do not usually save at lunchtime. However, I am concerned about the differences between children in primary and secondary school, because some wear shoes for 20 euros and others for 200, and no one "does" worry, many of those from wealthy families for whom you demand free lunch will arrive tomorrow morning to study, with a cell phone which several times exceeds the cost they will spend on eating throughout the year. And then there's the fact. More than once, we have all said that for those who do not have or are doing worse, the state provides a free meal, in a way that collects and creates records, that it does not give anyone a public mirror, or that it causes him any problems and mental pain. I think we have a good marriage ahead of us, our job is just to confirm it, and we reject the political amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u216	Thank you very much. The word, Mr. Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u217	Thank you, Mr. President. Still, I've heard you before. Thank you. Today, I don't know if we've even talked about whatever the outcome of this marriage is, it would be wise to point out how these meals are shared, how it is supervised, how it is not to be so inappropriate, that I do not say any more about the food that we have heard about at this time - that there is a lot of food being discarded. Above all, I would appeal to all those responsible for this to devote great responsibility and great attention to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I would like to say that with such a large change in the way school nutrition is subsidized, by very logically combining the approach to school nutrition both in primary schools and in secondary schools, because the curriculum is very similar because the schedule is very similar because the students in school are fixed in both primary and secondary schools, therefore this group of children from 6 to 19 years is not comparable to students because students are substantially different from mobile students and have a different distribution of their lectures and their study obligations than high school students and elementary school students. That's the first one. Second. To banalise these changes in a way that constantly and excessively underlines the cost of administration, we have therefore received an answer already on the committee itself, that it will cost, all the records and all the determination of eligibility to 100% subsidisation of a meal, say and write EUR 80,000. That the data that will be available are significantly more easily accessible than have been available so far for other social transfers, because they will cover easily on the basis of the relevant children's document, who is entitled to 100% of the subsidy and who is not. To talk about the state taking something at the expense of high school students is, of course, a fat lie, I can't say otherwise, because the state merely redistributes from those who have enough to those who have too little. Thus, 2/3 of a meal will be subsidized both in primary and secondary school, which is very large, however we take, and about 1/3 of the children will receive subsidies in one way or another 100%. So, money will also be moved to elementary school, which has never happened before. And for this reason, I think we should talk about this being socialistic; I am fortunate to have some more socialist thinking in this country, that we are still thinking that those people who simply don't have it, without it being able, but that they simply don't have the opportunity to earn enough to pay the full value or at least 1/3 of the value of the meal to allow these people to have the same lunch as those who have enough money at home, the same lunch, no pay, while others are paying 1/3 of the value. I have to say, when we've heard a lot about discarded food today, I think it happens a lot. So, first of all, the talk was about the Court of Auditors finding that 160,000 euros per year of food is being discarded. Yes! Those foods that aren't even distributed! In addition, it is necessary to read this data to the end that the assessment of school principals, who were about 45%, was not a small number of secondary schools to find that students divided meals are said not to represent 7% of undistributed meals, but that divided meals end in dumpsters between 10 and 17%. So at least 17% of all food paid by the state 100% was discarded. I have to say that he doubts that once again there is a need to say bob beans and that we have more and more families in the country who do not have the opportunity to pay food for their children - a colleague from the SDS Group asked the Minister of Education what he will do a while ago, because the principals find that more and more families are not able to pay food to children in primary school and what the Government will do to solve this. This is one of the ways to solve it! And that's why I think when we're talking about a 100% subsidy, this is the way to universal civic income, but it's got a little bit of time ahead of it. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u220	Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u221	Thank you very much, colleagues! If that's how you think when you take a free lunch to high school kids, you'll save the baskets around high school, high school, you're wrong. That's wrong. It would be more necessary, of course, to exercise control over those who do and those who do not need to do so; and those who do so should not receive a meal. In short, control needs to be established inside. However, it is good to say that there is still some socialism left in this country or socialism. There's really something left! In fact, poverty remained for the vast majority or for the vast majority of these citizens and citizens. But there was something left for individuals like Kordesh and the company that paid 12 million. Colleagues and colleagues, you've been in power for two years. These should be collected and disabled by taxes. And, of course, this money to get under control and hence to take care of both the diet of children in school, for such a large salary, both for the sharing of profits and for what we have proposed in the Slovenian People's Party for those few thousand pensioners who live with 160 euros of pension. One of the discussers said that you showed in this coalition that you did something for this country. Really. You've done a lot in one year! You brought this country from 32nd to 52nd. We used to say, "Well, yeah, we go to Hungary, it's cheap there. There we'll buy a lot of things for a little bit of money." The Hungarians will now easily go to Slovenia because they are at a significantly higher point than Slovenia. So, here's the problem. But you're going to solve it where you don't really need it. Give lunches to elementary school - right! Not at the expense of picking up high school kids. And to distinguish children from richer and less rich and poor in school, one can see enough from the other. You don't have to do that. Those rich parents, of course, need to collect these, mostly unjustifiable, profits. And not just unjustifiable profits. The property came mainly after unjustifiable wages, which, of course, all the years in fact, at least some of us sitting in this hall have been alerted. Unfortunately, it didn't help. I will support this amendment, and I hope it will be accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Juri, that there will be no misunderstandings, Mr Brulc has another debate, and then we will open a new round and you are already marked for discussion. Is he okay? Because I really don't know what a replica is. Brultz, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u223	I'll replicate if I can. As stupid as it's just been said. What does Hungary have to do with our school meals? Have you ever been to Monoster? Well, go check it out! Mrs. Jeraeva, you made one sausage that wouldn't even be for a school lunch. Primary school kids - seriously, professionally speaking. I've been a principal for 30 years and I know what food is in primary school, I know what food is in high school, and I know what students need. And to say what was said now and that's why the stones were thrown here yesterday: you took the high school kids free lunch! Yeah, who's that? We took part of it to those who drive with BMWs to school. We took those on vacation in Nova Gorica, instead of having lunch with high school students, to the street, to a coffee shop, and to cigarettes. We'll take those and those who are rich. We're not all as rich. We didn't! My kid, if he had one in primary school, doesn't need the state to subsidize his lunch. This is the difference, and let us be honest with one another. The poor guy needs help. It's not segregation, it's not branding kids in school! You know, when we have to go to school in nature, how many times in school we've taken a kid to a store, we bought him a sweatpants with school money to go to a decent school in nature -- no big words. My classmates didn't even know. It's social, and that's what we're proud of. And here what you're saying is amazing. Seriously! I can't say otherwise. Look, it probably doesn't make sense to talk any further, because everything is clear. You'll talk your way. Those who don't listen, who don't know the contents, will just grab this and throw rocks. The point of the Ministry of Education is that managers are familiar with this legislation, which requires high school students to teach what their rights are and what they are taking and what is added to them. Their pierar should have said that then the drunk kids here wouldn't have screamed everything on average last night, and everything sucks. That's what I expect from the Ministry. This marriage is good, it is fair to those who need help, and it is fair to those who have a crazy superstandard and will give 15 euros - instead of three packs of cigarettes they will give for lunch. And that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u224	As we discussed this in the second reading, we held a third round of discussions on the essential issues of this law. Anybody else want to discuss this? He doesn't want to. So, I conclude the debate on the amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party and we are moving on to a decision on this amendment. We're voting. Excuse me? An explanation of the voice? Mrs. Flower, please. Can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I ask for three minutes of recess to decide how we will vote in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u226	Three minutes of rest. Please, let's sit here and I'll watch the clock.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-20-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u227	We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 15. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 26, 43 votes against. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment was not accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. We're moving on to a decision on the law. I am informing you that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that, due to the amendments adopted, the bill would not have been harmonised. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt today's meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you very much.
