ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Renata Brunskole, Ljubo Germič, Janez Ribič, Radovan Žerjav, Marijan Križman from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. and Bojan Kontic. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY – THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE LAW OF THE COUNTRY OF THE BOOK IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u2	Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, good morning! Allow me to present to you the proposal or content of the proposed amendment to the Land Book Act. I'm sure you remember the situation a few weeks ago when we all received notices in the real estate valuation process. I'm sure you also remember that the announcements were followed by a wave of citizens who wanted to check their situation in the land book, the land register status of the property they owned. The oppression we have witnessed in the land registers is, after this proposal I am presenting to you today, more or less a matter of the past. This proposal, which you are considering today, is likely to constitute a decisive new step in the informationisation of land-bookkeeping procedures and the transition to full electronic commerce. This novel is an upgrade and completion of already-initiated information stages that have been running for a number of years. This proposal is also the most serious intervention in land law since 2003. Prior to the entry into force of the Law on Land Book 1, a gradual informationisation of the main book and all other subsequent phases of land-book business began. Today's novelty is the conclusion of this process, which aims at accelerating and simplifying the registration procedures in the Land Book, and thus, of course, means greater legal certainty for the parties. The substantive provisions of the law remain the same and unchanged following the proposal of this amendment. This amendment concerns only amended procedural rules, i.e. the procedure for submitting proposals, the procedure for implementing the entry. What, then, are the main advantages that this novel brings? Full information on land-book business is the main objective. This is essentially based on the introduction by the novel of an electronic investment of all land-book deposits. An electronic collection of documents is also being introduced, which will from now on form the basis of the main book, which is already computerised. This electronic document collection means greater accessibility for customers who will be able to examine these documents electronically at all entry points, which will, in the new way, be more inappropriate than today, when only 44 are in the form of district courts, and it is necessary to visit each individual court in the area of which a particular property is located. All of this will be gone in the future because the system will be central and will allow access from each of the entry points. Accessibility will also be increased due to the simplified procedure for the submission of land-book proposals. Today, land-book proposals must be made in district courts which are localally competent for each property, i.e. in the courts where the properties lie. i Following this proposal, this will be possible with more than 90 notaries and with more than a thousand lawyers, if they choose to do so, but the state's attorneys will do so for the country, and the municipalities' attorneys will do so if the municipalities so decide. There has been a lot of talk about these qualified investors, who are only notaries, and partly lawyers, and for the state and the municipalities, lawyers. Why is that necessary? This is because we are coming, as I said, to a fully-informed collection of documents and entry points that make land-book proposals, they are also converting the documents that are the basis for the entry into electronic form. Thus, the paper sheet becomes an electronic document, an electronic original and, as such, a basis for the decision of the court. This conversion cannot, of course, be trusted by anyone, it must be qualified and the conversion must be credible and therefore the possibility of investing is limited to those entities which fulfil such conditions. If I finish. What will we gain from the new proposal for land book legislation? This legislation provides, as I have said, complete information. What does the state gain by doing so? The country thus acquires a more up-to-date land book, a more economical business in land-book matters. What do citizens gain? Citizens will receive a service that will be faster for them, which will be easier to access, a service that will provide them with better quality, and a service that will, as a result, provide them with better legal certainty. All of this is for a price lower than what citizens pay today, so I propose that you support this amendment with Members today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Vink Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee dealt with this law on 4 November 2010, and the proposaler is, of course, the Government. The Committee had several documents available: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Council of State, the opinion of the Council of Justice, the Community letter of the municipalities of Slovenia, the letter of the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, the letter of 32 other municipalities, the clarification of the Ministry of Justice to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the clarification of the Ministry of Justice to the letters of municipalities. The proposer, the Ministry of Justice and, on his behalf, the Secretary of State, Mr Škrlec, briefed the Committee on the content of the law. Actually, we just heard that too, so I wouldn't repeat it. The Legislative and Legal Service, Dr. Divac alone, said that the comments from their written opinion were partly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, but reiterated that the proposal for a law meant extensive amendments and additions to the current Land Book Act, which significantly interfered with the legal rules of the law. The representative of the Community of Slovene municipalities Siniša Pavlovič said that their protest concerning the limitation of the capacity and the preservation of documents in notaries linked the municipalities to the same thinking. The amendment, which provides for the return of documents under the jurisdiction of the decision, is satisfactory and once again suggested that municipalities or mayors and their representatives be allowed to make their own proposals on land. In the debate, Members of the SDS Group opposed the limitation of this ability and expressed fear that there would be cartel negotiations between notaries and lawyers regarding the representation of parties. They therefore proposed that the Committee, with its amendments, should maintain the status quo, but their proposal did not receive the support of the coalition members. Coalition Members supported the bill. In its vote, the Committee adopted amendments to SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS by Articles 7, 21, 23, 37, 39, 53, 54, 56, 75, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96 and 97 and did not adopt the same amendments to Article 99. The Committee adopted its amendment to Article 99. The consolidated text of the law, which includes amendments, is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Since the 20th meeting was held on the first reading of the draft law, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 18 11. 2010 We move on to paragraphs 23, 39 and 54. Amendments were tabled in this Article. Since the amendments tabled to this Article of the SDS Group are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 23, 39 and 54 and the amendments of the SDS Group. Anybody want to talk? Please, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u6	Or is it just me? Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u7	We'll see about that. It is probably up to you to discuss what will be the continuation of the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u8	I don't know if everything depends on me in this National Assembly. At the end of his performance, the Secretary of State clearly summed up all the advantages of this law and the last words he used were "and it will all be cheaper." Of course, he holds everything he said even cheaper if you only take into account court fees. But if you consider other costs, which will be mandatory, it will be more expensive. So that's kind of a problem. We, the law, that part of the law, which in fact represents the kind of continuation of the policy that was set out in the previous mandate, and even earlier, that means electronicity, we absolutely support it, because it is good for citizens and because it is also good in the spirit of modern technology, computer science, faster accessibility and everything else. However, a vital question arises. If this law is as good as the Ministry claims, then I do not know why it has accumulated in my folder, I do not know how much, but not less than 60 pages of comments and texts that have come from outside, not within the Group of Members. The questions, the dilemmas related to all these people who sent these comments, including the Municipality of Ljubljana, I stress, also the Municipality of Ljubljana, are relevant. And where is the fundamental conflict? It's about our amendments, of course. The fundamental problem that we see and see all these writers of these texts, however, is that today an individual, an individual, can go to the land book, submit the relevant documents, and make an entry into the land book. I must say, in last year's and partly this year's, I also had these procedures and they were going exactly as I said. What does this law bring, of course, to our amendments again? This law prohibits, I stress, the prohibition of the right of an individual to apply for such a land register at all before a competent court. 2 million citizens who today have the right to apply for land registration are no longer able to do so – so says this law – but this right is passed on to, I don't know, how many, I think 97 notaries, something like that, and some 10 lawyers or a few 100 lawyers if you want. Obviously, everything is fine with this, and it is right to say that it is passed on to them, but in the background there is nothing else, absolutely nothing but what the Ministry has been doing since the beginning of this mandate. And this is the care of a cartel, a cartel called a lawyer-notary cartel in this case. Thus, a few 100 people declare themselves the only qualified to do so can prepare all the necessary documentation on behalf of citizens in order to obtain an electronic land register. The initial proposal of the law was even worse, but with the amendments it was corrected, but it preserves this fundamental dilemma, in fact it is not a dilemma for me, but the preservation of this fundamental provision that some 100 people will be able to earn. And nothing else. Of course, with a court fee, which has also been reduced, this must also be recognised by the Ministry, but this is the next item in the agenda, seemingly even lowering costs. However, it does not take into account how this will take place in practice. As such, not only will he perform such services within the framework of a judicial fee, but he will do other costs. But we know how cartels behave and negotiate, and they don't know political colors when it comes to their earnings. And that is why it is completely realistic and normal to expect the next situation that will happen. I will borrow two names again, so it will be plastic, let's say that Mr Jelinčič is notary and that Mr Majhenič is a lawyer and I am a client. It's gonna look like this. I have to write in the land book some little property that I have since now been able to enter into the law myself and carry my own claim to the land book. Now I'm gonna get to Mr. Jelinčič, who's in there. He will say, "Yes, of course we will arrange everything for you, but look, as a notary I need you and you and these and these documents, which must be in the right form, so that I can bring this to you in the land book. This service is provided by a lawyer. The nearest lawyer is Mr. Majhenič, come to him and he will prepare all the necessary documentation for you." Of course, what I'm going to do is go to lawyer Little Man. This will do all the service for me, prepare everything necessary for the electronic entry and put an account out for me. It's not gonna work for free. It's as clear as day. I will bring such prepared documentation to the notary, Mr Jelinčič, and this will do its job. Look, is this the removal of administrative barriers?Oh, my God! This is not the removal of administrative barriers. Instead of going to the land book and doing it, I have two more steps to take. Of course you'll say to me, "No, only to Jelinčič you have to go." But it's not true. The cartel will do its job because they want to earn both of you, so he's gonna send me to a lawyer. People need to be told plastic. I think that even in reality it is necessary to say, in this Chamber, with real cases, and that will be the case. And my final cost as a consumer of this service will grow enormously. Experts in this field, who are extremely opposed to this law or to this provision, were not able to calculate precisely, but were able to make an assessment. They said between 10 and 30 million euros. I believe that today all those who start to do so, that this law will be enforced, do so,'mother, we will earn', don't we. That's logical, and that's perfectly normal from their point of view. For me, another step would be acceptable, even if the notaries were those. Even if the notaries are the ones, because notaries are some kind of public service and they're not some private people like lawyers, and we can't count on them. Even if we pass this on to the notaries, but for the same costs as they were now. At the same cost. However, it is not only the legal fees that are taken into account because there are other costs. Following the initial proposal of the law, which was improved, the notaries were the ones who archived it. Probably not for free either. And imagine someone in Postojna who bought the property, according to previous definitions, he could have gone to Murska Sobota and he would have it there, and he would have it on the Notary on Murski Sobota. This man dies in a car accident. Which of his descendants will find the documentation if he doesn't even know he's on the Sabbath? But well, that's improved. The fundamental issue and the fundamental problem that remains is what I said: 10 to 30 million for our cartel. The paying of taxpayers, all the people who run these procedures, the Ministry doesn't care, and that's not right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? We'll just file a report. I'm asking you to sign up. He's got Anton Kolaric's word first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Let me just say that I will not support the amendments that have been tabled. Personally, I think, but also as I know the matter, it is mainly about the improvement of the law that was passed in the National Assembly, I think that in 2003, and also by the previous government, Minister Šturm has not substantially corrected or continued to digitise this land book. In 2008, the deadline was also set for all procedures to be completed by May 2009, and the deadline was extended due to the incomplete information system and now it is time to complete all these procedures and actually move on to this digitisation. I personally don't think it's any cartels, etc. Here are the notaries, here are the lawyers, here is the defence, and under the law on local self-government, the municipalities have the opportunity to set up local defences, which would lead to procedures on their behalf. In addition, we have a three-year transitional period so that those who have an express wish hear that very few do so in the land book. I think it is right for us to move once to actual states, to such a land book that will actually allow for a proper view that the records in the land book will also reflect the actual situation. I support the adoption of the law and do not support the adoption of amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues and others present! I think that what is proposed in the law, although it has a lot of legitimate reasons and a lot of good intentions, is some abuse and heavy burden on potential investors, which can be any citizen. It is unacceptable to introduce land-book proposals only by professional authorities, notaries, lawyers. For the first time, this is the desecration of an average citizen. If from Mary Teresa was a citizen of the then monarchy and thus every Slovenian is justified to have made this his own, the current proposal which gives us the right to invest is through professional officials, an attack on the integrity of an individual. The Land Book must have this service to turn the proposal into an electronic form and that it is sufficient for all that this law provides for in the objectives of the law, is information, digitisation, better accessibility. Now, however, to comment on the anarchy in the land book that was created through the previous regime and even now in the time of the new authorities, and we know whose influence the courts have been solely and how they respond, and now use this anarchy to make financial use of the potential investor, says the average citizen. In this coalition, you have estimated that notaries are obviously a majority closer to this option of yours and that there is a need to support a financial group, which are also outstanding opinion leaders. This group of people are opinion leaders. And with this proposal, you are also conducting elections in some way. I'm sure. This is again about enormous profits. We know that in your previous term, when Minister Sturm regulated and reduced these enormous profits, you objected because you wanted to ensure the long-term support of these people and their impact on citizens. This political observation is also incorporated into this law. Do not make fun of Slovenian citizens so that they are not able to continue to submit land-book proposals and, with the appropriate service of the court, the state indirectly, do so, and that without this, they cannot improve the situation in the land book and access to all the data immediately. It is clear that there are notaries through this option, but I have nothing against them, because in a democratic country we have reintroduced their institution, communism has eliminated it, but of course they are in some way more protected. Look, now we're running out of time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u13	Comrade Jerovšek, the general debate was held at the 20th meeting. We are discussing amendments relating to electronic commerce, very interesting amendments. Please, we're within the framework of the amendments. There are no amendments to the worldview definition of notaries, I am not telling you that you are talking about this, but I am warning you that we do not have such an amendment. Please, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u14	Mr. President, you've abused again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u15	Mr. Jerovšek, be careful [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u16	ill-intentionedly interpreted that I was talking about the world-view definition [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u17	If you don't, I'll take your word for it right now if you charge the President of the National Assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u18	I'm not talking about worldview. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u19	Continue with the debate on the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u20	And it's Satex, the statute of limitations today at midnight or yesterday at midnight or today at 00, where the actors involved are notaries. And that the minister did nothing until two days before he got older, it was outrageous to see this interest, politically and in every way to support, even materially, such ambitions. But these are individuals within the Notary who also have a disgrace in the Minister. That in such a terrible case, the Minister of Labour may abuse financial fraud and all that, embezzlement, it is perfectly clear. The Minister should have stepped down at midnight today because of the statute of limitations of the Satex case. The Prime Minister should have suspended him. Now he's going to replace the President of the Court.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u21	Mr Jerovšek, please remain in the framework of the debate on the amendments and your opinion on the resignation of the Ministry, which you can rightly always give, explain elsewhere but not now at this meeting or within this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u22	Mr President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u23	This is a second warning, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u24	You're in pain, but you need to say it urgently. I continue to say that any eligible candidate in the Land Book can be a capable citizen. As a result of this, you are charging extra costs, expenses to an average citizen, and therefore you are segregated between citizens. The rich will be able to have things arranged on the land book again, and the poor will be further relieved because things will not be arranged and will be affected in any case. For this reason, I think it is also unconstitutional to violate equality before the law, the rule of equality, and also violate the constitutional principle of confidence in law. In this way, you are changing legal standards to create inequality of citizens. And once again, yesterday's statute of limitations and the Satex issue show how unequal citizens are in this country. Rich people can buy their virginity in today’s courts. And they bought it. In 12 years, justice has not been able to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u25	Mr Jerovšek, please remain within the framework of the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u26	I can explain where the dog taco prays if I say metaphorically, the Ministry, tell you where the background is. And this is the same background: to support some individuals to be abnormally rich, and the average citizen will be disadvantaged, damaged and therefore necessary [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u27	Mr Jerovšek, I must take away your word for educational reasons [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u28	For this reason, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u29	That's a third warning. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u30	if necessary [[...]] [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. The Secretary of State, then Silven Majhenič, spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have already said a lot in the context of the general debate and also in the Committee's consideration. But since some of the readings persist, we also need to repeat the explanations. With regard to the perception that it is somehow the most persistent repetition that these services will now be more expensive for citizens and citizens, two must be said. The next item on the agenda for today's session is the Law on Court Fees, where the fees are lower. Why court fees go down in land matters, we've already explained, let me say it again. For the sake of complete information, the courts will have less technical work and work in land register procedures. This, of course, makes it appropriate to lower taxes in this part. This is one of the measures. However, the second measure, which I have also mentioned, is a reduction in the notary tariff. The notary tariff will be reduced in the part relating to fees, or will be changed in the part relating to the fees for entering the land book; I apologize, I said 'noise' will be corrected. The total amount of all fees paid by the citizen, if he submits a landscaping proposal today, will be lower than what the citizen pays today if he submits a land-book proposal himself, following a new arrangement with reduced judicial fees and a revised notary tariff. Let me say this complicated sentence once again very simply so that the public understands. What man does today alone, and what he will do tomorrow at the notary, will be cheaper tomorrow at the notary. This is a message that I want to make very clear. The reason that this will be cheaper is because the legal fees have been reduced. I was talking about numbers in the general debate. If you want, I can quote numbers and amounts again, for how much this service will be cheaper for the notary tomorrow. It is always forgotten that 95 % of the entries in the Land Book have already been made on the basis of the documents issued by the Notary. These are notaries certified or notaries in the form of notary records. So the fact that people go to the notary in the land book case is nothing new. As a rule, they go to the notary because it must be certified by the notary or in the form of a notary record for a legal land permit. Once the notary becomes a qualified investor, this will mean that, for the parties, for the citizens who face these procedures, they will also complete the notary and will not have to draw up their own land-book proposals at home. The other costs we are talking about, I must say, flat and without arguments. There are no other costs. There are no other costs to enter. Many comments were to be made on the regime under consideration today. Many comments were due to misunderstandings. We have already resolved a lot of this misunderstanding at the time of coordination, in the general debate, in the debate on the Committee. There's still some misunderstanding. I believe that there will be some misunderstanding, unfortunately, after this debate. But those key reasons why the right to make land-book proposals to qualified investors is limited remain a matter of great misunderstanding. What's this all about? The point is that with the new computerised system, if we are to implement it fully, we need to end the paper business. The paper business can only be disposed of in such a way that the documents that are the basis for the entry into the land book, and these documents are always paper, are converted into electronic form. And the only rational way to change these documents in electronic form is to change them at the time a land application is submitted when the registration procedure is initiated. And if we want to do so in such a way that we can trust this transformation, it is, of course, essential that those who are worthy of this conversion do so. And the notariat, as defined in our constitution, is specifically designed to protect public interest and to protect customers who come with their requests and requests. This instrument has existed since 1995. And what we are having to deal with today is their duty, which was introduced in 2008, in the previous term, with the amendment to the Land Book Act. A provision had already been introduced at the time that the notary was obliged to make an entry into the land book unless the party expressly opposed it. And we haven't changed that. Even today, if a client doesn't want to do this to her, she can go to a lawyer, and this entry is made by a lawyer. But that's what he does for himself. We have opened this option only because lawyers in judicial proceedings are entitled to represent the parties. And a landscaping procedure is a court of law. And if the client really wants to, because he trusts his lawyer to do this to her and not to do it, we've allowed it to happen, but it's more an exception than a rule. As a rule, all in one place will be established for the party. The notary will also receive a written and tabled land-book proposal when he certifies his signature. Why is that important? This is important because the land of the book is based on two fundamental principles. One is the principle of trust in the land book and the other is the constitutionality of writing into the land book. The constitutionality of the entry means that no one owns the property until it is legally entered into the land book. If we agree to sell and buy real estate, if we pay the purchase, if we go to the notary, if the notary checks the contract, everything is great, but the customer is not yet the owner. He's not the owner. The owner becomes when he is entered in the land book and a proposal must be made for this entry. If you ask people who have to or want to make land-book proposals, whether that is possible, I can answer you with certainty, it is not easy. It is not easy to draw up a land book proposal. Speaking of which, it's a right, a privilege of customers, is, to say the least, a delusion. It's a burden for the parties. Today, instead of doing so, real estate agencies — let’s be honest — sometimes secretly charged. Very few people are making direct, land-book proposals themselves. However, those who do so do so do the wrong thing in 80%, and as a result, the Court calls them with the recommended shipments to supplement, to clarify, and this correspondence takes energy and time for both courts and, more importantly, for the parties who are becoming increasingly frustrated. All of this is avoided by a qualified investor who clears the matter and submits a landscaping proposal that is adequate and complete. Statistics show that today the land book proposals tabled by notaries in the vast majority are appropriate and complete, that the imperfect are very few. In doing so, we will ensure to the parties that they will also become owners of what they have bought, and they will not have problems and additional ways and efforts to make additional efforts on the way to register what they have been paid honestly and for what they have agreed to be theirs. As I have already said, since the collection of documents is electronic, computerised, it is necessary to ensure that the paper is converted, which is the basis for the entry into electronic form, since the electronic document becomes the original. And why is that important? This is important because the main book, which has already been computerised, will be fully operational and the entire land book will be fully informed when the documents are also computerised. This means that there will be no more paperwork in court, so there will be large savings in judicial staff, large savings will be in postal services because there will be no more mail service. The costs of electronic commerce, compared to paper, will be approximately 4 : 1. So much savings will go away from the need for service. This is illustrated by the experience of registration procedures. In the case of a court registry which has been fully informed for several years, these are actually manipulative or, if you want, the administrative and technical costs of the court's operation are so low that the need for a court tax has completely dropped. And there's no more court fees for these proceedings. I hope that this will be such an experience that it will also show up in land-book matters. Make sure we give bread to the cartel, to the cartel, who are notaries. Already now 60% of all land-book proposals are directly submitted by notaries. So it's not something that the notaries would have nothing today, but now they're going to have a huge new one. As for the fact that this cartel is now strengthened, let me say that two million people in Slovenia are now burdened with very precise and painful composition of land-book proposals. They don't have to do this anymore. The price they will pay for this will be lower than the price they pay today if they invest. You need to know that if they don't do it themselves today, they do it instead of their lawyer or notar, and of course it charges. Then the cost is even higher. Our calculation, which I spoke about in the general debate, is based on the calculation of the costs incurred by the party today, provided that he has drawn up his own physical proposal and sent it to the court. But these cases are a few percent. They usually do this for the citizens of a real estate agency or lawyers or a notary that specifically charges it. Therefore, the notary tariff will be amended to include this new system as a whole. Since the fee is reduced and the notary rate adjusted, it means that the notary’s complete service to be performed will cost the client less than it costs today. As I have already said, if necessary, I can also repeat these numbers further, but I would not want to bore you with this if it is not necessary. I'm not going to answer those allegations when, in the previous form, the law laid down a deposit in notaries, which would certainly be charged, not just because it wasn't true, because this storage was free, but mainly because the law was changing in the meantime. And we have supported these changes. That's good, too. And that doesn't make it seem obvious to me that we're changing the law because we're improving it. As for the agreement that the parties should agree that the parties will now send the parties to the lawyer to complete the application, and this charges further, abuses are always possible in each system. This system doesn't encourage them. This system creates a situation in which it will encourage less abuse. For the interior is already obliged to make an entry today and, if the customer expressly requests, it is also obliged to make an incomplete entry or entry on the basis of incomplete data. This is a provision that we have in law because we do not wish to deny the parties access to the court. If the client disagrees with the notary's proposal to go to another lawyer or to add something to it, if the client disagrees, he can calmly say to the notary: "No. Please make an entry based on this documentation that is in front of you." The notary is obliged to do so and the notary is also obliged to write in a special note that he did so on a proposal and a request from the party. So that speculation about these mutual agreements is not justified. With regard to the perceptions that the notary cartel, as has been said repeatedly in the public eye, will now be followed by a group of people protecting the public interest. And at the Ministry of Justice, we've been very careful in overseeing their business, even more intensely than ever. And this intensity will not be reduced precisely because they are acquiring new powers, and it is therefore essential that we also ensure that they carry out their duties faithfully and in accordance with the law. There is a figure between 10 million and 30 million in profit to be earned. This number is very flat, and I'm not going to say it's malicious, but it's significantly different from what the data shows. With a quick calculation, we have shown that if, at today's tariff, we were to calculate the value of what the notaries will get, this would not be worth more than €7.3 million. But given that notaries are already investing 60% of their deposits today, and given that this gap is not going to be as big as it seems at first glance, we estimate that at the end of the day, there will be income, a supplement to what they will receive, about 2.5 million for all notaries, which means EUR 25 000 gross per notary in a year. This amount is already something else, and you must take into account that notaries, due to this new competence, will be obliged to purchase machinery, will be obliged to provide services that have not yet been obliged to perform, and of course will also have more technical tasks than they have now. But again, even with this additional inflow, the customer service will be cheaper than it is today if it is done alone. As a result, I cannot accept the impression that this will be more expensive for the parties. I think I've responded to the main findings that have arisen. If necessary, I will be happy to explain further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State! I think I'm gonna blow it myself, but I hope you don't interrupt me. In order to fully inform all procedures for the implementation and decision-making of entries, the applicant has laid down completely new rules. The electronic submission of land-book proposals and other applications will be introduced and will be made by notaries, lawyers or lawyers who will also be the only legal representatives. It is, as the applicant points out, to modernise and rationalise the conduct of court proceedings in land-book matters. As noted in the proposal, all matters shall be submitted in an electronic copy certified by the notary as a person with public authority by electronic signature. It is envisaged that, on the basis of such operations, the costs and costs of service will also be reduced. The written roles of the participants will be accepted by one central depository. Of course, this is not about the roles that go through the authorised representatives. Only notaries and lawyers will perform the services after the transition period. It is clearly a monopolization of lawyers and notaries, which is why the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Ombudsman disagree, which justifies their position that the law is not based on reasonable and well-founded reasons and that the municipalities have different views. The law does not solve the problem of monopolisation and bottlenecks and does not contain the effects of new regulations on the economy. The preparation did not take into account the profession that offered improvements that would allow faster integration into the space, which is certainly a topic and a problem that is also addressed on the committees, so solutions should be offered that will be optimal for rapid and effective integration into the space itself. The applicant explains that the main objective of the amendment is to simplify the registration procedure in the Land Book and thereby increase the legal security of individuals in legal traffic with real estate and that it is to upgrade the formalisation stages already started, which means that it does not agree with the Legislative and Legal Service, which points out that this is an essential intervention in the Land Book Act. It is not only editorial corrections but also changes and additions that point to the ten-year understanding of certain elements of the land book. It also draws attention to the short-term transition from one to another, and to the lack of information from people who are not fully aware of the fact that you are only owner by entering the land book. The electronicisation of the land book is a sure gain, but some uncertainties still need to be addressed and corrected, and in some ways amendments also offer. There is no hurry because the previous marriage is not so bad that it should be replaced immediately. We will decide in the Slovenian National Party on the adoption of the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I suppose I would even hope to predict that the amendments will not be accepted, but I will support them myself. And even though I know they won't accept it, I will support the law without these amendments. The law does, however, bring improvements to this area, and even though we will fail what seems to me to be optimally achieved, we will still achieve some improvement, so I do not want to withdraw my vote. However, I would like to highlight and draw attention to some of the weaknesses that have been mentioned several times in the adoption process and I think it is worth repeating again. First time. It is that, as I understand these amendments, the amendments summarise the concerns of more than 10 qualified, or local communities, or economic operators that have performed these services so far and will not be able to do so again, at least in one part not because of the monopolisation of this service, and I am not overly inclined to do so. I don't know why we should interfere in the free market, in competitiveness, which, at least normally, if well regulated enough, has positive effects for all of us. The ministry's responses to some concerns were, at least some, such that they were not the most appropriate arguments for me. One such example was, czech, the economic chambers only advocated keeping the business. Why are there chambers of commerce? Their legitimate and interesting role is to defend the interests of business operators. And why should business entities, if not to gain a business, do it properly and eventually get it even paid? So this argument that they're dealing with business is not the right argument in my judgment. It is appropriate to go to business entities for business, with which they ultimately provide employment and contributions to public cash registers. Another such argument that we have been able to read in writing is the argument that economic operators are not as committed as people of public confidence, because they can advertise their activities because they are therefore otherwise presented in public, which, for example, lawyers cannot. And this is also not an appropriate argument for me to exclude them from the market "competition". These two arguments are those which, in my judgment, misinterpret the business entities and them, again in my judgment, which is not the only one, of course, the dozens of entities have been thinking so, which one part of the business is withdrawing from business entities. Another comment or other response to the comments of the local communities is that the reply that the local community can defend its own defences would have a weight if we were given in writing an analytical report, how many such local communities, how many issues have been dealt with in this way, what are the results, whether we should assess them as positive or not. Because by simply voicing that we have an option that is, as it were, no one takes advantage of it, the question arises why: is it an institute, or is it an option that is merely a declaration, but in practice does not have those who would use it. Despite some concerns, I consider the law to be positive, given the current situation, because it follows three objectives. The first objective is to provide this information, which is advocated by all and could also be provided in a different way. The second is the unloading of the courts. I think that this is even a major objective for the applicants, which can be good, but it is not necessarily. If we take the whole procedure into consideration, from the beneficiary to the notary, to the court – and make a feedback loop – from the notary who should now return the documents to the beneficiary after the amendments, this loop will be longer than it should be. And if it is only shorter for the court, it will still be longer for all the participants in this process than it should have been. And the third objective that the applicant is likely to pursue is that the services would be quick, cheap, quality to ensure legal certainty, etc. I don't see why it would be different if, under the same conditions, we could "competise" those who so far have been professionally providing these services. And when you talk about the percentages of applications made by notaries and the percentages of the wrong roles, then we get a paradox. 60% of all applications were made by notaries and 40% were incomplete, which would theoretically mean that notaries were those who invested only good and perfect roles and everyone else was wrong. That's just not true. If that were the case, we should come up with an analysis: how many imperfect, bad, wrong roles have professional institutions submitted, economic operators, how many local communities have not been able to do so, and they would find that this result, which is presented to us through the percentages here, is unrealistic or blurred. I am convinced that economic operators, as well as local communities, should also be allowed to participate in this process under different conditions of information, and this would be at least as good for individuals, beneficiaries and certainly not worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, everyone else present, welcome! I consider this law to be a group of laws, where most solutions are very good. So that's for sure. We have quite a few of them in the last period, and I can extend this last period quite a bit back, but unfortunately there are some provisions that go a little too far after my assessment or too narrow or whatever we call it. Surely this digitisation, which has already been mentioned many times today, is the right course, and there are many other solutions. But on this question, who can invest and who can not, who is so far and who will be in the future, is not so much about who can do it, but how safe this process is. I certainly agree with that. However, I do not agree with the fact that a safe procedure can only be provided with a handful of those who will by some means be able to say the monopoly in which this security is ensured. Certainly, some monopolies have been taken away from them in the past few laws in recent years — I speculate a little — if I so designate them, powers and apparently they need to be returned to some monopolies because they have already complained in the meantime that certain activities or certain powers are being lost and that other operators can perform certain services. I have read thoroughly the opinion and comments of the Economic Chamber and many municipalities, including the associations of municipalities, and I agree that every citizen, too, is probably neither qualified nor able to provide technical means to make these land-book proposals. But some are assured that they have strong legal services, both in the municipalities and in many societies, so that these powers, or this possibility of operation and self-employment, are also left to them. In order not to repeat the other colleagues now, I will support these amendments in particular with a desire, because I agree that in the third reading it may be necessary to discuss what I have discussed at the last moment, but only to identify certain entities that would be given this opportunity to make land-book proposals. The institutions are certainly highly qualified and can also provide for a safe procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Joseph Jerovšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Look, I have to respond to the implementation of the Secretary of State, who has expressed his concerns, to the argument here, as if from now on they were going to notariat part of Karitas or charities, and there will be no costs, they will work in charity and so on. And, of course, you also mentioned in this how it was passed from a charter business, that the courts would no longer have a paper business. Of course, I support the progress and expediency of the courts. It is only, Mr Secretary of State, and your Minister, who comes from a party that has had the longest period of justice in this country, that we know that Mrs Cerarjev was earlier, Mr Kozinc and so on, but whether you have made progress. Can you convince us with these arguments? The Satex case lasted 12 years and was absolutely outdated. There the notaries exercised their rights or interests and rights. That's where they put them in place. And you keep telling us how it's going to go faster. The path is slower. You want to give some cartel even more power. Look, in the monarchy paradise, when Mary Teresa founded the land book, and this paradise monarchy we later understood the Slovenians as a prisoner of the nations, but despite that, the Slovenians did not declare themselves incompetent and were not offended by it. By what you're doing now, you're insulting the Slovenians.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u41	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u42	If this is the biggest problem, just turning a written document into an electronic document, I am convinced that there are also some computer experts in this area who are significantly larger. Why do some people have to have a monopoly? The Earth Book should be able to convert this document into an electronic document and perform this service. Far from believing it would be cheaper now. That's all your ministers, Eldeesov, making sure it gets cheaper. It's getting more expensive in court. It's all connected to higher costs. And in what way can we believe that something better will happen to you in the matter of Satex? The most deserving are the justice ministers, that the Satex case has evolved like this, they're from your client. And, Mr. President, since you have taken my word for this justification before, I have the right to base it, I must say that you are obviously part of this orange tsunami that they were doing. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u43	Of course, Mr Jerovšek, of course I am and I proudly admit [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u44	Orange Tsunami [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u45	That's all I'm telling you to do is go back to the amendment. I'll explain something later. We are discussing amendments, not whether Maria Teresa was for electronic commerce or not. Please return to the amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u46	Mr President [[...]] [[adverts from benches]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u47	Peace in the Hall [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u48	You have served yourself to the low, which is not in honor of the National Assembly. [[...]] Maria Teresa, I didn't connect in this way. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u49	First warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u50	You are reminding yourself of this because you have misused [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u51	Second warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u52	All right, take my word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. I took your word. The word is Brada Pecan. Please remain all within the framework of the amendments we are discussing.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u54	Mr President, as I understand it, you said in the introduction that we will discuss all the articles that have been amended because all the amendments are interconnected. If we reject the amendment to Article 23, of course none of the following amendments are at all up to date. In this debate, I have felt that at least one of the discussers does not even know what these amendments say and, above all, what the amendment on Article 23 should be. I said some, I didn't say a name, and I didn't say what he didn't know what he was talking about, so I don't think any of the predecessors could invoke the right to a replica right now. And one of them, I can tell you, he knows very well what he's talking about. That's true. This can be considered a compliment. However, I would like to say that I am rejecting these amendments or not voting for any of them or for the first one, and thank God, I will not have to vote on any other, either, because the amendment of the Land Book Act is actually the final phase, the final stage of digitisation of the Land Book and the whole procedure concerning the entry or deletion of the Land Book. So the thing that started already before 2004, which continued intensively over the period 2004-2008, which is now being concluded in this mandate. I must say that comments on the right to scan the document and to deliver the scanned document to the land book – of course, it is necessary to limit it to people who have some special credibility under law. And regardless of the individual escapades of these people who have special credibility in the Notariat Act written. Nevertheless, we are all human beings, and it happens that one of the individuals who has this special credibility can even, if I say "ausglaise" at home. But he is an individual, one of many who is truly credible. When we talk about depriving citizens of their ability to do so, it is, of course, one great larifari. Any citizen who wishes to achieve that his legal business concerning a property may be entered into the land book, must go to the notary, if not, in order to confirm his signature on this contract and sign it, I will say, which has concluded with him a purchase contract or some other legal deal. So it has to go to the notary anyway, and then, of course, it's the easiest and fastest if the document scans the notary and sends it directly to the land book. .This also avoids the possibility that someone on the side would go and, say, book a mortgage on this property at this time when you go from the notary and carry a certified contract on the land book to open a work order for the entry of this purchase contract. I think that this is certainly much safer and much more reliable than if a man flew himself from Pontius to Pilate, so that he could book this legal business into the land book. That's the first one. Second. Comments on municipalities. I myself, of course, had had my doubts about the fact that when I signed a legal document, an act relating to property change or anything else on some property, I went to the notary, there he signed a notary record, because usually we didn't just go on signing, because it was important to us that the notary was also responsible for the content of what we signed, not only for the credibility of our signature. Then, of course, our people ran to the land book and arranged things there. This means that we had to give people additional work, in the congregation of employees, to carry out the book. I think it is more important for us to leave this business to the one who has done it from the beginning, but if the congregation wants to do the same in the book book, please do so with the public defender. As we speak, now that the congregation will have to pay the public defender, all 210 congregations would ask how much money they spend on hiring lawyers because their public servants do not represent the congregation in court. It is said that it would be very useful for 2, 3, 4, 10 municipalities to join each other, to establish a common body of the municipal administration, which is called the Ombudsman, and to have from one or more of the employees of the legal lawyers with a judicial examination, various specialties that would represent these 2 to 20 municipalities in all legal proceedings, including the book of notarly recorded purchase contracts, for example, for some real estate. But, of course, we forget that the cost of such a common public defender in 50% is borne by the state under the law on coherent regional development. I don't know why we're not doing this. Why? Because we're jealous, because it's so hard for mayors to decide to do something with other mayors because it's risky, because then the next mayor can do something more successfully than I can — let's say. When I proposed to set up a joint body of municipal administration, he was not yet subsidized by a state called a municipal attorney, I failed with the neighbouring two municipalities, and unfortunately I proposed this when the municipal attorney was also provided for in the law. We didn't make it. Nor have we succeeded with the common internal auditor, but this would be much more rational and, above all, this internal auditor would be more independent than the internal auditor who works – I apologize, I will stop talking about things that these amendments or those articles do not talk about. [[...]] That's why I think that talking about this amendment and the following amendments about Satex, where it's not even about real estate, where it's not about the land book at all, but it's about the frauds who have been mass-borrowing credits at a bank that was stupid enough to allow it, then of course we don't know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u56	I will follow these amendments very briefly, for which I think they are going this way, that the position expressed by other fellow Members who have advocated why this right would not be wider is correct. I support this matter myself, and just in case, colleague Pečanova, you were talking about my recent experience as well, from the congregation of Krško. In laying down the broadband network throughout the municipality of Krško, it was necessary to make 3 000 500 land-book entries for official rights. These are free service rights that people have renounced and allowed. Under the new law, it will be necessary for such a case to have, I don't know, an attorney's office. But I have to say, let me also use one of the local terms that so far this case has simply staggered in the case of 3,000,500 of these cases. For such cases, there are qualified people within the municipal administration who have been doing this all these years, so I think that the defence can be quite right if the municipalities so decide, but there is probably no reason for more law on the land book to move forward, or for the registration of service rights or land book proposals into the land book. I think we're making a mistake here. Why not allow the congregations and trained institutions that have apparently done so so far to be able to do so in the future. I would not say any more about other matters, but I am also afraid of this authority, which is now moving all over Slovenia, that in 10 years we will not find that we have any problems when we do not know why a judge, an assistant in Murska Sobota, has mistakenly entered some land from Posavje and decided on it in a higher court in Koper, but it is not the domain of these amendments. In this case, however, I think it is also an unfortunate attempt and it is likely that it would be the order of those courts which could currently do so, which remained responsible for the area they represent. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I will not judge who among the coalition Members understands matter and who does not, because this is not my task. I just act like I'm listening to them from those I expect, where I know I have nothing to expect, but I don't listen to them. I know there's no point in convincing people anymore, but my duty to the public and to those who actually sent me to this chair is to say something else within the time available to me. Look, the congregations protested, practically everything. The Association of Municipalities protested, special letters were also sent by the Ljubljana Mayor, I believe that small municipalities will never establish their own defences, which means that costs will now still have. At the same time, I believe that large municipalities such as Ljubljana, Kranj, Celje, Maribor, Novo mesto, perhaps some, have enough knowledge and experts to do this work. No! No! Now we have gone in uniform and in uniform, so that no congregation will be able to submit these requests. And that's bad. To argue that the municipalities can set up the defences is without connection, and this matter has been well-founded by Mrs Pecanova, who said that there are problems here, in fact, in establishing such joint bodies. Well, that won't happen. Of course, the debate said that notary tariffs would be reduced, that court fees were reduced and so on, but that there were still two problems. What the courts received today with judicial fees and contributed significantly to the budget, we are sending to notaries and lawyers today. That's one. And the second question that arises in this; yes, of course, if taxes were laid down by law, one would still "apply" to this matter, because they are not and we can change them at any time, but one cannot "apply" to it. Because the same story is with lawyers: when we cemented them with the tariff law, this coalition said that no, it will not be so, but the tariff will be fixed on the proposal of the Slovenian Bar Association, with the consent of the Minister, because at the moment – I claim that because of the public and the opposition – they did not allow the promotion, but they raised themselves with a simple letter. Now, in the case of court fees, as far as this is concerned, for notary tariffs and so on, you can expect to increase these cases at any time, and certainly not include the other costs of notaries that they will charge anyway. But my debate was about the camera and the public, not about someone paying attention to me. We know that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yes, first Joseph Jerovšek, then Secretary of State. Please, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr President, you're probably going to take my word again because I'm uncomfortable with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u61	Turn to the darkness, Mr Jerovšek, so that you will not be harmed by such things. Please proceed to the darkness.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u62	Noting that you are and legislation in this area has been drafted under the influence of or 80% of your former client or current client's time. And this legislation has not always gone in a positive direction. It went in a positive direction when it was not under the auspices of the former LDS or the current successors. At the time of Mr Sturm, notary tariffs were falling and many were positive. And I have the right to systematically not trust in legislation and implementation, as stated here, because in this area so much has been born in the wrong direction. Such solutions of the ordinary citizen give way to mistrust and it is right to give him up with mistrust because he has been virtually always disappointed so far. Therefore, it is necessary to return, in Article 39a of the existing law, Article 125a, that a landscaping proposal may be submitted by anyone in any district court which is converted into an electronic form upon receipt. The Court should convert it into electronic form and deposit it in a document collection. The Court shall confirm the receipt by means of its secure electronic signature. This is an easy solution and provides an opportunity for equality for all citizens and also for the confidence of citizens – that a citizen in this country will also have confidence in the law, which is a fundamental constitutional principle. I'm sorry, it's under this power. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] And especially with the Satex case, as I said before, it's lost its trust.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I am obliged to provide the following explanation because my LDS colleagues have not responded. LDS had, in my memory, this resort between 1992 and 1996, with Minister Mih Kozinec for about two years and Minister Meto Zupančič for a little less than two years. Later in 2004, she had a judicial minister, Mrs Zdenko Cerar. This is less than five years in 20 years. So much so that you know who led, what was the party's share in running this facility. However, since this is neither the topic nor the amendments of today's debate, and it is possible for general information, I would like to take the floor further to the Secretary of State, Mr Škrlec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me try briefly to give the right answers to those eyewitnesses that appeared after my first performance. With regard to the question that when we define qualified candidates, we are somehow limiting competition and taking business to a certain range of economic operators, let me say that we do not want to block economic initiatives and do not want to take business to anyone. However, it is stipulated in the law that only a lawyer may represent a party for payment in judicial proceedings. So if this is what the entities have done against the payment, at least it's problematic. However, it is certainly not appropriate, nor is it legitimate, for customers, citizens, to pay to an economic operator what the State itself offers them elsewhere. And that's what this is about. In doing so, we want only to achieve that the customer will get what he pays for, and all in one place. With regard to perhaps ambiguity about percentages. I must have counted the numbers a little too fast. 40% of the incomplete applications relate to those applications submitted by citizens themselves, not to those submitted by notaries, there is a percentage of the corresponding deposits more than 80%, if the memory does not deceive me, I do not want to say more than 90, although I have in memory the number 90, but I prefer to say 80 out of caution. As far as the congregations are concerned. The municipalities really protested the first proposal, but these protests were submitted before the amendment was corrected. We listened to these warnings from the congregations very carefully, and we tried to find a solution that would help the congregations to cope with the problem they faced. However, it must be said that their proposals cannot be followed entirely because of the need to maintain a qualified converter if I use this ugly foreign, paper documents in electronic form, and unfortunately we cannot trust the municipality, we can only trust a notary who is a person of public trust who, by law, certifies the authenticity and regularity of the records or the conformity of copies with the original. As to why there is actually a problem in the congregations, I think it is good to clarify this, even for the public to understand what is going on. The point is that the congregations today do not pay a court fee. This is a privilege that I consider to be legitimate and I have no intention of even disconcerting. But it is because the congregations do not pay court fees, of course, that a new obligation arises for them to pay a notary which is not compensated for a lower court fee, as is the case with all other natural persons. But let us tell you what the amount is, what is this expense that the congregation will have in the notary process when a land book proposal is put in place of them, unless, of course, they take advantage of the opportunity that the novel gives them. This cost will be €6 for properties worth up to €2 000 and will be worth €12 for those properties worth up to €11,000. For properties worth up to 130 000, this will cost 44 euros. Well, it's not that high. Of course, it is important to say that we, with the desire to make it easier for the municipalities to do business without unnecessary burdens, have added a provision that allows municipal lawyers to be completely equal with state defenders. Such an attorney will be able to do all the work. I understand that the establishment of the defence is a particular challenge for the congregation, but I also ask that the public and Members understand above all that the Land Book Act is intended for two million Slovenians in particular. And for these procedures, they're much simpler. They will receive a professional service that will be faster and more accessible to them and which will be cheaper. Unfortunately, it is not possible to solve the problem of the municipality in a different way than to completely change the system, and then, of course, the change of the system does not have these effects, which are so persistently repeated, facilitate accessibility, faster procedure, more quality service because it is carried out by a professional who, by the way, is also more responsible for what he is doing. And in the end, this service is, of course, cheaper for citizens. With regard to the general local jurisdiction at the end, however, let me say something that today was not much of a talk. The general local jurisdiction and the unified information system of the land book will indeed mean that in the land book proposal that will be submitted for land in, say, Krskem the referent God knows where, perhaps in Murski Sobota, maybe in Koper, we do not know. But the advantage of this system is that the central system will distribute proposals coming from all sides of Slovenia to this central collection site to those who have the shortest species. Which means that the proposal will always come to the shortest possible range. And this means that the decision-making time in all matters throughout Slovenia will be the same. It's not today. Today, in courts where they have fewer old cases, time is very short, and in courts where there are many old cases and where there are largely many properties, such as in Ljubljana or Maribor, the decision-making time can of course be significantly longer. And this new solution will also allow those citizens living in such places to be treated as quickly as any other citizen in Slovenia. In essence, this amounts to accessibility to the court and also to the speed of decision-making on their claims, which is why I do not think that this can be bad. Whether the application will be decided by a referee in place A or in place B, it does not really matter. It is important that the application is decided correctly and correctly. However, if it is incorrect, there are, of course, legal remedies, which are normally decided in the third place where the higher court is. In the end, let me get back to what I said several times. I understand that I will not convince the members of the opposition that the service will be cheaper and that their legitimate rights, that they do not trust the minister, will not even hesitate to change anything. But let me say, with regard to legal tariffs, it's unfair to talk about lawyers raising them themselves. Lawyers can't raise it on their own. Only the minister can raise her. He didn't raise it. And he didn't raise it because he made a public promise that he wouldn't do it for as long as the crisis lasted. However, if lawyers accept the recommended tariff, it is as I have said several times: the recommended tariff is a matter of agreement. If the party agrees, it may accept it, if it does not agree, the lawyer cannot refuse it. As far as notary tariffs are concerned, I also said that there is a new notary tariff in the proposal, which will in principle reduce the fees of notaries. These amounts, mentioned earlier for the congregations, are 6, 12, 44 euros, and I can repeat again those numbers that I have already mentioned several times. Let me also say this: if before the novelty, before the amendments, it was considered that up to €1,000 in real estate value is the final service for the user for €1 even more expensive than the old one, now that the amendments have been adopted, this is no longer the case. In these cases, too, the service, if everything else is as good as it is, will be cheaper for 4 Euros than it has been so far. This means that he is indeed holding what I have said several times that the new arrangement for the party in the notary will be cheaper than what he can do today; alone, by going to the notary in any case, as I have already said several times. I think that this has given me answers to most of the concerns, and I hope that I have helped to better understand the content of this law, which, however, is a major step forward and a final step in the long process of informing this largest body in the court, which is called the land book, and on which the update and compliance with the actual situation depends on the legal security of our citizens. This legal certainty is now left to their initiative when they will sign in, whether or not they will, as of tomorrow, there will be a significantly more safeguarded principle that the entries in the land book are made immediately and that the land book actually reflects the actual situation that is properly agreed between citizens with contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? The announcement of time is within the purview of your parliamentary group. Anybody else want to discuss this? Please, for your application. The word is Willy Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u66	When I first discussed this, I announced my support for this law, so I do not know why the Secretary of State understood certain considerations as obvious. I have not seen anything, I have mentioned some concerns about the argument that the Ministry has presented to us in response to some of the concerns, and I have expressed my support and expressed my reasons for the amendments. I think that this is quite right and that even if someone disagrees with what I am saying, they have the same right as I have the right to disagree with certain proposals. What I think is fine, though, is that if not every individual will have the opportunity to make proposals, this probably means eliminating one part of the grey economy, because many have come to the papers just by having a neighbor for a small contribution, say, to them and possibly this is causing those incomplete roles that are being discussed here. That's what I agree with. However, I think we should allow those who know who are registered, who are employed, who pay taxes, etc. to do this activity. Until now, they knew her mostly, and I am sure that imperfect roles did not come mainly from their kind, but if they did, an analysis should be made to do so, which would be presented to us and proposed measures that could change this. So my commitment is only to allow professional economic operators and local communities to do so, except for those who are now allowed by law. However, as far as the local communities are concerned, I asked earlier whether there is – I suppose not, since the Secretary-General has not answered this question – an analysis on the functioning of municipal defences. And if I make a little joke about the point: the defense that's available in the law, which no one uses, is about as much as the possibility that a bum sleeps in a hotel, only that he has these real options.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The word is Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u68	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! Thank you for your word. Let me be allowed, Mr President, first of all to welcome the guests on the balcony. The guests come from the municipal board of LDS in Benedict and are also, in fact, the most deserving of me sitting in the National Assembly today, and I will take the criticism.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u69	Take the criticism. This is not done, although guests are always welcome, but there is no individual greeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thank you and I say goodbye, and now to the Land Book Act. We in the LDS Club have also supported the law in the first and second readings, such as you proposed. However, we cannot in some way support today the amendments tabled by the SDS Group from one simple point of view. Otherwise, I'll just try to say it. Let citizens and citizens not hold back from me that I firmly believe that it is true that everyone in this country is not able to submit a land policy proposal, to draw up the right registration documents, because if that were so far, there would not be as much problems as we have today when we list or classify property in individual categories. Of course, if this was so easy in the land book, this practice could also be done in the health law. We would write in the Health Act that we don't need doctors to be able to operate on our own so that they can repair their own teeth and so on. And what position or what would have happened in the area of health if we had left this behind, as some now want to leave the land book to the volunteers, perhaps not citizens and citizens. Therefore, in the end, I would also like to point out that we have heard in this debate today that everything that is wrong in the judiciary and what is wrong in the prosecution is the responsibility of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Mr President, I thank you for giving an answer on behalf of the Member's Club that this entire time the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has not led the judiciary and has not led the public prosecutor's office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u71	Well, I have to fix you first. This opinion, I have expressed my position as chair of this assembly, not on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, I do not have this authority, nor do I wish to have it. I would like to inform you, of course, all of you, colleagues and colleagues, that visitors and guests at this gallery are always welcome and that there is no need for Members and Members from the bench to especially welcome these guests. This is a custom and custom, and I would ask that we stick to it on other occasions. That's how we got used to it. Good. Anybody else want to discuss this? There's no replica to that. Anybody else want to discuss this? I note that no one wants to discuss the amendments tabled. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided on Tuesday, 23th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 11. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item — Second defence of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Court Taxis under the ordinary procedure The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Let me present a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Fees, which is now under second reading. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Judicial Fees is based on the same concept as the law in force and thus constitutes an upgrade. Most of the proposed amendments are prepared on the basis of the proposals of the courts which are the contractors of this law and which have identified certain shortcomings in their work. The most important innovations under the normative part of the law are the following. In the decision-making process concerning the obligation to pay judicial fees, such as the decision on the application for exemption, deferral or rebate of judicial fees, the decision against payment order under the Law on Court Fees 1 and the like, procedural laws applicable to proceedings for which court fees are also payable will apply mutatis mutandis. This solution has, in practice, been ambiguous and subject of a variety of interpretations. With regard to the procedure for payment of court fees, an obligation will be laid down for a taxable person to provide an appropriate reference on payment or to submit a payment certificate to the court. This will save the Court additional work on the search for fees in individual proceedings. It will be explicitly determined when the fee will be considered paid and the law will also include new provisions on the timeliness of payment of such fees. In the area of such exemptions, a new exemption will be provided for social work centres where the applicants are in the procedures for the regulation of personal conditions and family relations. The new tax will also not have to be paid in administrative disputes concerning the recognition of international protection under the law governing such protection. The Court will be able to postpone the payment of fees to the customer as long as possible until the decision is issued and there will be no time limit on the remuneration of the interest. An assumption will be made that the payment of fees would significantly reduce the means by which a person or his or her family member is provided that the customer receives financial social assistance. This essentially means that such a party will be exempt from payment of judicial fees. A data protection system will be established in the decision-making process on the application for exemption, deferral or payment of interest, thereby preventing interference with data relating to the property status of applicants. Under such a tariff, it is proposed to complete the system of judicial fees and to bring it into line with the amended procedural rules. Hereinafter, let me mention some of the essential novelties of this work. A new fee will be set for the European payment order procedure; for the European small-value disputed procedure; for the procedure for regulating mutual relations in the event of construction beyond the property boundary; for the procedure for the establishment of the property and for the procedure for the establishment of the property belonging to the building and for certain charges for the infringement procedure. Special restrictions will also be imposed, for most bankruptcy fees up to a maximum of EUR 2 000, on average charges for the compulsory settlement procedure up to a maximum of EUR 2 000, on certification fees up to a maximum of EUR 50 and 25 and on legal aid fees up to a maximum of EUR 2 000. The fee for reporting claims in insolvency proceedings and the fee for the procedure for the application for discharge of liabilities in personal bankruptcy shall be waived. In doing so, we want to facilitate the situation of those involved in such procedures. The fees for the land-booking procedure will be substantially amended. The fee for the procedure for the application for the registration of property rights as the most up-to-date of them will, on a new basis, be based on a special scale according to the value of the property in which the book is required and will on average be 35% lower than the current fee. The reduction in this fee is linked to a reduction in the court's operating costs resulting from the introduction of the news discussed under the previous item in the amendment to the Land Book Act. These are the essential amendments and additions proposed by this bill. Of course, I suggest to the Members that you support the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you very much. This law was discussed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice at its 24th meeting on 4 November this year. The government is a proponent. At the request of the Group of Members and Members, the National Assembly shall be 28. 9. 2010 on the proposal for a law has already held a general discussion and concluded that the law is suitable for further consideration. The materials we had were: a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Council of Justice, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, an amendment to the opinion and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Order of 27. Ten. 2010 Amendments of coalition parliamentary groups were tabled for consideration in the home labour body. The proposaler – i.e. the Government and on behalf of the Secretary of State, Mr Škrlec – explained the content in a similar way, so he would not repeat it. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Mrs Marta Briška, said that the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups largely follow the comments made in their written opinion and improve the legal text and contribute to greater legal certainty. It further presented its comments on Articles 12, 28 and 29 and its comments on the amendment to Article 43, which provides for the implementation of the Act on 1 January 2011. Such an implementation is not the most appropriate, since the conclusion of the legislative procedure cannot be accurately foreseen, taking into account, of course, the possibility of veto and referendum, according to her words. The provision should also be considered in terms of the relationship of this proposal to the law on amendments and additions to the Land Book Act. The Committee also received an opinion from the Commission of the State Council. That's the law he's supporting. The Committee also took note of the written opinion of the Council of Justice, which concludes that the Council of Justice does not fully support the proposal. The Council of Justice also notes in its opinion that the proposal is not based on transitional expert analyses and changes and complicates the already lost system, but at the same time the proposed solutions are not well thought out. In the discussion on individual articles, support was expressed for the amendment to Article 37, which reduces the court fee in the proposal for the incorporation of property rights. It is important to ensure, by reducing taxes in the land-book procedure in connection with the solutions in the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Land Book Act, that the party does not have more costs than it has had so far when submitting a land-book proposal. The Committee adopted amendments to Articles 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 16, 17, 28, 33, 37, 42 and 43. The Committee then voted on all articles of the law, including the amendments. The integral text of the law is an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Since the meeting held its first reading of the bill at its 20th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place on Tuesday, 23. 11. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item on the draft resolution on amendments to the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2008-2011 The draft resolution was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the motion for a resolution, I should give the floor to the representative of the Government. I was just informed that he was on his way — three minutes. I've decided to give this time, because then the Minister doesn't have a word in the debate. So we wait — without interruption. I see there are no objections. These three minutes of exceptional lady, so we proceed at 11.54.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u76	Colleagues and colleagues, I don't think we're gonna have to wait three minutes. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Majdi Shirca, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Apologize for these minutes of delay: the fact is that today is the day of general libraries and that we marked this day at the Ministry of Culture also with a donation to those libraries that live in areas where unemployment is greater than it would have been. With today's update of the National Programme for Culture, I can say that this supplement will happen under a slogan that could be said "no culture without architecture". In this year's report on the implementation of the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2008-2011, in its 2009 report, the Government proposed that the law give it the option to supplement the existing resolution. This was the first such supplement since the Slovenian culture had a national programme. It happened for a reason, because there is no great disadvantage in the National Programme for the Culture of Architecture and Architecture. With this addition we restore the validity of architecture and give weight to the space that architecture largely defines, upgrades and, of course, designs. The space in which we live and create is of exceptional importance for Slovenia's national and cultural identity, in fact similar to that of the Slovenian language. Undoubtedly, concern about the culture of the design and maintenance of settlements, urban spaces and landscapes is crucial for the healthy development of society. Because of the various development needs and ambitions and the impact of capital, our space is particularly vulnerable. With the objectives and measures outlined in the National Programme for Culture, we want to highlight architecture, the cultural dimension and the quality of our living space. Architecture, landscape architecture and spatial arrangements will increase their social responsibility as they enter the culture field. With detailed measures aimed at raising awareness, as well as at educating the general public about the space that we create, it is also a space that shapes us. That's what we want to stress. Let me say that the Ministry of Culture made an introductory step this year towards a different perception of architecture and planning by raising the Architecture Museum in Ljubljana to the national level. And even if it is a supplement given just before the expiry of the resolution of the National Programme for Culture, let me say that the area of architecture and landscape architecture will also be placed in a new resolution on the national programme for culture, which we are preparing for the Ministry of Culture, and we want to present to the public debate soon. Chapters as defined by this Supplement, which I believe you will accept and also confirm, at least on the Committee on Culture, have been expressed in this way by Members and Members. By complementing and shaping the objectives and measures as defined in this Supplement, we believe that we will also maintain in the next national programme for culture after 2011 within the areas concerned and covering a wider area of culture, including architecture and landscape architecture, or all those broad layers that touch the creation of space. I repeat, this space is, especially in recent times, when it is questioned not only by greenery within our frameworks, but also in the context of new and modern receptions, very important, certainly also for society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The motion for a resolution was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Magi. Majdi Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The draft resolution on amendments and updates to the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2008-2011 was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth at its 22nd meeting on 4 November this year. The representative of the motioners, Minister Majda Širc, gave an introductory explanation to the motion for a resolution. She said that through inclusion in the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2008-2011, architecture would be supported as an activity of the cultural design of physical and social functional space and the whole of cultural and artistic activities would be rounded up. She felt that the architecture would obtain social recognition with its placement, receive additional support and increase social responsibility. The Legislative and Legal Service examined the motion for a resolution in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and had no comments from a legislative and technical point of view. In its opinion, the Commission of the Council of State for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported the resolution and considered that inter-sectoral cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Space is essential in order to link economic development with the management of the immovable heritage. An oral opinion was presented by Anton Peršak at the Committee meeting. The Committee considered the text in accordance with Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure and held a debate and a vote on the individual parts of the motion for a resolution. In the course of the discussion, some members of the Committee felt that the National Programme for Culture should not change frequently because it is losing its strategic effect and others have supported its amendment when it comes to transparent changes adopted under the same procedure as a umbrella act. Some were also interested in the new role of the Public Institute of the Museum of Architecture and Design. The Minister explained that the museum is developing into a central national architectural centre and a key institution for architecture in Slovenia. The museum will bring together creators, users and related institutions in the field of architecture and design with exhibition, educational, research, publishing and documentation activities. The government has already adopted the creation act of the new Museum for Architecture and Design and the resources for its operation will be provided in the budget. During the discussion, the Committee also expressed concern about the protection of marine culture in Slovenia. He suggested that the national programme for culture in the future could also be complemented by this segment. However, the majority opinion of the debaters is that it is right that architecture is established as a separate chapter in the national programme for culture. After the discussion on the individual chapters of the motion for a resolution, the Committee voted in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure on all the chapters of the motion for a resolution and adopted them. Given that the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth has not adopted any amendments as a parent body to the motion for a resolution amending and supplementing the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2008-2011, the Committee notes that a proposal for a resolution is being discussed and voted on at the meeting of the National Assembly in the proposed text, which is published on the website of the National Assembly, in the Rapporteur of 2 September 2010, or in the computer network of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you, Madam Chairman of the Committee. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Jakob Presječnik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, we are aware of the importance that culture has or has in the past to preserve the Slovenian people, and we are convinced that the preservation of culture, people and their cultural heritage must be one of the most important priorities of our country. This is the only way to preserve our national and cultural identity. The spatial culture, which includes architecture, landscape architecture, urbanism and industrial and graphic design, must also be given its place in the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture, so in the Slovenian People's Party we welcome the proposal to amend the resolution. We believe that architecture needs to be given a place that deserves it in national terms, so we also support the programme and content transformation of the architectural museum into a public institute of the Museum of Architecture and Design, which becomes a national cultural centre with this novel and will connect both the professional and lay public with its activities and other users in the field of architecture and design. In the Slovenian People's Party we are aware of the greatness of our greatest architect Jožet Plečnik and the importance of his work for the culture of the Slovenian people, but it is necessary to protect the architectural heritage in the entire country, not just part of some architects. We also welcome the orientation of the resolution on the scholarship of young creators working in the area of so-called spatial culture, as prospective young creators need to be further motivated and given financial or other assistance with appropriate incentives. Investing in young architects and urbanists is after all investing in the future of the space in which we live and operate, and consequently also in the future of the culture of the Slovenian people. The provision of the amendment to the resolution concerning the inclusion of urban solutions in all sectors of government policy, including agricultural land, should also be highlighted. We have often witnessed suspicious exploitation of the highest quality agricultural land and changes in its destination, which can also increase the price of land by more than 10 times. This is followed by the interests of capital that overwhelm the interests of other participants, including any architect or other expert, when it closes one eye. The interests of capital are also often turned on by the architectural heritage, often directly affecting the collapse of individual buildings and the extinction of old city nuclei. However, if decaying buildings are accidentally being rebuilt, they are often restored with inappropriate, unquality materials. We hope that this will at least be limited by the proposed amendments, if it does not fully address it. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we assess that the proposed solutions in the motion for a resolution on amendments and additions to the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2008-2011 are good and also necessary. All we want is for these solutions, especially as regards the interference of capital with the architecture, to be implemented in reality. Therefore, we will also support the proposed amendments to the resolution in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by the mag. Your Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With the resolution, the National Culture Programme 2008-2011 announced priorities, objectives and measures for this period to ensure good conditions for the sustainable and integrated existence of the already achieved and further development of Slovenian culture. The vitality of all cultural elements and visions and their application depend on the recognition of domestic cultural characteristics and their place in a wide range of European and global cultural diversity. In our Group of Members, we believe that the national programme for culture has an important role to play in this regard, as well as that the guidelines must be put in place so that the area is sufficiently flexible and responsive to changing needs and trends. In our parliamentary group, we understand culture as a whole, which is thus considered a statement of the identity of the Slovenian people. The proposed amendments to the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture seek to increase the integration or more comprehensive treatment of architecture and landscape than one of the equivalent holders of cultural heritage, which gives Slovenian space a distinctive identity. We agree that this area is being rounded up throughout cultural and artistic activities in close connection with placement in all segments of social life. In particular, it is important that architecture also acts as a technical-construction activity and development-economic activity. The proposed amendment to the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture complements the role of architecture and devotes itself to greater concern, which is already being implemented in the Ministry of Culture itself. Our Group of Members supports the proposed supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! With the motion for a resolution on amendments and additions to the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture, we want to include and define the importance of architecture. We also agree with the proposal in the Slovenian National Party Group. As we can see, there is an overall political consensus on this. We probably all agree that architecture and the creation of space are an important part of national culture and will also have to be given sufficient attention to this topic. The protection of architecture heritage in Slovenia exists and is also being implemented, but in the past the attitude towards this area has also been inappropriate and unacceptable in many local areas throughout Slovenia and the consequences are therefore noticeable in some environments. Architectural cultural heritage as well as the Slovenian landscape themselves certainly represent and mark our identity. Therefore, the care to preserve and maintain such an inheritance is our duty, perhaps not only through resolutions and programmes, but also legally incorporated into sustainable development policy. More attention and energy should be focused on raising awareness, education for the general public. It would not harm the revision of educational programmes for primary and secondary schools and the appropriate inclusion of this area in universal education at the basic level. This is only one of the proposals submitted by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. However, in processing this, we have also come to the conclusion, for the Slovenian national identity of an important issue, that such areas should also be defined and more strictly defined or protected. So much for the Ministry's representative. However, appropriate conditions should also be provided for the implementation of effective protection, reconstruction, restoration of immovable cultural heritage, as well as the implementation of adequate spatial planning in a broader sense. Attention will also need to be paid to greater, better visibility of Slovenian architecture and to ensure the proper implementation of urban activities into the environment, as this area has in the past caused considerable damage to Slovenian architecture and landscape cultural heritage. Here, we think first of all of the same, non-systematic and diverse in local environments of inappropriate, amateur and non-professional interference with the environment, urban centres and urban plans of many local communities. In the future, we propose more control and control, including through legally binding conditions and requirements by state authorities, when such harmful urban interventions occur and occur in local environments. Unfortunately, we must acknowledge the sad fact that in the past we have destroyed and neglected many areas and architecture of many city centres. As an example, I can mention the city center of Murska Sobota, where in the socrealistic times they destroyed and demolished almost the entire city centre, which is a unique example of Pannonian landscape, urbanism, also the identity of Premur traditional architecture and culture in general, but instead a similar, non-systemic, without every order "shooted" across the space a bunch of gambling socio-realistic apartment blocks and other non-aesthetic buildings without content and a cultural soul. Unfortunately, such damage is simply no longer possible to repair and it is even worse that such sad cases in Slovenia are critical; and from Primorska and Gorenjska to Štajerska, because each such typical area represents an important and identifiable national identity of Slovenk and Slovenes. Today, unfortunately, we can see that every time a new local authority has its own idea of urban planning, and many times the mayor thinks that he is a top architect, aesthetic, urbanist expert and an expert in Slovenian cultural heritage, that I am not even talking about capital real estate actors and factors that are only interested in money, profit and personal benefits, but they do not find it difficult to convince or even reward any mayor and local authorities to achieve their profitable business. Then one of us can be surprised when we cross the border, for example in close Austria, and admire the wonderfully maintained, restored and legally protected urban centres, which are already brightening up the national identity and cultural heritage. But when we return to our city, every 100 meters we can admire all the average of the store, kiosks, kebabs and similar untasteful, non-aesthetic facilities, which do not have anything to do with the preservation of Slovenia's national identity. I hope that we are at least as far as this unified opinion is concerned in the National Assembly. As I mentioned in the introduction, in the Slovenian National Party we expect the current executive branch, the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of the Environment and Space to prepare appropriate legislative proposals, to remedy the existing situation and to ensure the achievement of the content and objectives set out in the National Programme for Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Madam Minister for Culture, fellow Members, fellow Members! The motion for a resolution amending and supplementing the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2008-2011 puts a new chapter on Architecture and Landscape as a cultural value in the resolution. The word architecture is understood in this resolution as a roofing term that combines both spatial planning and creation from the field of architecture, landscape architecture and urbanism. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that it is high time to ask ourselves and answer the question of how to take advantage of comparative advantages in Slovenia, how to enrich Europe from a spatial point of view. What, or what, will Slovenia consider to be special in Europe? We should set up a clear strategy for creating opportunities in all areas that contribute in one way or another to the design, management and preservation of space. The views on space can be very different, including conflict. There is a lot of interest in regulating and intervention into space, and we can argue that at all levels of spatial planning, capital is pressured and space is always limited or valuable in one way or another. It is therefore necessary to think about the potentials of space and also to develop its own spatial identity. A new spatial reality is emerging in Slovenia, through which our identity is also well revealed. For example, a dispersed unit building that has the cruelest impact on the idyllic space is the most desirable form of living in our country. Thus it becomes part of a commercialised landscape that forms the globalisation processes of urbanisation, new centres that devour space without being placed in it with any deeper planning expertise on where they are placed, how they can fit into their new function already existing. Today these changes happen very quickly and if, for example, you drive from Ljubljana to Celje, as landscape architects have determined and warned us, what we would like to show Europe and the world is very little. This part is very scatteredly populated, very much the same, and the uses have in some ways been unified. It's made of a variety of things. It's just a relief basis. In fact, we can see a similar picture everywhere in Slovenia. Despite that territory, Slovenia still has a wealth of diverse patterns of settlement of landscape forms and architecture. The immovable cultural heritage with settlements, buildings, gardens, parks and landscapes is such an irreplaceable system that gives Slovenian space significant visibility. Finally, the place in which we live and create, for the national and cultural identity of Slovenia, we also get to know this more and more people of equal importance than the Slovenian language. Caring for a culture of settlement and landscape and architecture is therefore essential for the healthy development of society. Due to this, we will be pleased to support this resolution, which is aimed at strengthening the quality of architecture and facilities and at modern and coherent building on the identity of the space in Slovenia, and at promoting awareness and education of the general public and establishing common understandable criteria for the quality of architecture, landscape architecture and spatial arrangements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of National Communities will be presented by Dr Laszlo Göncz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! We support the motion for a resolution on amendments and additions to the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2008-2011 because architecture and landscape as special values deserve this particular attention. Otherwise, we generally agree with the warning that the text of the resolution should not change frequently, but in this case it is a justifiable addition. In addition, we support the content upgrade of the Architecture Museum of Ljubljana to the public institute of the Museum of Architecture and Design, but we note the expectation that the upgrade should not only involve centralisation of the coordination of this important activity, but in particular greater expertise, which is also indicated, as well as the ability to express the specificity of the expression of individual architectural areas in Slovenia. Undoubtedly, the marine architecture already mentioned several times, as well as Pannonian, mountain architecture, are also some important elements of this whole. In short, we believe that maintaining this specificity must become an important task for this new or transformed public institution. Finally, let me express my support for the resolution, which is why we will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Samo Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The resolution on the National Programme for Culture is a fundamental document of cultural policy to ensure public interest in this area. At the declaration level, it covers the substantive arguments for the preparation of an annual budget in the direction of the competent minister and the government, sets priorities for investment in public cultural infrastructure, which are also based on the so-called cultural euro law, and, last but not least, offers an opportunity for an annual debate on the state of this constitutional element of national identity in our country. The resolution on the National Programme for Culture is a living document to hold an annual debate on the working body, allowing a resounding critical assessment of past achievements. In 2009, however, for the first time, the committee debate encouraged the adoption of a decision proposing to the competent ministry to supplement the resolution with the field of architecture. This gives more importance to the basic cultural document, while at the same time expressing support to all institutions and individuals who create in the fields of architecture, landscape architecture and urbanism. The supplement also provides a good basis for the preparation of a new national programme for culture. The architecture in Slovenia is mute, but also a prominent witness of the social life of the past centuries. The State is trying to provide adequate protection to the best of its ability, so most important creations are protected as a monument of national importance. This ensures its continued existence and allows access to large numbers, regardless of whether the monument is State or private. In doing so, particular emphasis should be placed on the protection of Plečnik's opus in Ljubljana, which took place in the previous year. The decision of the Ministry of Culture is also understood as a reflection in the direction of the registration of Jožet Plečnik's heritage on the list of the world heritage of Unesca. In addition, it will have positive effects on the promotion of the capital and the state at all. The proposal for amendments and the completion of the resolution, in addition to the declaratory emphasis on architecture, also defines the newly established Museum of Architecture and Design as the central architectural centre in our country. The transformation of the former municipal museum sparked a great turnout in public. However, long-standing efforts have been made by employees there to move under the auspices of the State. In the Group of Social Democrats we support the transfer of constitutional rights from the municipalities to the country, while at the same time we expect the exemplary participation of both in the protection of Plečnik's house and the previous transfer of Plečnik's collection into the framework of the Museum of Architecture and Design. Finally, I would like to point out that, in the last term, we have also, with the amendment to the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2008-2011, which has unfortunately not been adopted, repeatedly pointed out the need to provide public funds for artistic equipment for the new construction of buildings or the renovation of buildings that have the status of cultural monuments. We hope that our initiative will be implemented in the future in the form of a law or other form, as announced by Minister of Culture Majda Širca during the debate. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the motion for a resolution on amendments and additions to the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2008-2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Alexander Zorn will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u93	Your Honor! The motion for a resolution on amendments and additions to the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2008-2011 will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party, as we did by the Committee on Culture. The proposal incorporates the word and concept of architecture and landscape by supporting both as cultural activities; creating a physical space with an artistic dimension. This seems appropriate to us, and there is no way to have any principled comments on this. But there are still some concerns. First time. The National Programme for Culture is a strategic programme; it is the backbone of cultural development; it is the direction that must hold for a number of years; at least ten, or it will become an act that can be modified, supplemented and budgeted every year. In view of the fact that we have experienced three budget corrections, I think that there will be at least a very uncertain future in the first year of this programme and there will be no longer a strategic programme. The other thing about it. The proposal to include public architectural and urban competitions in the government policy sector – this declares that it means that the Government will decide on the calls as the Government as a whole – also raises the issue that we discussed before the day – a total sale of the castles to which we are witnessing. This seems to us in complete dissimilar to this high cultural text, which mentions architecture and landscape as a permanent value and dimension of Slovenia. And then there's a few little things. The introduction of work scholarships for architects in the field of architecture and landscape architecture should have no financial implications for public funds or for the budget. I don't know if these scholarships are going to be so stingy or if there won't be any consequences. I wonder very similarly what will happen to the Ljubljana Architectural Museum, which will turn into the Museum of Architecture and Design, which is also in place, but will there also be any financial implications and how will these really be shown? Will funds for its operation be provided in the State budget? Are they gone now? How's that gonna work? However, it may also be flawed that, in addition to the above, architecture and landscape are called, we do not have in the national programme, and we could also open up, at the same time, the protection of the maritime cultural heritage in Slovenia. And one last time. Protection of Plečnik's architectural heritage and protection of Plečnik's markets and garage under the market. The Ministry of Culture, by decree on the termination of the Law on the Temporary Announcement of Plečnik's Markets in Ljubljana as a cultural monument of State importance, disproportionately intervened in that cultural monument. And this also seems to be inconsistent with the big declarations. Therefore, let me conclude that the principles are of course very good and that the practice of government policy is often the opposite of them, and this practice will be dedicated in the future to a number of ugly hours, and we will, of course, agree with the principles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! When adopting the report on the implementation of the National Programme for Culture 2008-2011 for 2008, members and members of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth of the Ministry of Culture, we decided to include in the adopted national programme the areas of architecture and planned evaluation and the protection of architectural works at the national level. We are therefore now adopting this amendment, which follows fully the conclusions of the 2009 Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth. Not to repeat the arguments of the predecessors, let me mention only that the national programme for culture, currently in force, merely mentions the word architecture, does not define policies or guidelines in relation to architectural works or architecture and architecture, nor does it provide for the protection of this area. That is why these changes fill the gaps in the national programme for culture, and we understand architecture and the creation of space from now on as part of cultural activities. In the Parliamentary Group, really - we welcome the changes in the new policy and we will support a rich national programme with architecture. We are convinced that by doing so we acquire not only architecture, but the whole culture. However, we would like everyone involved to know and be able to read the national cultural programme and the rest of the sectoral legislation as they are, but not just tendingly. Then it will probably be easier to agree on solutions in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u96	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body in the motion for a resolution, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly cannot be tabled. The decision on the motion for a resolution will be held on Tuesday 23 November in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the time of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a law on amendments to and additions to the Act on Working Time and Compulsory Accountability of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To complement the explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Dr Igor Jakomin, State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! The Confederation of New Unions of Slovenia – Independence has sent a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of Article 2(2) and Article 3(3) of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport. The Constitutional Court has found that the provisions of the law are inconsistent with the Constitution because all passenger line transports are subject to the same rules as regards working time and availability time. Such a solution was adopted on the basis of the then agreement between the social partners and this proposal specifically regulates the area of working time, breaks and availability for passenger transport in line transport of less than 50 kilometres. Thus, the law governing working relationships will apply to these holidays. As a result, part-time breaks for these transports will be paid and the time available and working time will be paid in accordance with the current collective agreement. Evaluation of working time and availability time is in law with regard to the protection of drivers. This is a specific category of workers who may have an impact on road safety by their behaviour. However, in the other amended articles only minor amendments to the laws relating to European regulations shall be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Janko Webr.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. The Transport Committee considered the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recording Equipment in Road Transport at its 13th meeting, on 3 November 2010, and held a second hearing. The law was sent by the Government to the National Assembly with a proposal to deal with it following a reduced procedure, since it was less difficult to amend and supplement the law with regard to the Constitutional Court’s decision, and also in the introduction of the bill’s proposal, that, according to a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, the draft law specifically regulates the area of breaks and the time available for the carriage of passengers by line transport less than 50 kilometres. As a result, these holidays will be subject to the law governing working relationships, which will result in a part-time break for these transports and thus be adequately paid. However, working time and availability time will be paid in accordance with the current collective agreement. Since this is a specific category of workers, the proposed law further regulates the aspect of the protection of drivers, since these drivers have an impact on road safety by their behaviour. The law also dealt with the Legislative and Legal Service and specifically drew attention to a comment on the provision of the third paragraph of the new Article 2b for which no amendment had been proposed. The comment concerns the principle problem of an approach which "tends" to the applicable collective contract for road passenger transport, and also deals with situations where the corrective contract would not settle these issues or would not have been concluded at all. In the very debate on the law is the Confederation of New Unions of Slovenia by letter 28. Ten. 2010 warned some Members who then also discussed this at a meeting of the Committee that the amendment tabled did not provide a solution to fully comply with the decision of the Constitutional Court. This is an amendment to Article 2. The Committee adopted both amendments to the Social Democrats' parliamentary groups, to Res, to DeSUS and to the LDS. He also voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. The amended bill is also before you today at a meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for the amendment to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on the recording of equipment in road transport. The main objective of amendments and additions is to adopt such rules on passenger transport in line transport up to 50 kilometres in order to satisfy the Constitutional Court's decision. As a result of the Constitutional Court’s decision, the new Article 2b of the amendment lays down specific rules applicable to the carriage of passengers in line transport of less than 50 kilometres. These transports shall be subject to the provisions of Regulation 561/2006/EC, the AETR and this Act, with the exception of holidays and weekly rest. Specific rules are laid down for these two categories. Thus, the law governing working relationships applies to holidays and weekly holidays. With regard to breaks, it is also possible to replace the rest of the journey with more than ten-minute breaks for drivers carrying out carriages on lines less than 50 kilometres. This part of the provision is now governed by this bill because it was previously regulated only by a collective agreement. The bill also regulates the evaluation of working time and availability times in line transports less than 50 kilometres. It shall be ensured by limited arrangements that, in the event of the termination of the collective agreement, workers shall not be deprived of the right to payment under the previous evaluation. Such an interruption of workers' rights would take place if the social partners failed to agree on a new collective agreement if the collective agreement was terminated. This proposal therefore provides for a solution to assess the working time and time available under the provisions of the current collective agreement. However, in the event that the collective agreement in force for road and passenger transport does not regulate those valuations or where the collective contract for road passenger transport is not concluded, the provisions of the last collective contract for road passenger transport governed by those valuations shall apply. Since the Constitutional Court’s decision found that the non-compliance of Article 2a of the Law with the Constitution also affects the current working time arrangements for these workers, the definition of the driver’s working time in line transport of less than 50 kilometres is further defined in point 11 of the newly defined definition. Thus, limited working time is defined as the time from the beginning to the end of work when driving staff are in the workplace and perform their tasks and activities. We will, of course, support him in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek will speak on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! With the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recorded Equipment in Road Transport, it is in fact less difficult to amend and supplement the law with regard to the Constitutional Court decision. As already mentioned by the predecessors, it is now just a matter of repeating the facts and reasons for adopting such complementary amendments to the law; namely, that the Confederation of New Trade Unions of Slovenia - Independence has sent this requirement to assess the constitutionality of Article 4(2) (a) and certain other paragraphs of Article 3 of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport. As we know, the Constitutional Court has therefore found that these certain provisions of the law are not in accordance with the Constitution, and this matter has therefore to be settled. This proposal therefore specifically regulates the area of working time, breaks and time available for the transport of passengers in line transport of up to 50 kilometres. With regard to breaks and working hours, these problems have been resolved. It is therefore a specific category of workers and is also regulated by law in terms of the protection of drivers. For the other amended articles minor corrections have been made. In the last amendment to the law, it was therefore necessary to regulate this area of passenger line transport up to 50 kilometres due to the requirements of Article 15 of the Regulation. The matter has been regulated in the provisions of these Articles and we therefore support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions in the Slovenian National Party. There's really nothing else to say here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Magajna is expected to present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. He's not here. Mr Mirko Brulc will present the views of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you for your word. A mandatory recording of the driver’s activity was introduced in the European Community in 1969 and a Council Regulation on the harmonisation of certain social legislation on road transport was adopted on 25 March of that year. The Council Regulation introduced a tachograph, a mechanical device that acts by recording the driver’s activities on paper discs. The tachographs were originally designed with the idea that the driver was ready to control himself, so they were not protected from falsifying the data. There were frauds which made the situation of carriers that respected the rules worse. As a result, a new generation of digital tachographs was introduced on 1 May 2006 to enable a higher safety level and address these deficiencies. With regard to the introduction of digital tachographs in the Republic of Slovenia, a special national law has been adopted, namely the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on Recording Equipment in Road Transport. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia ruled that Articles 2 and 3 of the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment on road transport are incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. We therefore have before us a law which, according to a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, specifically regulates the area of breaks and availability for passenger transport in line transport of less than 50 kilometres. At the same time, it is also provided that for drivers carrying out transport on lines less than 50 kilometres, the rest of the journey may be replaced by at least ten minutes’ rest. The new law therefore imposes rules on passenger transport in line transport up to 50 kilometres in such a way that it is in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court. We will support the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Group will be presented by Mr Branko Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice hello to you all! We will not support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport. By decision of the Constitutional Court No. 265/07-16 was found to be inconsistent with the law. The proposal does not eliminate unconstitutionality, but continues. The collective contract shall contain provisions laying down the payment for a period of availability which by definition is not working time. The fundamental principle of the Labour Relations Act requires the employer to pay 100 % to the worker for any work or work when it is available to the employer. The target group of workers for which the law in question was adopted in 2007 are mobile road transport workers carrying out long-term passenger and goods transport. The problem arises for mobile workers who carry passengers in line transport and are less than 50 kilometres away. If we simplify the illustration, these are the drivers who actually drive on a particular line and turn without having to have an interface between turning around so much time to go to lunch. The proposer of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by means of that proposal, did not show any reasonable or real reasons for the different treatment of mobile workers at longer and shorter distances. This was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. If this area is properly regulated for all other workers in the Republic of Slovenia, then mobile workers on regular passenger transport of less than 50 kilometres can be no exception or second-class topic when it comes to finding solutions to inequalities before the law. On the basis of these reasons, we will vote against the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the reduced procedure and the adoption of amendments to the law, as it is a matter of adapting and amending the law in accordance with the Constitutional Decision and only for minor additions and amendments to the law. We have heard the Ministry's assurance that the amended bill is now better than the initial proposal in the light of union concerns and warnings from the Legal Service of the National Assembly. Adjustments and arrangements regarding breaks and availability times for workers in passenger transport in line transport of less than 50 kilometres, as well as for all others, must, however, be in accordance with the already applicable collective agreement and other labour law and should not diminish their rights. With regard to the doubts expressed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, or to what extent the amendment follows the decision of the Constitutional Court, we were informed on the Committee that the proposer, in cooperation with that service, has drafted amendments, with regard to the second and third paragraphs of Article 2b of the amendment of the Law, taking the view that, in terms of the protection of rights, it is important to transpose the content of the last applicable collective agreement into law in an unaltered form. But there are still two unions. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the law because we believe that the amendment of the law does not reduce the right of drivers who carry passengers in line transports less than 50 kilometres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be held on Tuesday 23 November 2010 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law on the consent and growth of the Republic of Slovenia to the obligations of Dars, D.D., from credits and issued debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia amounting to EUR 297,811 million, the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Right now, there's no one from the Ministry who can explain the bill. Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Franz Križanič and within the Ministry of Transport David Polutnik, mag. Miranda Count Ferjančič and Matthew the Priest. There's nobody here. Do we agree to wait five minutes because they're supposed to be on their way? [[Ad in the background.]] You don't have the authority, I'm sorry. Mr. Chairman of the Committee, are you prepared to clarify the Committee's position? Here you go, Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you for saying that again. At its 13th meeting, on 3 November 2010, the Transport Committee held a second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars d. d., from credits and debt securities issued for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, amounting to EUR 297,811 million. At the request of the Group of Members and Members pursuant to Article 122(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was also addressed at the general hearing of the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. At that time, the National Assembly adopted a conclusion that the proposal for a law was suitable for further consideration. Thus, in our second reading on the Committee, we also listened to the additional explanation given by the representative of the proposer. He pointed out that this was the last law on the State's consent and guarantee for certain obligations that Dars would assume in connection with the construction and renewal of the motorway, since Dars would build and rebuild for his account without State guarantees after the adoption of the new Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposed debt amounting to EUR 297,811 million is the maximum amount that Dars can charge with the State guarantee to finance the individual investments set out in the national highway construction programme and the annual highway development and renewal plan for 2010. The financial implications would only be affected by the State budget in the event of a cashing under the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for those loans or debt securities issued. The representative of the Government also stressed at the Committee's meeting that Dars would not be in charge of the total value of the investment, which would otherwise amount to EUR 795,526 million. In addition, funds are provided in part from their own resources. The law was also reviewed by the Legislative and Legal Service and examined it in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and in terms of legislative technical regulations. It reiterated its comment on Article 1, paragraph 1, on the uncertainty of the word relationship in the fifth and sixth indents, which defines the comparable interest rate and comparable conditions of comparable loans. The representative of the Ministry of Finance then replied and explained that the said word link was used in many cases, especially in the law on guarantees for Dars, because the loans leased by Dars under these laws are much longer than they normally are in business practice. So it's 20, 25, or even 35 years. As the situation in the financial markets is rapidly changing, it is very difficult to define the ceiling of the interest rate. With a possible interest rate limit, Dars would not be in a position to be in debt or the law should be amended. However, it is clear that the interest rate must nevertheless be defined in some way by being comparable at a certain point to the interest rate of comparable loans to the State guarantee. During the second reading, the Committee held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. The Committee adopted both amendments to the SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS parliamentary groups and, after discussion on the individual articles, voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. So today, before you at the meeting of the National Assembly, a proposal for a law on the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, which can be adopted by the National Assembly, to the extent that it so decides, has been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Since the Assembly held its first reading of the bill at its 20th meeting, it is not possible to present the parliamentary positions of the groups today. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. We will vote on the bill on Tuesday, 23 November, as part of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. At the end of the day, this is a second defence proposal for the Automobile Society Act in the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law has been tabled by the Government for further explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Igor Jakomin, State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport. Here you go, Dr. Jakomin!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The proposal for a new company law for motorways in the Republic of Slovenia brings some innovations that will contribute to the burden of public finances in the area of highways and fast roads and transfer this funding to the private sector. Construction of motorways and fast roads will take place within the framework of the concessional relationship. A concession will be granted for each section. Dars or another concessionaire will build, restore, manage and maintain fully on his own account after the new highway. The financial obligation of the State exists only in spatial planning, placement and land acquisition. At the same time, through development documents, the country maintains the strategic development of the motorway network. The National Assembly will establish sections by means of a national programme, which will be built including the final deadlines for their completion. The government will report annually to the National Assembly on the implementation of the national programme, which will also show compliance with the deadlines set. Dars will also operate the motorway on his own account as a concessionaire on the basis of building rights. The Republic of Slovenia shall remain the owner of all the land on which the motorways are run. Dars' building rights are limited to a period of 50 years. However, after the expiry of this period, the motorways must be returned to the country free of charge and in a prescribed condition of quality. During the duration of the building right, Dars motorways must not burden or alienate them, so that their ownership cannot in any case be changed. Dars, as well as other concessionaires, will have to take full account of the rules adopted by the State, ensuring the quality of infrastructure and, consequently, the flow of transport and transport security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Jank Webr, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a company law for motorways in the Republic of Slovenia was also considered by the Transport Committee at its 13th meeting on 3 November. This law has also been requested for general discussion, so that the National Assembly has also adopted in this law that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. In an introductory explanation on the Committee, the representative of the applicant said that two essential novelties were introduced by the law: the establishment of a concessional relationship in the area of the construction of motorways and the establishment of a building right for the benefit of the company for motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. Dars or another concessionaire will from now on build, restore, manage and maintain the motorway fully on his own account. Public funds for this purpose will therefore no longer be used. However, the financial obligation of the State remains only in spatial planning to place routes in space and to acquire land for motorways. For the construction of an individual motorway section, the Republic of Slovenia shall conclude a concession contract, the duration of which shall be limited for a maximum period of 50 years. After this period, Dars must take the motorways back to the country free of charge and, of course, in the prescribed state of quality. The general objective of the bill is therefore to relieve public finances in the area of highway construction and to provide private funding to the private sector for the construction of motorways. At the same time, the country will, through development documents, maintain the strategic development of the motorway network by setting new sections and deadlines within which it will have to be placed on the market. The Legislative and Legal Service has also reviewed the law and examined it in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system. It noted that the derogation from the system regime constitutes solutions relating to building rights. In fact, the public roads covered by the proposed law are in accordance with the Public Roads Act owned by the Republic of Slovenia, both public and non-legal. Nor can property rights be acquired by possession or other real rights. However, this solution is also the subject of the Roads Act, which, of course, will also address this issue. The Council of State also supports the proposal of the law, so that the amendments tabled by the SD, Zares, DeSUS, LDS MPs were discussed on the committee. The Committee adopted all the amendments and adopted its amendments to Article 8 and Article 12 on the basis of the debate at the meeting, by voting on all articles of the bill together after the discussion, and the Committee has also adopted them, and today the updated text is also on the agenda of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Since the meeting held its first reading of the bill at its 20th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the draft law, which we will vote on on Tuesday 23 November in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments to the transport laws in road transport. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. The same group proposed that the National Assembly should hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I therefore give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Dr Petr Verlic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u117	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Honourable Representative of the Government, colleague and fellow Member and Members! However, employed schoolchildren, students, students, pensioners and all those who do not have cars must be brought to work, to school, to college, to a store or to a doctor, without regard to the administrative boundaries between municipalities and the country. They don't care that we still don't have any provinces. They also do not care about the system legislation which has protected bus carriers with concessions to the extent that carriers direct, where and how urban transport lines will take place, and not vice versa, so that the state and local communities have key levers to do so. Regrettably, in its opinion on this proposal, the Government also notes that, due to existing legislation, nothing can be changed in this area. But it's not like that. In order to be able to do something immediately, we see a proposal for a law that we have drawn up in our Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, and for which we propose that you support it today. Why? Because, for the first time, we are proposing an equalisation of urban and suburban liner transport in Ljubljana and Maribor, which as a municipality with more than 100,000 inhabitants already have to organise urban liner transport as a compulsory economic public service after the current law. Secondly, we propose that the Directorate, as a state authority, define the migration area of passenger flows around the wider Ljubljana and Maribor. In these municipalities alone, it is possible to extend or supplement existing lines for the benefit of passengers and to reduce crowds around the largest cities. Thirdly, all these lines must be mandatoryly entered into the register maintained by the Directorate, thereby establishing a review and facilitating the planning of measures for the implementation of integrated public passenger transport. Fourthly, the possibility of urban line traffic being subsidised also from the state budget and other resources, and not only from municipal funds, is introduced, so that municipal budgets can at least partially relieve themselves. Fifthly, the obligation to impose on municipalities for socially sensitive categories of passengers is introduced [[children, schoolchildren, students, students and pensioners]] before changing any conditions for their transport, namely prices and tariffs, obtain a prior agreement from the Directorate so that cases do not happen more recently in Ljubljana, when students who do not live in Ljubljana are treated differently in terms of urban transport, more expensive than those who live in Ljubljana. Ladies and gentlemen, very little needs to be done to improve passenger transport today. We can do that here today. I suggest you support this proposal as suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Government will be explained by Dr Igor Jakomin, State Secretary of the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you very much. With the proposed amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act, the proposer wants to change the concept of public passenger line traffic regulation in particular in the area of the most important immigration flows. Such a change, however, constitutes an essential intervention in the existing regime, as it puts additional pressure on the economic efficiency of the implementation of the existing public service in this area. A new status for bus lines in place is proposed, which would result in the parallel establishment of a new public transport system, with the fact that the current bus congestion is very poor, except in traffic corners. The aim of the proposer is to extend the current urban transport lines in the neighbouring municipality on the basis of amendments to the law. This would lead to the establishment of long lines of local transport in the areas of expected emigration flows. And there are lines like that already. The establishment of parallel lines would not result in improved accessibility to public transport, but only interference with the existing transport system for which concessions have already been granted. Municipal municipalities already have the possibility of improving accessibility to public passenger transport, improving the quality of services and costing transport under the provisions of the current Road Transport Act. This is made possible by the Bus Transport concessions Regulation, which provides that the local community may, under the conditions of co-financing, provide on the desired lines more departures, additional stations or stations. The establishment of additional lines or their extension may allow lower transport on individual lines or part of the line for all users or only for individual categories. If the local community takes advantage of the above options, it can significantly improve the level of supply of transport services in its area. Thus, the integration of transport services and the reduced price into the public transport system can generate a significant number of passengers. Some local communities have already taken advantage of this option in Slovenia. For these reasons, unfortunately, it is not possible to support the proposed amendments and to supplement the Road Transport Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u120	Thank you very much. We begin by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The first is Mr Wingo Jelinčič noble on behalf of the Group of the Social National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to everyone who's in here! In the Slovenian National Party, in the Parliamentary Group, we will support this law. The fact is that this suburban passenger transport is not properly regulated. If, at least, gentlemen were to think that we have certain peaks in these transports, when the busyness of these bus lines should be significantly greater than otherwise, and if we took this into account, it would probably be different, but this is not to be taken into account. The urban and urban passenger traffic is designed to run as it was 30 years ago and precisely at those intervals, rather than taking into account that the fluctuation of the population goes into the city at a certain time, is greater and is even greater at a certain time when it moves from the city. In the meantime, buses are definitely empty. I think that at least part of the law takes that into account. That's why it makes sense to accept it. The introduction of the possibility that urban and urban transport can also be financed from the state budget is certainly good, since the municipalities are already burdened with what I do not know. I think they will have to spend even more money in a short time and even less into their municipal budgets. If we are already giving money for anything, say, for passenger transport in Portugal, for rail transport in Greece, maybe for horse transport in Ireland or something like that, why not give it to their people in their country? That would make sense, but the point of looking in the Slovenian Government is damn hard. In fact, it's an illusional act. I think a lot of things could be done here, especially if this law were passed, because some things would be put in place. Now it's all kind of confused. The fact is, then you can afford to say, yes, our students will pay so much, those who aren't of us, and we don't care. I think we are too small a country to be able to falsify such a discreditation of a certain segment of students, students, pensioners and workers. It is therefore necessary to adopt this law in order to settle these matters and to make arrangements for something else. It would make sense or purpose to introduce a register of urban and suburban traffic lines to be maintained in the Directorate. This is not the case now, and urban or suburban lines are also increasing and prolonging, depending on the economic wishes and economic considerations of certain actors in these matters, regardless of how justifiable these lines are and how much money they will bring. The fact is that urban transport is largely deficient, but it is not deficient because there would be no passengers. Passengers would be if things were arranged differently. If nothing else, let's take a look at Ljubljana's passenger traffic, where you have to pay with that card. If you don't have a card, you can't drive. To a lot of tourists, it seems stupid to have to look around, run around and buy a card that doesn't even know what it's like, but I would drive if I threw in a chip or at least some money. That's not what we have. Perhaps it would make sense to follow this example elsewhere, not to take examples from former Albania or North Korea, but to turn to any more clever logos. That is why I also believe that this law is appropriate to be adopted, although unfortunately I am sure it will not be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The biggest opposition party should be commended for its persistence. As a rule, we decide on their legislative initiatives on a number of occasions because they are, as a rule, irresistibly invested in the legislative process. This will be the second time we will decide on a marriage solution that would allow for the extension of the lines of current urban traffic in the neighboring congregation. This would lead to the establishment of long lines of suburban transport aimed at ensuring the needs of day-to-day migration. Since this is a substantive similar solution to the draft law that we have already decided at the January meeting, we must also repeat in the LDS the reasons why we oppose such solutions. First, we confirm the assessment that the proposed lines already exist and that the establishment of parallel lines would not mean improving accessibility to public transport, but merely interfering with the existing transport system for which concessions have already been granted. The first argument for our opposition is principled in nature, because we believe that the system of public line transport of passengers in road transport because of its nature and the situation in which it is situated does not tolerate partial or ill-considered interventions, unless it wishes to introduce an additional meaningless topic into the already problematic transport subsystem. The other arguments are as follows. In the LDS, it seems understandable to us, given the current system, that public line transport within a particular settlement is carried out only exceptionally and that, to the smallest extent, it is also possible between neighbouring settlements, provided that this requires the day-to-day migration of residents to larger cities and that this does not affect the conduct of an economic public service, i.e. the public line transport of passengers as an economic service provided by the State. It is also reasonable that for such solutions the municipality must obtain permission from the concessionaire, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads. Furthermore, we believe that the purpose of urban transport is to ensure the potential needs of the local population and that the country must enable the general mobility of the population in the territory of Slovenia as a whole. If the municipalities were to join each other and establish what is called suburban line transport, as proposed and planned by the applicants, the linkage or integrity of the road passenger transport system to which the State is responsible would be lost. In this way, there would certainly be unequal operation of regular accommodation lines and thus inequalities in the connectivity of individual locations. Currently, unfortunately, only temporary extended concessions are granted in certain concession areas, representing an existing network of bus public transport lines. Concession also means the exclusive right to carry out a particular activity, which is affected by the proposal under consideration. There would be overlaps or confusion between the existing economic public service and the local economic public service, thus preventing the granting of exclusive rights to concessionaires, which is one of the foundations of the concessional relationship. While in LDS we understand the interest of urban municipalities in particular to extend urban lines across the borders of settlements and municipalities, this would gradually reduce urban traffic burdens. This means that the municipalities would regulate the public transport of road passengers in their own way. However, the partial or complete withdrawal of the State in the public line transport segment without the prior establishment of a regional level and without a comprehensive change in the public bus transport system is too risky in the view of the LDS. She did not guarantee that the congregations would truly reconcile their interests. Nor are stable financial resources provided, which would lead to even greater inequalities in the accessibility of this public service between citizens and citizens in relation to the place of residence. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will not support the bill again. On this occasion, however, we would like to reiterate the chronic and current problems of public bus transport. The number of passengers in public line bus transport is declining and therefore the activity is in a long-term latent crisis. The growth of the public passenger transport system, especially the bus system, shows a long-standing failure of transport policy and its carriers. Specially affected areas outside the influential area of major Slovenian cities, highways and fast roads are affected. So it is already a deprived rural area, where in addition to regular bus lines in the last two decades, shops, health stations, branch primary schools, postal offices and more have also been lost. This process is going quietly, without the attention of the media and the general public, but terribly consistent, of course, which is not right. The direct reason for the continuation of this trend is certainly in the fact that the State is paying only limited compensation to bus operators today, which does not cover the overall difference between the costs created and the revenues generated in the implementation of most bus lines. Unfortunately, despite the economic and environmental crisis, there is a main means of transport in Slovenia a passenger car with which on average 1.1 passengers are taken. The undercompensation is, of course, due to the lack of resources in the state budget, which is falling by 60% in 2011 according to this year. This means that in 2011 the volume of bus services will decrease by 7 million kilometres. In the LDS, we advocate the need to maintain the full mobility of citizens with public line bus transport. The aim should be to improve this mobility and the quality of bus transport, not only in order to ensure minimum mobility of all residents and residents of the Republic of Slovenia and thus more consistent regional development, but also in view of the need for sustainable development of Slovenia, since passenger vehicles are one of the worst environmental pollutants with emissions and noise. We therefore call on the Minister of Transport and other transport policy makers to make systematic changes not only in the field of public bus transport but in the area of public transport as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Magajna will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u125	Your Honor, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Government representative, nice greeting! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act wishes to regulate to a certain extent a number of matters: the possibility of financing urban, suburban transport, including a budget, a register of urban, suburban transport and a whole range of other areas. The purpose of extending the lines along practical starting points is, in itself, to greet when it comes to substantive reasons. But this is where we run into another problem. This is a system-wide regulation of matters which has also been pointed out by the predecessors and the representative of the Government. We therefore understand certain pragmatic reasons for this regulation, but this somewhat non-systemic law would result in unequal distribution of traffic, overlap of economic public service and general public transport and other non-systemic arrangements. I am also aware that the number of passengers in public transport is falling dramatically. When I drove from Kopra to Ljubljana months ago, we were four passengers for almost 4 hours, the whole procedure lasted and I am not surprised. So things will have to be settled at the general level. It is a pity that there has not been a better consultation between the representatives of the Government and the proposers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u127	Well welcomed on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! When discussing the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act, first reading, we would like to point out in the Group of Social Democrats that public passenger transport is important in Europe, as it transports around 150 million passengers daily, a million and a half people to secure employment. However, it is also noted within the EU that the market share of public passenger transport is declining at the expense of increasing the use of passenger cars. Therefore, the need to modernise and increase the efficiency of public passenger transport has also been demonstrated throughout the Union in order to re-energise the use of public passenger transport. Measures or modernisation relate mainly to vehicles, system integration, information provision, quality of services and, in particular, to increased comfort. It is known that potential passengers for public passenger transport do not choose to travel if the journey involves a change in the mode of transport or carriage within one mode, if the waiting periods are long due to the lack of coordination between timetables, if new additional tickets are to be purchased because the pricing and transport systems are not integrated or linked. So if we want to attract passengers, we need a single network, both railways and suburban railways of buses and urban passenger transport. In Slovenia, public passenger transport is organised in three subsystems, namely the railway, where it is a compulsory economic public service for the transport of passengers in internal and cross-border regional rail transport. This system also, of course, includes cross-border bus transport. Here, the State provides for the public line transport of passengers other than public line transport in urban transport as public goods. It shall award concessions to the most favourable tenderers by means of an economic public service and on the basis of a tender. However, funding shall be provided from the cost of services and the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and from other sources. City bus transport also operates in this system and the municipality can provide bus transport as an economic public service. In urban municipalities with more than 100,000 inhabitants, it is carried out as a compulsory economic public service and funds are provided through the sale of tickets and the budget of the municipality. All three systems in Slovenia are not interconnected or integrated. This is also recorded in the Resolution on Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia. Among other things, this resolution also states that the performance of the public service is subject to different conditions and criteria for its implementation, in particular the different criteria and methodologies for monitoring costs and revenues and the payment of compensations or subsidies to road and rail operators. In general, subsidies are valued differently for bus operators than for railways. Therefore, a law is urgently needed to regulate the integrated public passenger transport system in Slovenia. If we look at the law under consideration today, i.e. the proposal for a road transport law, we find that it wants to regulate the day-to-day migration of passengers by introducing a suburban liner transport which is managed under the same conditions as urban liner transport, as a compulsory economic public service. The second objective pursued by this law is that urban passenger transport and urban transport can also be financed from the state budget. The third set under this Act provides that the municipalities and municipalities must obtain the consent of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads to Prices. While these starting points are pleasant and, of course, they must be treated with all due respect. However, the fact that we already have unrelated passenger transport in Slovenia has already been pointed out, the adoption of this law would introduce an additional category into the public passenger transport system and would even result in a parallel public transport system that would weaken the already low economic efficiency of the current system. In view of the introduction of suburban line transport as a compulsory public service, the existing system of transport for which concessions have already been granted is covered. Therefore, we cannot support this law in the Group of Social Democrats. However, we expect both from the Ministry of Transport and, of course, from the Government to prepare the Integrated Public Passenger Transport Act, which will connect the system, both railways, buses, both on regional lines and in urban lines, and, of course, also regulate ticket prices, regulate timetables and introduce a single ticket in particular. All of this is lacking in Slovenia if we want to add a new line transport to this offer, which is the content of this law, and to avoid even greater problems than we already have in the field of public line transport, we cannot support this law. As I have said, we really expect a law linking the current system to allow for the expansion of these systems with additional offers that will be even more user-friendly for all users, who in particular would need additional public passenger traffic at the end of the day, especially when travelling to the largest settlements or cities. Our capital is one of those that is actually the farthest to blame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mrs Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u129	Good-bye, everybody! So the bill that we are proposing today, some of you are saying again that we have already tabled one of these, and you have rejected it, as you reject all our proposals. We would expect to get acquainted with the subject and at least try to find a solution and bring it at this time. We really talked about a similar marriage a bad year ago, but nothing has happened since then. Not so much that the government would say, but we'll consider maybe doing something in this direction. We all agree, and my predecessors, who first said they would reject the law, talked further about what we are saying and why we believe that the law should be amended. We have also prepared such a proposal. We all note that we have poorly developed and unrelated public passenger traffic, that it is long overdue not to correspond with the time and moment in which we live, and that we should take a step forward. God does not allow us to look at what other nations do, and some things we try to do just as they do there. We prefer to build a garage, where we will charge all those who come to Ljubljana and the larger cities, Maribor. At the same time, of course, we are easily destroying our heritage, etc., we are not dealing with an environment for which, among other things, we are spending a lot of money to deal with the negative consequences, rather than using this money to improve public transport, which would result in a significantly less negative impact on the environment. With the assistance of various ministries, we very much like to say that this is a matter of one minister, in particular in this case a transport minister, but it is not a matter of a cultural minister allowing the construction of garages on the Plečnik market and so on. I'd say to each other, "I've arranged for business to be overrun by huge funds, and the effects at the end are not what they should be." The existing law, which is now in force, does not allow the extension of urban transport lines. For the first time, when we discussed this law, we told what we are meeting with all those who come from the local congregations. With the new law, so the law we are proposing, urban transport could be organised differently. So in those parts where the city is really burdened and most people come to the city daily to work from these local congregations, they would make it possible, according to our proposal for a law. Of course, some things can be done. In this regard, the ministry is right, but it is all too often dependent on good will, in particular for our case, the mayor of the municipal congregation and, of course, also those congregations that decide to do so, because it requires funds. Here we make little or no decision as to how much we feel and how much the congregation should contribute. This government is taking money from the congregations, which means that it will be even harder to defend. I don't believe in the financial effects you're talking about. I am sure that if we did serious studies, we would find that daily migration costs us significantly more by car from all suburban and hinterland municipalities to the city than if we allocated some resources from the state budget for these extended lines, but not to hang it up with the municipalities, which we are constantly hanging new and new debts to them, and we are not giving them money for that. As I said, on the one hand, we spend a lot of money on environmental protection, to mitigate the effects of pollution and so on. It would be more expensive to co-finance public transport and extend lines to the suburbs, because we cannot compare and compare the whole of Slovenia, when we all know that whether the Ljubljana region is significantly more developed than others, that there is much more migration than elsewhere, because there is more employment and so on. To excuse ourselves all the time that the problem is that we have no provinces, we agree. But the Minister of Transport comes from the SD party, which is the main culprit for not introducing the province at the end of the previous term. As close to the provinces as we were then, we probably won't be again soon, and we've never been before. To write in response to the Government's proposal for a law in December 2009, i.e. one year ago, that the main problem, because we do not yet have the provinces, is all true. But now we are one year after your promise to have landscapes in Slovenia. You didn't do anything. And in your new opinion, we read exactly the same thing, we don't have landscapes, so we can't do that. Do what you've been chosen to do. The bill requires the consent of the directorate to change prices and similar things, so that, as already mentioned, the conditions for the City Municipality of Ljubljana to remember that students and students from the municipality would not have a subsidised ticket. Despite the fact that before the city’s congregations were formed, the Izhanites, the Škofeljcians, the Bezovts, contributed many of them to the fact that in Ljubljana some of the things that are regulated by other congregations are only now. And that's why she's so self-involved, she's even unconstitutional. For by the Constitution we are all equal at the border, that I may not say anything, and is not worthy of this country. The Ministry also says in its opinion that the municipalities can already organise this public service, improve the level, as I have already mentioned, without the means, despite the fact that we have written a lot of things in the Transport Policy Resolution. The resolution is from 2006, but it obliges all governments, then and today, to do certain things. We wrote in the vision of mobility of the population: "Because of the increasing degree of motorisation the users of public passenger traffic are becoming less and less expensive both for users and for the country and for the local community, which they indirectly and directly subsidise. The long-term affordable solution is only to attract more passengers." That would have happened with our action. "Those who do not depend on public transport as car owners will only use public transport in the event of an appropriate frequency" – this also brings our law – "comforts, speeds and prices". There is further talk that the introduction of a single tariff system and a single ticket should facilitate the use of public passenger transport from the point of view of buying a ticket and so on. I would suggest that both members of the coalition and the Government read what we have written in the resolution. I would remind you once again that you are all or are all committed to the implementation of this resolution. Otherwise, it doesn't make sense to take these things, throw them out the window, and let's work from today to tomorrow. We have also written down what objectives we want to achieve: efficient energy use, a clean environment, increasing the volume and quality of public passenger, road and rail transport, setting up the architecture of intelligent transport systems and so on. In short, we've set ourselves up with a whole bunch of things that, of course, you reject for reasons, we're going to do this another time, and we're not going to do this today. Some of you have told us that we insist on making the same laws. I will say that the Government is even more persistent in rejecting all the proposals that we are proposing in our Group and year after year with the same arguments. If nothing else, as I said at the beginning, could be said, at least, we'll study it, do something. And even all the coalition MPs have predicted that a system law should be made, said what was missing. Of course, you haven't prepared any of this before, nor has your government. I suggest you speak up and advise them that the things that are missing in marriage need to be settled. Mr Weber mentioned what kind of marriage would be needed. All of this could have been done within two years or two more years for this government to do something. Therefore, we would expect her to at least write in her opinion, work hard and do something. For us, just as we see things, there is only one reason not to support our proposals. We're just the wrong proponent. Anyone else would have suggested that we should have behaved differently. All of our proposals are inconceivable to you. Maybe so, but the government doesn't have them at all, so they can't be inconceivable. We will therefore, of course, vote in favour of the proposal we have put forward in the Group of Members. I suggest that the Government commits itself if the problem is that the intermediate rate is not possible because it is not established at regional or provincial level, that it also responds to us when it intends to settle these matters, if it is interested in solving the problems that we have been alerting us to for a year and a half. That is why we have adopted a resolution and prepared a provincial package because we intended to regulate these things. Therefore, it would be good not to discuss the same things again in a year’s time, to find that we do not yet have the countryside, and that is why we cannot do these things. By the way, this government has also promised to regulate the problem of the provinces and establish the provinces. Therefore, we would expect such proposals to come along. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Lojze Posedel will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u131	All in attendance, all in good cheer! I will not commend the proposaler for its persistence, but for the fact that the actual problems currently in passenger and road transport have been very well recorded in this proposal. We really agree with many conclusions and solutions in the Group of Members, but I say in advance that we will vote in favour of the proposal that this proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Nevertheless, we stress that the applicants correctly note that rail inter-urban bus and urban bus traffic are not integrated and that we have poorly developed and unrelated public passenger transport in the country. The Resolution on Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia also states, inter alia, that "it is imperative to adopt a law regulating an integrated public passenger transport system and to determine solutions on how to integrate public passenger transport services, stations and crossing points". In the Zares Group, we also agree with the proposalers' position that the existing division, which stipulates that inter-urban bus transport is organised by the State and that urban bus transport is under the jurisdiction of the municipalities, is not appropriate or has a number of shortcomings. It also argues that day-to-day migration of passengers far exceeds the administrative boundaries of individual municipalities, especially the city of Ljubljana, and that current legislation does not allow the extension of urban transport lines to the icy municipalities. Despite the fact that some interesting and useful possible solutions are covered by the bill, improvements in public passenger transport would bring this about, but we also agree in the Parliamentary Group that the content of the proposed amendments to the law completely changes the basis for the implementation of urban transport and that the direct adoption of this law would probably also bring a number of problems. The fact is that the existing regulation in law also allows individual municipalities to improve public transport services themselves. The establishment of long suburban transport lines is already in place and changes to legislation in this area are not necessarily necessary. In particular, it is most important that amendments and the adoption of this Act should interfere with the existing transport system for which concessions have already been awarded and awarded. Indeed, the proposed amendments cannot be supported by the Group of Members for this reason. However, we expect, and rightly so, that, due to the current anomalies of existing public passenger transport, the country will approach, as soon as possible, with local communities, the improvement or establishment of an optimal public passenger transport system and will welcome and take into account some good solutions that are proposed in this proposal. As we say, we will vote against the proposal that this proposal is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u133	So again, thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Once again, everyone, welcome! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the proposal for a law because we agree with the proposalers' explanation that the proposed amendments and additions to the law regulate the legal gap in the regulation of local passenger transport. The current law governs only as an exception and with the special authorisation of the Directorate, so that urban transport can also be carried out between several municipalities, provided that urban transport does not interfere with the line of cross-border transport concessions. It is true that in the major municipalities and especially in Ljubljana, daily migration goes beyond the administrative borders of the municipalities and it is therefore necessary to arrange several line connections with the surrounding municipalities, from which migration is the largest to the larger cities. This is especially true for Ljubljana. The need for urban transport lines to be extended increasingly to the icy municipalities: Brezovica, Škofljica, Trzin, Domžale, Ig, Grosuplje, Log, Dragomelj, Vrhniko and so on. Of course, in accordance with the Resolution on the Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, it is also necessary to develop a single ticket system in order to finally connect all three types of public transport, such as rail, cross-border and urban transport. Such a form would certainly attract several passengers to public transport, relieve urban transport and also have a favourable impact on the reduction of the greenhouse effects or negative effects, negative impacts on the environment. Such guidance also follows the efforts that are set out in a series of documents adopted at the level of the European Union. We support the law mainly for two reasons, because the existing law does not allow the extension of urban transport lines to the icy municipalities without any major difficulty now, especially because of the setting of conditions and affordable prices, which must not be left to the will of the major municipalities. The law provides that municipalities with organised urban and suburban transport should obtain an agreement to determine or amend the price of the tariff and general conditions for the transport of children, students, students and pensioners in urban line traffic. The regulation of suburban and urban liner transport is of broader importance, as greater use of public transport means compliance with European regulations and reducing environmental negative impacts, and in particular makes transport cheaper. Therefore, the regulation of this system and the pricing of such transport cannot be left to the will of the municipalities, as the highest prices would affect the most socially vulnerable categories of passengers and prevent them from using such transport. The country must prevent the distinction between individual municipalities, for example, as in the case of Ljubljana's request for different prices of student and student tickets, for those who have permanent residence in Ljubljana and for those who do not have permanent residence in Ljubljana. It would therefore also be right that urban and urban transport could also be financed from the State budget and other resources. So far, the legal solution imposed this obligation only on the congregations. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the law at first reading, and we will also give the opportunity to both Government and others to improve it for second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! For the second time in this mandate, we have before us a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act. This time in a slightly altered content. However, in the DeSUS Group, we do not think this time that the proposal for a novel is appropriate for further consideration. The fact is that urban and cross-border bus transport and rail transport are three segments of public passenger transport, which we rightly claim and at this point we confirm to the applicant that they are poorly developed and unrelated. However, according to our assessment, the bill before us does not make any improvements in this area. In the DeSUS Group, we join the Government's opinion that studies and practices have shown that the most appropriate public passenger transport management system is at state level and that an intermediate level is not possible because it is not established regional or provincial level. We also agree with the Government that the proposed means of regulating and managing public passenger transport would constitute a duality. In view of the proposed method, it is not possible to grant the carrier the exclusive right conferred on him by the applicable concession contract. At the same time, of course, we believe that the withdrawal of the country would pose a significant risk to the regulation of such traffic. However, we also estimate that the current Road Transport Act in Article 52 makes it possible for local and national public line transport to be linked, as some good practices in Slovenia already show. As has already been said, we will not support the proposals in the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u136	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the presidents agreed, on a few questions about how to lead and call, that when we invite a colleague, a colleague, an MP, an MP to the debate, we would like to announce at the same time who will be next. Now I'm going to read these again and again because fewer are present, but still. Mr Franco Juri has the floor. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, Mr Miran Jerič, Mr Andrej Magajna, Tadej Slapnik. The next one should be prepared by Mr Branko Marinič. Here you are, Mr Branko Marinič and after him Mr Franz Jurša. He's not going to discuss it? Then Mr. Franci Kek. He won't discuss it. Mr. Rudolf Petan. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Marinic!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to everyone else! I do not think that the organisation of public transport in the Republic of Slovenia is so insignificant, as was also heard from the presentation of the views of individual parliamentary groups. So all of us can see that we are all aware that something is not good, that it should be better, and we care little about it. Keep it that way for a while, because obviously it suits someone in the country, in the Republic of Slovenia very much. To whom does such a situation suit? Those who, instead of managing and defending public interest in a fair and transparent manner, see their personal opportunities or some of the narrower communities of interest, which are somehow linked and cashing money from the State. However, they do little or do not care about the fundamental function that has led us to submit a proposal for a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. This is a law that has no idea how many articles. This is the law by which we have simplified matters to the lowest possible extent, since it contains 5 articles. If the actual interest were to be as it was presented in the parliamentary groups in that introductory part that something really needs to be changed here, then it will be later when it will be. We know it won't happen again. For the second time, we offer a solution to one of the problems most felt by those who would like to use public transport. It is already true that the biggest competitor of public transport of any kind in the Republic of Slovenia is a personal car. But with a smart approach and an example by neighbors in Austria, Germany, Italy. Italy later came up with a very good system, which is very integrated, then we could quickly introduce something similar in Slovenia. As long as some almightys have the power to make decisions and leave responsibility before that, why they do not exercise public interest, then in our love little Slovenia will do the same as it is. Apparently, as it is, it's best suited to those who have the most of it. But it certainly does not suit those who are destined to do so. These are the beneficiaries of such public passenger transport. If we had at least some basic starting points for integrated public passenger transport today, then we could find out that we can buy a ticket at the train station if we buy it in Murski Sobota to drive by city transport in Ljubljana or Maribor or elsewhere. If this public transport were so integrated, then we would also have such timetables for a railway carrier, a bus carrier and another one with which we would be able to drive by bus 5 minutes before the train leaves, which would mean that bus and train schedules are harmonised. I'm afraid they're not. If we followed the experiences of neighbors in Austria, Italy, Germany or any other European country, we would find that in Austria we have a similar bus, and if you don't look at the tires, wheels, you almost lose your sense of whether it's a bus or a train. For after colour, after appearance, they are exactly the same. This means that if there was a real interest in the integration of public passenger transport in Slovenia, Slovenian railways would also have a number of their own buses waiting for the train station at the moment the passenger got off the train and got on the bus or vice versa. Unfortunately, we don't have that. Look, then a passenger comes by train to the capital of Ljubljana or Maribor and is no longer on buses because buses are all colors. You know, as long as you think in Slovenia that 50 bus carriers in the Republic of Slovenia are connected to a state nursery and you want each of your timetables and you want each of your tariffs and this color of buses, whether it is Kam Bus or Veolia or whoever has your political leader, we will not talk so long about the integration of public passenger transport. It's impossible. We offer and propose a concrete solution. For the second time, you say, yes, and we'll do it for the third time. It's not our business. This is not the interest of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but it is the interest of public passenger transport. A package of rail legislation is coming. Instead of proposing to address this problem, the contents of the proposal for rail legislation are being addressed to add oxygen to cartels so that they can continue to breathe. This will be done at the next meetings of the National Assembly, instead of dealing with actual problems, with the actual integration of public passenger transport in the Republic of Slovenia. No, we prefer to deal with how to survive with those who have spent huge amounts of money on the highway program in the past. Now is their opportunity to use public European budgetary money in rail investments. And that's what needs to be helped now. That is why we are changing the system of reorganisation of Slovenian railways to give oxygen to them so that they can continue to breathe and use various cartels to drive the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia instead of helping them to truly integrate public passenger transport into the Republic of Slovenia. All studies, many experts who are the product of our own knowledge, are waiting for their opportunity. Let us give them the opportunity to help them with their own knowledge in solving specific problems. As long as you're not willing until there's a real interest in this area being resolved, we're just going to have anarchy in this area for so long. If, with respect and respect, you have at least partially looked at the content of this proposal, especially at the beginning, where we say how other European countries are regulated, then you might find that in the Republic of Slovenia, in a relatively short time, it could be very well arranged, but indeed very well arranged. And then we wouldn't have what I said earlier about you coming to the capital and you can't find yourself in these colors of buses anymore. In neighbouring Austria, the passenger does not look at the other bus, aha, those colors such as the train, so I drove in and the same color of the bus with the same sign literally when you get off the train, drive into the bus owned by the railway, and the railway manages this public passenger traffic. We do have bus companies that are in some strange ownership structure. Often these ownership structures or in most cases also relate to the ownership of public interest municipalities. But this public interest is quickly turned into a personal, private or narrower interest in large cases. And that's not good. This is not right and it is not fair to the users of public passenger transport in the Republic of Slovenia who actually want it. It is true that the statistics show that 1.1 or 1.2 passengers per passenger car. Yeah, but let's ask ourselves why. It's probably the interest of someone in the capital if I say that it'll be easier to understand that someone who comes in from Jesenic is driving a car to the center and paying for expensive parking in the center. It is in the interest of someone that as many of these personal cars as possible come to a direct centre, regardless of the crowd, which is unbearable, because someone who is back in touch with someone will earn money in cashing up a parking lot that is in Ljubljana for an hour. If there is public passenger transport organized, believe me, even on the principle that you leave a car in a certain circle outside the centre of Ljubljana, where public parking is intended precisely to stop those who come by car, a few kilometers in a ring, park a passenger car, sit on public transport, whether it is a train or a bus of the same carrier who is actually working in the public interest, and prepare at the centre after work. But this is not the interest of those who advocate as much anarchy as we have today. And once again, we argue that this cannot be accepted because it is unrelated, and the government comes with its solutions. But I have said what the government will come with: with the railroad law, that some who already have the privileges will have the opportunity to confirm their privileges. This is what we do, and it is not fair to people, for the third time I have stressed who would like truly organised, integrated public passenger traffic in the Republic of Slovenia. Respected and respected, if we had established provinces today, it would also be much better and much easier here in the area of the integration of public passenger transport. I regret that even here, with little understanding, with a little letting go of one and the other, we can get a really good concept for solving this area. But obviously this is not an interest, and it is of little concern to someone who has a closer interest in this public interest, which, at least here in the National Assembly, should be expressed and supported. Those who are not in favour of the proposed solution do not claim that our proposal is the only best, but it is certainly the basis from which we can base an upgrade, and if we unify, we can get a relatively good law in a relatively short time. And we will cut through many of the strands by which it is found today on the state nursery, and we do not wonder how the integrated public passenger problem is in the Republic of Slovenia. We are in the field of organising, implementing public passenger transport in the Republic of Slovenia far, far behind. And even after the second submission of this proposal to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have no hope that we will come up with an immediate solution which will, by government procedure, announce the arrival of the law with such content as will regulate public passenger traffic in the Republic of Slovenia. This is irresponsible to all those who would really like to see integrated public passenger transport in Slovenia. I mentioned earlier the coordination of the timetables, the harmonisation of the single ticket. Look, while we're putting in some urban cards or what I know, what else, then we can figure out that someone has a closer interest, it's not a public interest. If it were a public interest, it's a single ticket that's valid in the Republic of Slovenia, you press it on a magnet, it'll read it, it'll track it, it'll open the door for you, and that's it. This is how we deal with some companies, some individuals who have only and only personal, closer interests. And that's not good. Public passenger traffic in the Republic of Slovenia is collapsing here. I hope and wish that we really come to the realization that the Republic of Slovenia needs integrated public passenger transport, not a political party. Neither does the Slovenian Democratic Party. We are therefore taking the initiative to come to the conclusion in the parliamentary groups that the proposed content of the law is a suitable basis for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u138	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor to prepare Mr Vito Rožej. [[He's not here.]] Marian Bezjak. Are you going to be next? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! It is important content, it is not only road transport, but it is somewhat broader, as it also affects economic activity. Slovenia is in a difficult economic situation at the moment, and in such a situation it is probably the right time to reduce administration. See what a fat address we can read in today's media: The country generates €5.7 million in deficits a day. Ladies and gentlemen, 5.7m euros a day is short! That should ring all the bells. And when we see this and hear it, we should immediately ask ourselves where we can help, where we can reduce any administrative obstacles to make things run faster. But after all that, if I focus only on today, what we have experienced here today, I am no longer surprised that Slovenia has created 5.7m euros in deficit per day. Look, it's been happening exactly what's been going on for two years and what we've been listening to for two years. You say, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you do not support this law, that the law is not a suitable basis for further consideration, but at the same time to some extent it is difficult to admit that the topic is real, but you are doing it wrong. But, ladies and gentlemen, that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration, we have already listened to it and I will ask the question once again: What is this government and this coalition fit for further rule in the country of Slovenia, where today there are 5.7 million deficits per day? Our law is probably more suitable for further consideration than you for further rule in the Republic of Slovenia. In the field of transport, chaotic conditions prevail. And I would still understand if you said, "well, because this proposal may not be the best," but you're not so much as to say, "but we're going to try to complement it, fix it to be better." Today we had a first point, and I think that the Land Book Act, which has a few ten articles in it, was some ten amendments prepared by the ruling majority. That's what they say. You've been fixing the law. It is said that almost every article had to be corrected. But is that law suitable for further consideration? Of course, because he was there protecting the interest of a narrow circle, just as he was here in this case, where the monopoly of a narrow circle is protected. We don't even have a public transport system – which system we haven't started yet because you don't even leave us. As soon as we raise such a question, it is necessary to put an end to it as soon as possible, the law is not suitable for further consideration. And what's going on? In every street in Ljubljana, garage houses are built. Okay, well, that's not bad, either. But what does that mean? We give a signal: you just come to Ljubljana, lean onto the streets, blow up hard particles of CO2, because Slovenia will pay for it, punishment is not a problem, and we will cash in the garage house, you just come with the cars. What it's like when you're driving half an hour from Parliament to the Economic Exhibition, how it looks, I wouldn't explain it to you. Of course, you don't care because someone "hara" money on garage houses. Public transportation is organized in major cities, but what helps when this public transportation only leads you to the edge of this great congregation, and you may then be ten kilometers away in another suburban congregation and cannot take this public transport. No, even more. At the Ministry, because I have experienced this myself, I hope that it is with all my responsibility to say, even to the one who would like to prepare alternative transport or other transport in that small congregation, you will not give him your consent. I was there when we tried to make it possible for someone, but there was no other transport in that hour, and the Ministry couldn't handle it. Can you imagine? The municipal border is the administrative obstacle that the bus cannot drive. You can't drive across this border because you're protecting the interests of some individuals. What it looks like, I don't know. On the other hand, Slovenia has received penalties in all possible areas. Penalty for CO2 exhausts. We have some €10 million to pay in Brussels. Penalties for particulate matter, again blowing out passenger cars and, of course, trucks. However, when some of us are trying to organise public transport in order to be able to reach Ljubljana or another major public transport centre from our municipality, this is not possible. But can you imagine what an excuse is? The law doesn't allow that. You can imagine that the law does not allow for, say, a route, I don't know, from Ljubljana to Grosuplje. The law doesn't allow that. There's a border in between, there's a municipal border. For any purely ordinary bureaucrat, it would be the simplest thing to say, "Okay, we'll change the law." No, that's not even possible with us. We don't even have such lousy bureaucrats who would say that we need to change the law, which is the easiest thing for every bureaucrat. No, that's not possible. The law does not allow this, but we will not change the law, especially if you have imagined it in the opposition. On the other hand, students and students cannot have subsidised transport from the suburban municipalities to Ljubljana. Those who live here will have their own prices, while others will have their own prices slightly higher. As much as this is disputed or in accordance with the constitutional right to equality before the law, I would not be discussing this right now. That's what you know best because you're always saying that there's something in conflict with the constitution that we're proposing. But I think what we're proposing would be exactly what would be in accordance with the Constitution, so that everyone would have the same rights. If someone moves from the municipality of Ljubljana to Ljubljana, he has the same subsidy or conditions as one that is purely at the border of this great city municipality. You probably support the monopoly, I don't know, of Ljubljana's passenger transport, of any other traffic in any other place, but at the same time you don't license a route to any other carrier who would be willing to carry out the route across the distance. You can't. I'll tell you again, I was in the Ministry when we tried that, but it couldn't be done. And in that hour, there was no other transport from any monopolies, but there was no way. I will also say this that, by chance from the Ministry today, no one is sitting here, which was there at the time, but many times is sitting here too. You support monopolies and anarchy and the will of the great congregations. It's obviously not a regulated country. Clearly, it is not your concern that this data, that the state generates €5.7 million in deficits per day, could be reduced and that people in these difficult times would be allowed to have easier access to work if they already have it in large cities. Not even that! But with what you're doing, you're just trying and pouring more oil so it won't be just 5.7 but maybe 6 or 7 million euro a day in Slovenia. And that happens all the time and monopolies are supported. We have already considered such a law today. This is the Land Book Act, where citizens themselves will not be able to provide certain services, but only through the monopoly of lawyers and anyone else in this area. Only that it will be more expensive for you to pull out people who are already living as hard as they are, even the last euro they have, so that some others will be even richer than they already are. No, it's the same here now. In one day two such cases, but now we can no longer claim to be the case. And I will no longer say that it is the case that Slovenia has €5.7 million in deficits per day. It's conscious and planned. Looks like it suits someone. But the fact that this government is so incompetent, I don't think I can claim it anymore. But obviously it's monopolies, it's about creating monopolies, because obviously these monopolies, I don't know, had great merit in having these pigs come before the elections, that someone got black and degraded, and that you won. This is more than obvious and I support our proposal. I would expect you to support him and strive to improve him. In order to do so, I told you that we had this case today, and a few ten articles in the law on the proposal of this law. That's a yes, only will has to be done. But apparently here in this coalition, there is no will in this government. I support this law because I think it's going in the right direction. It's not just sitting around crying about the situation being difficult, it's something needs to be done here. You have to try to do something, not say, "no, it's not because you said it." It is a common matter and we all face problems with public transport in one way or another. I support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u140	Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor. Mr. Guido Kres will be next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well-known Secretary of State of the Ministry of Transport, with fellow Members, fellow Members and Members! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have decided to introduce the Road Transport Act only for one reason, because we want this law, which is probably over 50 years old, to be amended and made as we need it today in the modern time in which we live. The bill is important to adopt for reasons of ecology and faster movement of people referred to in point a in point b. All these things are written in this law, which we are proposing today. The integration of public transport in Slovenia is essential. This would actually take a big step forward in the system of ecology. We know that, in fact, Ljubljana is very vulnerable to poor climate conditions and that is why the impact on the environment or air pollution is much greater here in this city. We all know that more than 28 000 people are brought to Ljubljana daily by public or private transport, especially by cars. This is actually the law that is ready, and so would quite significantly get rid of this traffic, this pollution of the environment in the capital of Slovenia. Why are we dealing with this marriage? Just because we don't care how we live, what environment, what climate we're going to live in tomorrow, and who's going to have some monopoly or benefit. It is in our interest to actually bring people closer to public transport, which will allow for greater accuracy, faster flow of people also from the local municipalities, not just urban transport. I am sure that this would take us a step further, because this would get rid of such crowds in the capital and normally in larger cities such as Maribor, Novo mesto, Koper etc. And that's why it's important that we move forward. Another important thing. I know that all the predecessors of the parliamentary groups have said that the amendment of the law is necessary, but no one is taking a step forward. I know that it is possible to take another step in this law through the joint cooperation of all experts, as it does not say anywhere that we are the best, but we are trying to be good and we are looking out for a better day for citizens and citizens tomorrow. It is true that it would also be important for the State to co-finance part of the vehicles, even in major cities or in important tourist or similar places, such as electric buses. What helps if there is no traffic in the city of Piran, but if the bus traffic takes place in the annual period referred to in point A in point B and unfortunately there are not enough air conditioning to be installed on buses at least. No, bus 10, 15, 20 minutes laufa, pollutes the environment to cool down in hot days bus. I'm sorry. These are the things that should be emphasized. I will not explain this law for too long, because I believe that this law will come back into consideration in time, precisely from this point of view, because someone else will be proposing this law, about the same as it is today. I will repeat the words of the Minister of Economy, who said, "Jesus Christ!" I also say, "Jesus Christ, Slovenia is wood!" Do you know where? To these bills, which Markovic used to give them numbers to zeros in the days of Yugoslavia. Here is a banknote of 20 000 euros, probably Slovenia will start printing such banknotes if we want to survive in this sudden fall of Slovenia down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u142	Mr. Guido Kres has the floor. Mr. Aloise Potočnik will be next. No, Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! In any case, we agree that the arrangements for urban and urban liner transport must be regulated to make this more important, and in particular, the selfishness of the city’s municipalities is a matter of concern to me in this story. It is as if the city’s municipalities can develop on their own, as if when large migrations are in these cities, they are not even gaining them. I am convinced that if we throw this on a calculation, that the costs that are more to them are certainly linked to the greater profits of the entire population coming into the cities. From the students, from the jobs, from all this, these people spend every day in town. I know from experience that even what is consumed at home is getting back to where you are at work, and it must be a big plus. And I say that the country should prevent the distinction of passengers between individual municipalities, such as the current demands of Ljubljana, and that things should be uniform at national level, and then a single price will be agreed within this agreement or introduced, from which the correct, fair and fair matters will then be covered as they must. Certainly not at the expense of the direct burden on the inhabitants and residents, citizens and citizens who come to the centres every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u144	Mr Ivan Grill has the floor.The following will be Mr Miroslav Klun, Villa Trophynik, Loize Posedel, Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps for those who follow this transfer and may not have been able to understand in this debate what the basic point of this proposal is, at the same time very, very useful, in order to try to ensure greater use of public transport by means of such legislation and to enable people who do not have their cars, their transport, these are especially older children, mothers and children, to be able to take them to school, kindergartens, music schools, to a doctor. But it is not only this moment that we should follow in Slovenia that it is also very important to protect the environment. Several times in this Parliament, too, the power to see that this government, this coalition, has been working on some planned programmes, solutions that will encourage people to make greater use of public means of transport. When the Motor Vehicle Tax Act was passed, where, of course, the tax increased – we opposed it – one of the important arguments was mainly by the coalition to encourage this higher tax on people to use public transport to a greater extent. That's not true. It is true that this law was intended to increase the inflow to the state treasury, but unfortunately despite this law, despite the higher tax, we still see that each day the country generates as much as 5.7 million deficits per day. Well, not just that. I am very surprised by the coalitions, and governments, when they simply ignore this law, say that it is not suitable for further consideration. In doing so, they repeat that a similar law has been dealt with some time ago and that we are very persistent in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is considered an honour. Look, we're really persistent, because hope dies last. And I hope that it is only by the government or the coalition that a solution can be drawn up that will replace such a solution as we propose today. Even in the first draft of the law, which we have proposed, which was not exactly identical, but pursued the same goals, we have expected, as explained at the time, that this law is not comprehensive enough for the Government to produce something more comprehensive, more complex. But today we see that nothing has been done in this area. Therefore, do not "walk us again" if a similar law comes back in a few months, perhaps we will give another address, and today, by coalition Members, it has been said that this should be an integrated matter and we will give the title of the Integrated Transport Act, in which the same matters would be resolved. As I said, in Slovenia, it is unfortunate that the use of personal vehicles in which one is driving is increasing, we rarely see that two are driving, especially on these long routes. I drive myself to Ljubljana, but I have a chance on the highway to really see, I don't know if I meet 5% of the cars where the two are driving, besides the driver the driver. We're driving on our own. 20 years ago, 25 years ago, the situation was different – even in cities. Where there was organised passenger traffic, the city buses were full, bus stations were full. Then, precisely because of the poor solutions, because of the changes that people have been making to start using their cars, a number of people have just bought another car because of the poor traffic connections with passenger traffic, because a family with two children probably does not have one car for all the obligations they have to carry out due to the poor traffic connections of public transport assets. As a result, public transport vehicles were increasingly being used, and on the other hand, passenger cars were increasingly being cited, causing environmental pollution, crowding on roads, and more traffic accidents. And now to reverse this trend in favour of public transport, it will not be easy to eat. I'm sure it won't be easy. I am confident that there will need to be a lot of action on comprehensive systemic solutions that will impress or direct people, not just for economic reasons, even for such or other reasons, that we may also be aware of this. But you have to start somewhere. And this marriage is certainly one step towards this. Even if the state were to finance this public transport in the municipalities where they have it, this could be a great relief or a great help. I can monitor myself in the Municipality of Novo mesto, where I come from, where we have urban passenger traffic, but I tell you that except at morning tips, and perhaps at the time of the end of the working hours or the end of the schools, those buses drive themselves. The driver or now the new ones are the women who drive this, and the buses drive themselves. As many as a Member move around the territory in other municipalities where they do not have transport, in rural areas, most of the questions for older people are precisely because of poor traffic connections and they want and ask me whether there is anything to be done for buses to drive around such places, not only in urban centres or urban areas, but unfortunately there is no problem that the solutions are such or such legislation that makes it impossible, or on the other hand, to increase costs. Another interesting information that may be obsolete today, even more in favour of this law, is that, I think, two or three years ago, I had the opportunity to analyse revenues in Novo Mesto City by selling tickets or tickets for bus transport. And since I had that number check, it was found that those tickets didn't even cover the driver's salary. And then it is not surprising that one such municipality per year with at least EUR 500 000 must subsidise those selected concessionaires so that they can carry out this transport. As you have already announced in the coalition that you will not support this law, the government is too small for us in the opposition, even though this is a constructive proposal, so I ask you never to repeat here that we are in opposition to make such proposals that are unrealistic to increase costs in the state budget. Look, this isn't exactly the law. If it were a little bit of good will, if not otherwise, in this text, if there is really any possible place that is not the most conceivable thing, it could change, we have time in two more cases to change it. I believe there will be no such thing in the coalition because there is no understanding or support. Come on then, I call on the government, the ministry, in particular, to draw up a law that will make this issue, which is indeed a problem, and also solve it, so that we will not then hear a similar solution when we re-commit it in order to prepare a new proposal. Look, your mandate is due to expire, half the mandate is behind you, if not sooner, two years from now it'll probably be an opportunity for another government, another coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u146	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor. Mr. Janko Weber is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. You don't know if it makes sense to say this to an empty hall and a coalition that sees the same problems as us, but doesn't want to solve them, but you don't want to talk about it. I must say that I am particularly disappointed; always saying that the law is not suitable for further consideration is very underestimating to us who have prepared it. And at the very least, what we would like to do is open the debate to talk about it, but obviously it is not in the interest of the Government or the coalition Members, you don't like not to talk about not thinking about the problems we are facing. We have previously said a whole lot of things that would make such a law, even maybe modified — if you really think that some things have not been properly addressed. The problem is not just those who work in the city. Children from the suburbs go to Ljubljana to music school, go to training and to a whole bunch of activities, and we also do not allow them to come by public transport, but parents are transported here and there every day. Every year, on a day without a car, we close parts of Ljubljana, close the center, and then all those who would drive across the centre drive a little bit around; we cause even more chaos, instead of opening a large parking space on the outskirts of the city every year without a car and sending people to the bus. That's how they do things elsewhere, but we have some weird philosophy here, and we don't know how to do these things. Part of the country is also the administrative unit, which, by giving consent in various locations to new and additional garages in the city, is also promoting such a negative policy; therefore, more cars in the city, unlike London, other cities that have long closed down the city’s passenger car centres and have otherwise arranged, financed, invested enormously in bicycles, public transport and so on. We're just doing things another way. I would suggest that the coalition would still give this law an opportunity to at least open up a debate on the Transport Committee, to try to find some solutions, because we cannot expect any difference from today for the next few years. If concession contracts are signed and some things are in place, we need to think about what, after they are no longer due to expire, because the easiest thing is probably to extend them and continue the situation as it is. We now have to prepare solutions for when these things run out, not to start talking at the time, and we will need a decade again to move things around. I would therefore appeal here to you to consider if the law is really so bad that it will be difficult to vote for it, to at least allow it to be further discussed and then to the committees responsible for it, we are talking about it. Above all, I would like to, because there have been quite a few suggestions given, not bad, I do not say that all our solutions are ideal and best, but together we can probably find the ideal and the best. It would therefore be true that the law is in place to support and open up a debate on a competent committee, which I am not a member of, but I know that this is a problem and that it would be wise to settle these matters as soon as possible, so I also support our proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u148	Mr. Jacob Weber has the floor. The next one will be the government's representative.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. Once again, I would like to point out that we really need a law in the field of public line passenger transport that will link all operators of this traffic in Slovenia to work in one system, with a single ticket, with a harmonised timetable, and I hope that everyone interested will also improve their fleet in order to attract as many passengers to their vehicles or means of transport as possible. However, I also agree with the statement made by the opposition that the interpretation in the government's response that, because the interim stage is not possible, it is not possible to establish a regional level of line transport. So this is about the fact that even if we had landscapes, I would still need someone to coordinate all of these line transports; either at national level, at regional and at local level. This problem would still remain unresolved in the case of regions, or would actually increase as more players in this market would have had more and even more difficult to coordinate timetables or if they did not have someone to coordinate it would become even more uncoordinated. Otherwise, the system of establishing landscapes in Slovenia has never been so well suited to function as a whole in a region. Even if we take only to compare the area, which is also part of the interpretation of this law relating to Ljubljana and then to the suburban municipalities such as Škofljica and also towards Kočevska, we can find that these boundaries have changed – and what would be the province that could act in a coordinated manner in the area of local bus transport? It would still remain Ljubljana as such, with its system – of course part of the provinces joined, either one or the other and things were misplaced, so the establishment of the provinces in Slovenia did not happen. Last but not least, if we stay in the provinces and in these line transports: to a large extent, all the funds or a large part of the funds that the provinces would receive should invest in the maintenance of the roads on which this traffic is being carried out, including the maintenance of the regional railway lines; and if we look at what amounts they are, then we could very quickly find that the provinces with those resources that were allocated to them in the case of the proposal that was then addressed could find that they would not actually control the road system or the rail system, and even less try to provide effective line public transport. So here in this area, I think it is unnecessary to look for solutions that further burden the state and local budgets, and things need to be rationalised and the law on integrated public passenger transport is the only one that can rationalise all this activity and raise the level of this public line traffic to a significantly higher level than it is today. I am also of the opinion that this law should already be in Parliament and, in my opinion, could also be dealt with, I do not see any specific reservations. Although reservations are, probably, specific to each carrier, because each one wants to continue processing his or her kindergarten and does not want to talk to a neighbor or another carrier. Last but not least, we can read this from words or thoughts that are also recorded in a newspaper article published on October 29 on the subject With a train passing by Škofljica. This is a reconstruction of the Grosuplje–Kočev line. There the representative of the Slovenian Railways calmly says that they are thinking about allowing parking places to then park their cars to move to the railway and travel towards Ljubljana. I am lacking in this explanation mainly because he expects bus traffic to be possible to the station where you can get on the train and drive to Ljubljana. This is especially true because we are facing extreme congestion in the morning tips and also during the afternoon period with very dense traffic and very low speeds that you can actually reach on this road, when you drive either in the corners or also because of many restrictions through the settlements and the poor road elements of this road. So in a very short time, the solution could be combined, integrated passenger transport, both bus and rail. And unless we adopt this law that connects it, of course, we will not also regulate this area in Slovenia in a rational way and that the effect on those who need it will be particularly friendly. That is why I think, instead of making the same laws, at least after we have taken a quick look at this bill that we are considering today and is practically identical to what we have been considering a few months ago. In fact, I see some good about this in that we can also speak out in Parliament about this problem. Unfortunately, I must point out that this law does indeed, by introducing a new mode of transport, which is also referred to as bus transport by bus, generates additional difficulties and additional inconsistencies in the timetables, and in particular interferes with the already concluded concession contracts. Well, some of the contracts are really so natural that without compensation, if you want to change that, you can't. And at what costs this is related, of course, this law should also say that if we want to decide in the National Assembly on this and say that these criteria are manageable and that we should adopt this law because there will be minor damage to public funds and we will solve the problem of public passenger transport. Unfortunately, this law does not contain such information and cannot therefore be supported in such a content. Perhaps it would be better, even if you are thinking about the third, to try to complement it with more concrete content, especially in assessing the costs and consequences of adopting such a law. So much so, I would say, as a good way to avoid turning around in a vicious circle and not actually coming forward in solving these problems. I am convinced, however, that this debate will help the Ministry of Transport to prepare this law on integrated public passenger transport and put it into the procedure of the National Assembly, and that this is something that can also be addressed more quickly in this general debate on the first reading of this law. Therefore, we do not need a second reading on the Transport Committee, because there we can talk about individual articles, amendments to this article, but it is not possible to extend the content of this law and it is indeed more appropriate to close this law and then start a new chapter, which will indeed provide a solution to the entire public passenger transport system in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u150	Would you like a word from the government? Here you are, Dr. Jakomin, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Several times it was mentioned that the Government was to draft a public passenger transport law and put it into consideration as soon as possible. The Ministry of Transport already has a professional basis for regulating the whole area of public passenger transport, as well as a draft law on public passenger transport. I also have a draft with me, if anyone is interested, there are fifty-five articles and, although it is already so extensive, it is still not divided in the area of financing and delimitation, which will be completed in the near future. As part of the preparation of the project, integrated public passenger transport is still in the process of producing some studies that will show exactly what model for the management and implementation of public passenger transport is optimal for the Republic of Slovenia. Furthermore, many times the price of the ticket was mentioned today. It is not possible to propose that the municipality, in order to determine or change the prices of the tariff and general conditions for the transport of children, students, students and pensioners in urban line transport, should obtain a transitional agreement from the Directorate. The eligibility to the amount of the transport subsidy or ticket price will be determined by the municipal social centres on the basis of tax administration data under the new law on the administration of public funds rights. These centres will communicate to the carriers the amount of subsidies for each student or student. The Act will be implemented on 1 September 2011. Data on the amount of subsidies for the transport of pupils and students will be included in the central database. As for the operational work on the integration of public passenger transport, I must say that the Ministry is preparing all the grounds for establishing a Directorate for the Integration of Public Passenger Transport. This Directorate will integrate all modes of transport in Slovenia. It will coordinate the timetables and will pool all personnel and resources now distributed by four ministries, which in one way or another subsidise various groups in Slovenia. The creation of this Directorate is not about increasing employees and the number of operational people, but it is simply about redistributing operational capacities, which are divided into four ministries into one unit, which will be able to successfully and effectively integrate all public passenger traffic in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u152	Would you like to speak to the proposer? Here you go, Dr. Peter Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u153	Thank you very much. First, I would like to thank the Secretary of State and the Director of Transport at the Ministry. It is true that it is Friday and then the opposition has this bad luck that, when it proposes laws, it will be Friday, and perhaps it will be a little bit of an hour, but both representatives are here and are listening to this debate. I have not often seen other representatives of the government to sit so seriously in the hall. I really think that this is an additional effort, at least the ministry shows in this matter, unless the members of the coalition already show, with the exception of rare exceptions, an interest in this topic, which is so important and which, as you all have identified today, we are making a persistent investment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. It is not about prestige, it is about the needs that are real and that are on the ground, so this second attempt, because the first attempt has been made to criticise that we want to fully liberalise public passenger traffic so that if we leave it to the municipalities, the system will fall apart completely. Of course, we took this thought seriously and after considering, after looking at the numbers, as Mr Weber says, there are no numbers at the back – of course they are, because we know the data. In Ljubljana and Maribor, 80% of public passenger transport in Slovenia, urban and suburban transport is carried out in the suburbs of Ljubljana and Maribor. The landscapes were mentioned today; this law does not mention the provinces at all! This law mentions the migration area of passengers. What's that? This is the area, from where, we know, the daily flows of passengers to the capital, to Ljubljana or also to Maribor, from neighbouring municipalities. Well, life is so that it dictates the daily needs of passengers to come to the capital, to one big city and to another big city, which they both have to have under the law on the economic public service of urban transport, but are treated as urban transport, and is, of course, in charge of the city municipality of Ljubljana or Maribor. Municipal municipalities in Ljubljana are all around the capital, say: Brezovica, Domžale, Trzin, Škofljica, Ig, Grosuplje, I can list further, Vrhnika. These are the congregations from which the daily flow of passengers into and back to the capital is a problem. But the problem that we have identified is completely administrative, because the existing Road Transport Act states that urban transport must not reach the neighbouring municipality, except under special conditions when it is possible to do so. I say it is good that in those rare cases with great pain it was done: that the city bus now comes to Škofljica and that it comes to Vanj Gorica, because there was a concessionaire who had a parallel line there, obviously did not obstruct the establishment. And we are always talking about administrative obstacles that prevent us from improving the quality of public passenger transport with a simple solution, so that the city lines can expand to the suburbs. It's a simple solution. But what a traveler wants — that is not the point! It was worrying, so I understood the debate, in particular the members of the coalition, that the country would lose control completely. That's not true! In our proposal, the law nicely describes this area to which these urban transport lines can reach; they are not determined by the municipality, determined by the directorate. The Directorate is a national authority and it has this data and it defines those municipalities where urban transport lines can be extended. This is the first condition that this bill takes into account and does not imply the withdrawal of the State. Not at all. The municipality of Grosuplje will not determine whether or not it has to have, but the Directorate would, after this proposal, assess what this migration area is. And it's not about any country, one way or another. It is related to the needs of passengers, respected colleagues and fellow Members. The passenger must be in the front! And we have a simple solution, because it also worked out well. Ask the residents how traffic has grown now that city bus number 6 is heading towards Vnanji Gorica. It was a good decision, but we had a lot of bureaucratic complications along the way, and I don't know what happened to not talking about the Skull. Why? If the law can determine this and it is simple and it is no longer dependent on the will of every mayor, but we have a legal framework for this. This is the first solution that is good for passengers and also means integration that you mention. It means integration of two types, urban and suburban transport into a single solution that is good for passengers, which is also good for the capital for Ljubljana and is also good for Maribor as the second largest city. This reduces the pressure of all these daily passengers to Ljubljana. The quality is improving. I also do not understand the Government's concern that bus carriers would become worse off. Yeah, for God's sake, how? On the contrary! More and more passengers would have been acquired. Therefore, the proposal for subsidisation is also included in this proposal. Because we know what the real cost of transport is. And if we only went to an economic assessment, this price would be unattractive for the passenger, so this proportion of the possibility of subsidising public transport in order to make it attractive for people to use it; and they will use it and will need more buses, I am sure! And not the opposite! While, of course, the state has all the control through the Directorate. That is why the proposal was in our law so as not to lose this traceability or this integration of public passenger transport. That's the first thing. And the other one. In addition, the Directorate would also maintain a register of urban transport lines, so that it really has an overview of this and that, as you have identified in the coalition, it can then serve for some further integration of public passenger transport. The integration between the road and the railway, between bus and rail transport, is also an integration between public passenger transport, urban and suburban transport. And this is one of the steps of integration! Thus, a solution that is, in fact, only for the benefit of passengers and is simple. And I am glad that we all find that there is something wrong with public passenger traffic, but also you all kind of welcome the persistence and approach of us as candidates, at least this is my feeling after today's debate, but you're afraid that the country will lose control of it. This is not true at all, because we, as proponents, propose to the Directorate that it determine the areas of the municipal municipalities which are suitable for suburban transport in order to establish a register of lines. But of course, because there is something positive – what is not now – that there is a possibility of financing urban passenger transport from the state budget. And if it's not a good thing, if it's not good for the passengers, for the people, for which we would give money from the state budget, then I don't know! This is good for the achievement of all, including environmental objectives, the removal of urban crowds – we listened to on the Committee on Mirroring to the Government by NGOs. Three of those sad faces were given to the Government for public passenger transport. I'd say three black dots because nothing happens. Here we have the first step, which is simple. And don't be afraid of concessions! I don't understand that we're afraid of what's going to happen to concessionaires now! Yeah, are they concessionaires of public interest?Oh, my God! Well, the marriage solution is one that's good for the passengers, so the carriers will adapt. Well, if they don't see the interest in driving full buses, then I don't know. Perhaps it is better that they drive empty buses now because they have a subsidy paid a mile away, whether they drive at five or six or seven. I think this could be a good first step. And I don't know why you just stand up for it right now. Even if the law on integrated public passenger transport is passed, as we hear and expect it, because it is our response, because the Government has not prepared it, so for the sake of constructiveness we wanted to contribute, to help, in the end also to the Government, that we do this in the National Assembly instead of the Government, to say that things should go on. Because in practice this is already possible and has proved to be, but with great obstacles and suffering. Why don't we do it now? Let's make this effort! But even when the law on integrated public passenger transport is in place, we already see that it will establish one agency, probably this bureaucracy will once again have its own acceleration in the writing of sub-laws for itself, not for passengers. I hope this will not be the case, instead of starting immediately with this first step, which has proved to be in practice that it can be done. And after we talk about the integration of public passenger transport, rail transport. Since Kočevska was just mentioned: the first and second phase of the modernisation of the Grosuplje–Kočevje line was adopted in the previous term. In the previous mandate, this went to the budget as the only regional update line. Great, isn't it, fine! When we proposed to the opposition in the National Assembly that the second phase be modernised immediately, this amendment was, of course, rejected! In short, it is true that we feel in our Group that the biggest problem is the proposalr. And that's too bad. It is a shame that the proposal is good because it is constructive and because it is actually possible to feel it in practice, but with great difficulty things are being introduced. Why don't we do it by helping this marriage. But here I really appeal to Members and Members, and I also thank you, because the debate has only shown this desire, if not the other, at least the reward for our perseverance, that we want to move something. And I really don't understand why we shouldn't accompany this marriage and turn on the green light. They will follow the second and third treatments, where perhaps some thought can be resolved. But if this law is adopted, there will also be a good basis for the law on integrated public passenger transport. There, I'm sure there's the same problem with concessions, the same problem as this moment. It's the same question. I do not know the proposal, but I am sure that the same will have to be done with the problem of concessions. If, say, they're divided by another law. The same issue of existing concessions for bus operators will be raised. So why don't we keep this law going? The law is good, once again, because it establishes a high-quality network of liner urban transports, not only within Ljubljana but also within Maribor, but more widely because it makes passengers more accessible. But, of course, under point two, it allows the state budget to contribute to this too. And let it contribute, because that's what's positive and coming back through other effects, through a smaller crowd in cities, through smaller releases. In short, through all the things NGOs have also said to the government that it has done nothing in the field of public passenger transport. This is not a criticism, it is only a suggestion that things in this area improve and, as I said, that this is further financed, that this money can then be used to establish this system. So, Your Honor, I suggest we support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u154	Thank you very much. All the applicants you wanted to discuss got your word. However, since the time for discussion has not yet run out, I am asking, on the basis of Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, whether anyone else would like to discuss it. Two, no one else. Here you go, Mr. Webber, you have the floor. They both have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u155	Thank you. Well, I'm gonna need less. I just wanted to give an explanation to Mr Verlic about the amendment you tabled to update the Grosuplje-Kočev line. The Government's explanation stated that the amendment was not necessary because the funds were already provided in the budget at the level proposed by the amendment. That was the reason you refused. Today, however, I think we can see that this line is being built, and we really need to insist that it continues to reach Ribnica as well as Kočev and that this is one of the opportunities that I hope we will then, together with Grosuplje and Ljubljana, will be able to resolve in this railway connection also by establishing suburban rail passenger transport, which would also link Grosuplje and Ljubljana with the help of the train, and thus allow for a really very large flow of traffic and actually reduce travel time in public passenger transport, both bus and rail. I therefore think that this joint effort will still be necessary in the future in order for this route to be achieved to a greater extent than it was originally set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u156	Mr. Marinic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that again. When we talk about the integration of public passenger transport, we must urgently share certain powers of individual power centres mainly in Ljubljana, not so much in Maribor, although the content of this law deals mainly with the city of Ljubljana and the city of Maribor as regards the organisation of public passenger transport. We are neither Venice nor the Netherlands, where other modes of transport could be involved, are mainly bus and rail transport. I say that at the main point of integration between bus and rail carriers, we are nowhere near where we should be. It is quite amazing that the Slovenian railways that took the project shortly after or when Marijan Rekar, the Director-General, was among them, I do not know now how many, five or six. That's when this idea came up. It is said that we are not considering anything new, but I am trying to stress how far away we are from the real problem that could be solved very quickly if there were no direct or direct influences of the power centres that decide in the background of politics. This is why we have not taken a step forward in the integration of public passenger transport. And as long as it is, of course, it's not expected. I am pleased that the Secretary of State, Dr Jakomin, has shown the draft of this bill. You know, I get the feeling like you're teasing us with this because it wasn't the first time. I would be happy to see this content chewed up by those who now hold these lobbies in their hands. These properties of bus carriers, for example in Ljubljana, do not favour this integration of public passenger transport. This is a company that sees its interests! There is no public interest to be expected here because there is another interest that is stronger than public interest! That is why I said earlier that we who decide on this should be aware that this is a problem that we could solve here and very soon if we had a real interest in making this problem an end. Maybe a word or two about how they have it in Austria. I'm going to point Austria out again because in one of the cities in Austria, they have it so arranged, so beautifully "slept" that it's something amazing. You have a ticket, you use a train, you use a bus, you go to a movie, you go to the theater, you press the same ticket with the same chip. That's something wonderful! We have a different interest: now this lobby has to earn something and will introduce a ticket or a chip that will bring him so much and so much commission. And we've got someone else who's gonna have another card that brings something back to him in a transaction account. But look, colleagues and colleagues, it's state money! It's state money! And the amazing beauty of some is to draw as much of this money as possible and not to wonder how public interest is represented here. And the integration of public passenger transport in this small Republic of Slovenia can be resolved relatively quickly, could be an example and an example to some European countries, how do we know how we can do this, but of course we should take the notion abstractly that in the Republic of Slovenia in this area is still its own, personal interest over the public interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-19-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u158	I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday, 23 in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. 11. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. And we're moving on to 13. Agenda item – This is on the proposal for an act on the ratification of the Protocol on the amendment of the Protocol on the transitional arrangements annexed to the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Community for Atomic Energy. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. No amendments were adopted by the parent working body during the second reading and therefore no amendments could be tabled at the meeting. The decision on the bill will be made on Tuesday, 23. 11. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I interrupt the 22nd meeting of the convention, which we will continue on Tuesday, 23. 11 o'clock. Goodbye.
