ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 14th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 57 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Melita Župevc, Flower Zalokar Orazem, Villa Rezman, Matjaž Zanoškar and Milenko Ziherl. I invited the President of the Republic of Slovenia to the 24th item of the agenda, the President of the Government, the Minister and Ministers, the Secretary-General of the Government to the 1st item of the agenda, and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 19 February 2010. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for enlargement and withdrawal of the agenda. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure, the Group of 25 Members and Members proposed that the National Assembly decide on the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider, following a reduced procedure, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Membership of the Republic of Slovenia in the International Monetary Fund. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, that request will be treated by the assembly as 32A. See agenda item on Tuesday 2. 3. 2010, after the final vote. Under the 25th item of the agenda of this meeting, the Act determining the parliamentary investigation of the Slovenian weekly and Express free of charge is provided for. On the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the proposers are a request to order a parliamentary inquiry 25. 2. In accordance with this Supplement, the title of the 25th item of agenda of the 14th meeting shall read as follows: The act authorising a parliamentary inquiry to determine and assess the actual situation with regard to the establishment of issuers, the issuance and financing of the free weeks of the Slovenian Week and the Express, in view of the suspicion that they have been issued with a view to influencing the voters in the 2008 elections, in favour of the political parties of the then ruling coalition or because of suspicion that they are involved in a covert campaign or financing of political parties. We are moving on to the agenda. Members and Members of Parliament, please check the functioning of your voting apparatus. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have accepted with reference. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 14th meeting of the National Assembly is set. I am adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with questions from Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u2	Dear colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! Honorable representatives of the government. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received, within the deadline of business, written submissions from 44 Members of Parliament. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers and the Secretary-General of the Government shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič apologized for today. You have received a review of the questions sent to you, which were not answered within the deadline of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The question of the emissary will first be posed by the mag. Radovan Žerjav, Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Honourable President of the Government. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that Slovenia is a state of law and that individual acts and acts of state authorities must be based on law or legal regulation. Article 120 of the second paragraph further provides that the administrative authorities shall carry out their work independently, within the framework and on the basis of the Constitution and laws. Several Supreme Court judges, for example, Decision XIPS 1617/2005 states, inter alia, that: "Article 64, paragraph 4, of the Administrative Dispute Act provides that in the new determination, the administrative authority is bound by the court's legal opinion, the application of substantive law and its views on the proceedings. However, at the discretion of the Supreme Court, the administrative authority responsible for the decision shall have the possibility to decide in contravention of the legal opinion and the views of the Court of First Instance if it has reasonable grounds for doing so. This is in particular a respect for the principle of legality under which the Authority must decide on the basis of the Constitution, the laws in force and other provisions, which it must explain specifically in explanation of the new decision. That is also confirmed by the provision of Article 65, paragraph 2, of the Administrative Dispute Act, which gives the court a decision in an administrative dispute to decide the matter even if the administrative authority decides in a new procedure contrary to the already expressed opinion and position of the court." End of quote. In view of the indisputable facts described above, how do you comment on the argument of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dr Milan Pogačnik, that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, in the event of the return of the Bulmastifs, had to follow the instructions of the Administrative Court unconditionally? Dear Prime Minister, I also ask you: How would you personally decide in a hypothetical case when you should decide whether to comply with the law or in accordance with the decision and instructions of the court, which would clearly be based on misapplication of material law? You repeatedly repeat that, as Prime Minister of the Government, you need to focus on measures to get out of the crisis and help the economy. That's right. But one of the fundamental conditions for helping the Slovenian economy is first to ensure legality and equality before the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u5	Dear Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Good afternoon. Before answering the first question, before I turn to the prepared answer that helped me to form a justice ministry, let me say a few political points at the edge of this question. First, if I could go back to the time today, the day after the tragedy, when the Minister offered me a resignation, if I thought I could achieve some political peace and I could deal with other issues, I would, again, as today, decide not to. I think that this might save some criticism from the public or the opposition or the profession, but we would not clarify what went wrong in this case and what and how we need to do in the future so that such a tragedy does not happen again. So, I think I made the right decision when I insisted that the Minister remain in this position and explain all the circumstances that led to this tragedy. The Minister will also respond to the interpellation that has been tabled. The Government has already drafted the text and will be dealt with briefly by the National Assembly. If and to the extent that any of you think that this response needs to be accompanied by the information of any authority for which we can legally request it, the Government will do its utmost to have all the relevant information at your disposal. We need to clarify whether, when and how someone may have done wrong, whether there has been a tragedy or whether there is a tragedy and perhaps someone who is not directly or objectively responsible for it. But we need to find out the facts. First the facts and then we will assess whether someone is politically objectively responsible or not. It is a matter of the conduct of the Minister, of his services, of the conduct of the defence, of the question which you raise, honourable Member, of respect for the laws in this case. The competent authority within the Ministry of Agriculture respected the court’s decision. And you think you should do something different, so I understand from your question, and change the court's decision and act on your judgment. I don't know the circumstances in which the court ruled as it is, and I don't want to comment on the court's decision, and I'm not going to answer your question about how it would be done in this case, because I find this inappropriate. I do not know why the court so ruled, and I do not know on what other assumptions the competent official in the Ministry should conclude otherwise. I am telling you, without now reading what has been properly prepared for me at the Ministry of Justice. So, I believe that the Ministry has taken account of the decision, the legislative decision of the Administrative Court, that, as the Minister will later explain in the debate here in the National Assembly, there was no reason for the administration to decide otherwise. The other circumstances that would have led her to this were not known. Once again, I assure you, honourable Member, that the Government, once again, will make clear all the circumstances of the tragedy, so that this tragedy does not happen again, make available exactly all the information it can provide under law. All the reports he has to prepare within his powers to make it clear to all of us what, why this has happened so that it will never happen again.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u6	Hey, buddy, you want me to fill out the answer? Please, mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u7	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! I'm surprised at your answer, especially because of the part where you said you weren't familiar with the case. So, practically after more than three weeks of thorough public debate, and otherwise, I am really surprised that you are not sufficiently familiar with this case so that you can act accordingly. I get the feeling you want to run away from responsibility before you make any moves. That's how we get the feeling. And you should know what happened. And not that we're saying it was right. I read to you the case of the Supreme Court. There are many who claim the same. It's very clear. And there's something else I want to say. In the Slovenian People's Party, we don't protect anyone, we don't protect him, and this time we don't protect him. We were very clear last summer when we warned of irregularities when many laughed at us. We were very clear this time. We didn't protect anyone while some of them practically disappeared and were nowhere to be found. And just as we have not protected anyone, so should you, honourable Mr President. We should know whether there is a need to adhere to laws in this country; in short, all of us who are here must adhere to the laws, the laws adopted by the National Assembly, or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u8	Please, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u9	First of all, I suggest that we agree on at least one thing, even though staying with each other will not do any harm. One thing is, we're trying to clear up all the circumstances of this tragedy. If the Minister's resignation were to be accepted, I would probably be satisfied with a desire to establish a catharsis, and I didn't want that to happen. I wanted all the circumstances investigated. And as I have provided to this high assembly, he will have all the information concerning these circumstances. The Minister is obliged to present them to the public. When you note, I now have to read that there will be no misunderstandings and wrong impression that I wish to excite your question when you find that the administrative authorities carry out their work independently, within the framework and on the basis of the Constitution and laws, it is also appropriate to point out that, in accordance with the Law on the Courts, every natural or legal person must respect the judicial judgment and the provision that the decisions of the judiciary bind the courts and all other state bodies in the Republic of Slovenia. This is the answer to the question of legality. Mr Member, there will soon be a debate in the National Assembly on the Minister's response to interpellation, until then as President of the Government and the Minister will do everything to clarify all the circumstances that have led to the decisions of the competent authorities and we will try to explain what has actually happened, as we have said, in order to find out, as we have concluded at the last meeting of the Government, whether all the rules we have are in possession of are good rules, without changing the legislation now because of this tragedy, because it usually does not prove to be a good practice, but to draw some lessons from this tragedy in order to examine possible legislative changes if we find that there is some confusion that has led to this tragedy. In short, the government will do everything to arrive at the end of the discussion on the Minister's response to the interpretation, to clarify all the circumstances, and together we will be able to determine whether the Minister is responsible objectively for the circumstances. I am not only interested in this question, but I am also interested in whether someone has done wrong within the ministry, whether he has been under any pressure, or whether he has acted differently for other biased reasons than he should. All of this will be found in the response and discussion that will take place here. Do not let the public think that we are trying to hide anything in this tragedy because any of us or our associates should have any special, personal, client or other interest in this story. The only interest is that the story ends in a dignified manner with the findings of the circumstances of this tragedy and, as it is said, that we do everything we can not do again.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The question of question to Prime Minister Borut Pahor will be posed by Victory Jelinčič Plemeniti - Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is known that a sort of Croatian-Slovenian meeting is being prepared in Brdo between Mrs Kosorje and you, Mr President. We are supposed to talk about the issue of Slovenia and Croatia, and ultimately wider. I don't know, Europe isn't exactly excited about this meeting, because the Spanish Presidency says it intends to prepare this conference sometime in late May or early June. As I personally believe, at my request, the Spanish representative of last December in Paris also responded to the regular meeting of the European Defence and Security Assembly. And yet I wonder: What are you going to base this conference on? After all, it is important to be aware of what Croats judge about their national space. Here is a book published in Zagreb in 1946, where it is quoted as saying by Mr. Macek Slavku Kvaternik and distributed to the people on 10 April 1941. I'll read in the original: "Croatian peoples! Colonel Slavko Kvaternik, leader of the nationalist movement in the country, declared today a free and independent Croatian state in the entire historical and geographical area of Croatia, and took power." The translation, I mean, is not necessary, because you also get along well with Mrs Kosorje. But what's the point? The whole national area of Croatia is being discussed. And here I have a list of the names of the place in the independent State of Croatia. In 1942, a book was published in which there is not a single Istrian place, town or house. Which means that Croatia has never had Istria as part of their country. It is said that you intend to open the question of the Balkans. I don't know how you're going to open up the Balkans issue when your people in your government don't know anything about these historical facts. I think it would make sense for you to at least show these two books to read something. You don't have to do everything. The case came out at Kluwer Law International in The Hague. And it's beautifully written, and all the documents relating to Yugoslavia are filed and written in. I'm asking you: What does your government even think about Croatia-Slovenia? What are your intentions? Are you going to protect Slovenian national territory or are you going to leave this to some European Union in which everyone is supposed to be equal, equal, of course, one more and the other less? In this case Croatia is absolutely more and Slovenians are somehow in a subordinate position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u13	After the Constitutional Court has answered the questions raised by the Government regarding constitutionality on the proposal for an arbitration agreement, this proposal will also be referred to the National Assembly before ratification and will be discussed further. What is important in this arbitration agreement is essentially a communication or principle of justice, not only does Article 3 instruct the court to determine the contact of the Slovenian territorial sea with international waters, but it points out that in the final decision the court must take into account all relevant circumstances. This is important because we will have the opportunity in our laboratory, which we will hand over to the Court to explain all the historical circumstances on which we expect a favourable ruling from the Court of Arbitration. I would like to assess that the arbitration agreement signed with the President of the Croatian Government in Stockholm on 4 November was a major success for Slovenia. In similar circumstances, I do not think we could have reached a similar agreement under different circumstances. To take advantage of a small open window of opportunity and to achieve what is most important and beneficial for Slovenian national interests. At the end, however, Members and Members and perhaps people, our citizens and citizens will decide on this at the referendum. I am convinced that this is an agreement that protects our national interests. I think that we have chosen all that we have gathered in the agreement, which is important for making the starting points for the final statement of the arbitral tribunal favourable to us. So that we can be satisfied with this agreement. Initially, you said that we are preparing a conference on the Western Balkans and that there is a dilemma in the EU on this. Here before this high assembly, I would like to remove all suspicion that the European Union has a shared position on this issue. Everyone welcomes the conference. I spoke personally about this with the President of the Spanish Government, who is the President of the European Council. I have spoken with the President of the European Council, who will also come here, along with the Enlargement Commissioner. The President of the European Council will also speak at the conference. Europe welcomes this meeting. The fact is, then, at the end of May or June, Sarajevo will try to continue the so-called butmir process, which at first failed. The fact that leaders of all Western Balkan countries, including the President of the Albanian Government, will be gathered here, is important because it shows that there is a political will for the Western Balkans to show why its inclusion in the European Union is important for the security, stability and prosperity not only of this part of Europe, but of the whole of the European Union. Slovenia has been given a great opportunity to demonstrate its responsibility and ability in organising this conference to help us continue the enlargement process that is important to us and to help this part of Europe, not least the wider region of South-Eastern Europe and the European Union, by including these countries gradually to unite Europe, which has always been our goal in some way. I believe that we have achieved what could be achieved by an arbitration agreement, that we could not achieve better and that in that extremely short time we have seen and taken advantage of the open window of opportunity. The average date is 25. 6. 1991, what we've always wanted. The principle of fairness is also described, which allows us, Mr Member, to take account of all relevant historical circumstances, including those mentioned by you. It is the responsibility of the Slovenian Government to prepare all the necessary documents in preparation for the Memorandum or the Laboratorate, we will be grateful for the help you are providing us with in the Eliberate or in this Memorandum to inform the court of our views on what would be a fair border in the given circumstances.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, victory, noble deer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you very much. As far as the arbitration agreement is concerned, it's bad. That's an indisputable fact. And it also shows the purpose of this conference is no different than the enlargement of Europe, which does not mean the protection of Slovenian national territory. If we are to do anything, we must hold a peace conference and not say that the peace conference has already been held. Indeed, the peace conference was held in The Hague in September 1991, but it is interesting that this is the only peace conference in the world that resulted in the conflicts in the Balkans. This is what the war is called after this so-called peace conference, which means they haven't achieved anything. Even this Draft Convention of 4 November 1991 brought nothing, because there were springs where they were supposed to do something and they did nothing. It is therefore reasonable to base this on other grounds. I don't think we can allow you to actually deny and avoid all the facts that are not your own or the extent to which Mrs Kosor from the neighbouring country has set you. I think it would make sense, Mr President, to give a task to your people, competent people from certain ministries, to learn to read some books and learn something to draw from these books, but not to, as some in your immediate circle say, give a "command" that people have to spit on all those who attack Mrs Kresal. At least that's how I found out from your neighborhood. I think it makes sense to protect Slovenian national interests, because otherwise we will achieve absolutely nothing. You may find it funny, I think some things are tragic and I think that even the Slovenian people seem very tragic, so please, Mr President, a little more serious about the matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u17	As history from a distance observes the time we are now living and our decisions in it, I am sure that, on at least one issue, when it comes to really strategic decisions by the Government, it will be considered a good decision to sign this agreement. I think that this was first a breakthrough in the accumulation of one conflict between Slovenia and Croatia, which has become unpredictable in its dimensions, could eventually be security. This is so much more so for the rest of the Western Balkans and the signal we sent with this signature was also a signal of some optimism that is well seen today and contributes to a few more people's faith and confidence in the Western Balkans, so that very difficult issues can be settled peacefully. The question of the border, the question of open borders in the Balkans is in itself enough reason to be concerned by the international community, not by other issues that have already led to conflicts in history and not least by wars. So at the right time Slovenia made a real move for itself, for neighbouring Croatia, for the region and for Europe and the international community. We have strengthened our reputation, we have achieved what is necessary to safeguard our interests, and we have not threatened the interests of others. But as it is said, this will be the subject of a democratic debate in the National Assembly and it is likely that our citizens and citizens will decide on it. Once again, I would like to assure you that Minister Žbogar and everyone else have a clear instruction from me that they are prompt to prepare all the necessary documents for the purpose of the memorandum if we decide that the arbitration agreement for Slovenia is acceptable. This process is underway. I will be grateful to anyone who will help create this document. It is both professional and lay public, which can help us in this and also your advice and some guidance, colleague Jelinčič, are welcome for us. For this example, Slovenia will prepare well and I am confident that there will be a solution with which we can live peacefully and that it is a solution that is not the least historically just solution. We've certainly created opportunities for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u18	Thank you very much. You want a procedure? Please, victory, noble deer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I'll explain the matter. Indeed, we have done everything for Europe, Croatia, Bosnia, I do not know who else, but we have done nothing for our own country. This is what's wrong, and here history will beat us and hit us. 1860, 1866 we lost Furlania-Julia Krajina. 1920 we lost Koroška, 1945 we lost Istria, three islands and a large part of Međimurje. In 2010, we will lose additional parts of Slovenian territory instead of getting these things back on the basis of international state law, on which the whole of Europe is based. This is an option, but it is only necessary to use the mind, which is in Slovenian policy for one stroke only if we gather it all together. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. Croats have a great saying, "Belief-indulgent joy." I fear, Mr President, that this will happen to us. You believe they'll fuck you in the end. Exactly like the Southerners do all the time, all the history. Take John the Fortress and check his case, and you'll see what happened back then. And things repeat as if he copied that time just today, only the technological means are different. I don't think it's enough to go that way, and we promise here or we listen to promises. This is why, Mr President, I would like to vote, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, to open a debate in the National Assembly, where we can also talk about this, and above all where it will be the time for me to explain to your saving lawyers in the Government what state law means, because they do not know what the countries are, what the countries of origin are, what the Crown Lands are and where this thread goes? Why did the Italians draw a single Primorska, a single Primorska in one piece and put it in their textbooks and the school ministry? Because they are aware of state and state continuity, which they do not know about. In our law schools, it doesn't learn and it won't be for long until we replace more or less of the entire staff, so we have lawyers who can reach the Slovenian border, and don't cross God. Because they're already in Austrian one from Celovac, according to the local word "satellite takes". I don't think we should allow such matters to happen, and so please, Mr President, let's open the debate and put the documents on the table. I have a lot of them, maybe even some ones the Ministry doesn't have, and it would be really good if we talked about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Jelinčič, I must remind you of the expressions you have used and I ask you not to do so again. If I understand correctly, you're suggesting that he's responding because you didn't make that very clear, so that's what you're suggesting. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u21	Mr President, I have made it clear that I am asking for a debate, a vote on how to hold a debate in the National Assembly, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, second paragraph. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you very much. On the proposal by the President of the Government to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the President to his question, Mr Yelinčič Trimenite, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 2 March 2010, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, will be raised by Zvonko Černač, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u23	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! A bad month ago, in this assembly, we discussed the so-called exit strategy prepared by your government. We lacked concrete measures and a timeline for their implementation. We miss them today, too. At today's meeting, this week's session, there is not a single government law related to the implementation of the exit strategy. In a year, Slovenia fell deeply. Deepest relative to the euro area. We lost almost a tenth of what we created a year ago. Many jobs were lost, unemployment almost doubled. After a year, the result of the European Union's development from previous years has been eradicated and today, according to some indicators, we are in 2004 and, for some, we are significantly lower. Last year, your government increased Slovenia's debt of €6 billion by €300 million, together with the guarantees issued. The data is particularly worrying because the government is mainly responsible for spending and not for investment. Slovenia has fallen so deeply in a year also because your government has not dealt with two fundamental problems quickly and effectively. The release of the so-called credit crunch and the acceleration of state and local investments in connection with the use of European funds for these purposes. Nevertheless, the doors for some privileged were wide open. How else can it be understood that at a time when many prospective companies had to forgive, some have even agreed to bankruptcy, those with low added value and those investments that have no direct link by creating new jobs and increasing added value? As an example, let me mention one of the largest, if not the largest, investment in this country, this is the construction of the stadium in Stožice. So at the time of the biggest crisis, at the worst credit crunch, this is the biggest investment in this country. Dear Prime Minister, I therefore ask you: Is the construction of the stadium really the most important investment in the framework of the exit strategy? I also want to know: Will the state bank - Nova Ljubljanska Banka, when it requires a substantial recapitalisation of around EUR 300 million, and when small and medium-sized enterprises do not receive credits for start-up, for new jobs, for creating new added value, will this bank therefore credit or possibly already credit Janković's stadium at the Cologne? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u25	First of all, as you yourself have mentioned, this High Council dealt with the so-called exit strategy less than a month ago, and Slovenia has, in some ways, adopted this strategy by the Government and introduced it to the National Assembly, among those rare European countries that are already implementing their plans in relation to time after the end of the recession, and in economic circumstances where we expect a low rate in the next two, three years. First of all, I would like to say here, for one bit of optimism, not excessively, the latest results of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. After this terrible fall of gross domestic product, such falls were recorded by other countries, those that were less prepared for the crisis, slightly more, and among them was our country. We are now removing these structural reasons for this fall. Slovenia is, however, in a state where it can now announce a slow but reliable recovery of the economy. Otherwise, it's not very fast, and we didn't expect it to be. At this point it is quarterly at 0.1%, indicating that we are still quite dependent on international circumstances, of course, we will continue to do so, but by measures as far as we can take them alone, but these circumstances, at least as far as our domestic circumstances are concerned, are now easier and more effectively regulated than we were a year or a half ago. Once again, because you keep saying things over and over again, so do I. The decline in economic activity, the deep decline in GDP, did not begin in 2009. It started in the last quarter of 2008. And I said in my inaugural speech, not because of the guilt of the former authorities, but because of the worst collapse of the world economy after II. World War II. Look at the economic and social indicators of other countries. Slovenia is recovering slowly, gradually, but we are going from a severe fall to a relapse. They are indicators that point to the strengthening of some economic optimism that is important in Slovenia. Let us not be complacent. Let us not be rash. Let us not promise something that is not possible, but Slovenia is returning to the path of economic recovery and we are among the countries that, in addition to short-term measures, and this is now the answer to your question, we also accept structural adjustments. The government has adopted a timetable of 26 and 27 laws, I am talking only about laws, I am not talking about measures or sub-legislative acts that must be adopted in order to address at structural level the reasons that Slovenia has done so depending on the international economic circumstances to which it was exposed in the course of the economic crisis of 2008. Of course, Slovenia will continue as an open and small economy, always open and in some way depend on these circumstances. We live in a global space. But we have to anchor some of our development anchors somewhere else. You're talking about low value-added companies. They will not compete in the long term. We are with laws that protect the interests of employees above all, that they have not borne the main burden of this crisis, even if they have become temporarily unemployed or unemployed, that this is not permanent, but that the Government will try to do everything to get back to the jobs of higher added value. Last but not least, we are preparing a national conference on innovation, on investment. We must decide, within the task we have, where and how much to invest, to reduce the deficit, honourable Member. That's not true. The stadium is the biggest investment. Finally, here are the budget lines that talk about investments in transport infrastructure, railways, completion of Darsa and other investments. Please, I think we have to admit something that we all do well together. And that is that after one year of emergency crisis, however, we are beginning to regulate the circumstances in our favour, to slowly but reliably recover, and that there is a chance that we can join the countries that will recover as quickly and as successfully as possible. This option exists, and the Government will do everything in its power to take decisions in a timely manner. That is why we have also set up a traffic light that obliges us to make timely decisions on the whole front of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u27	However, I did not get a direct reply from the President of the Government, but I have received a central response that the construction of this stadium, financed by NLB's money, is one of the most important investments being made in the framework of the exit strategy. Why did I ask that question? I have put it up because your government has removed 13 of the 35 projects in the resolution on national development projects in the framework of the exit strategy, including a project on building a network of state roads on development axes, which is not just an infrastructure project but also a development project. Drawing means preventing the possibility of appropriate infrastructure connections between Koroška, White landscape, Fishing and Boneland, Posavje, Zasavje, North Primorska and thus also removing the possibility for their faster development. The deletion of five of the nine economic centres in the least developed regions is proposed for projects that would help create new jobs. Without new jobs, respected Prime Minister of the Government, there will be no increased inflows to the state treasury and no exit strategy will come out. So I'm wondering: Is this change definitive? Are these projects definitively deleted? On the other hand, it is clear that the State bank provides funding for a project that does not constitute a higher added value. The stadium project does not significantly increase employment, it means investing in walls, investing in bread and games. People don't need games, but they need work and decent pay. The Stožice Stadium is thus primarily a dear monument to Mayor Jankovic, and it is built on the shoulders of workers working in impossible, almost slave conditions. That's why I ask you, Mr. President of the Government, once again: Is the stadium really the most important investment in the framework of the exit strategy at the time of the removal of state development projects, some of which I mentioned earlier? And: Do taxpayers really have to pay it through the recapitalisation of the state bank and thereby the rehabilitation of bad investments? I think that this is wrong and that we would expect concrete action from the strategy already at this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u28	Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thus, the construction of the stadium was not decided by this congregation or by the government, but by the competent city authorities. As it is said, this is also not the biggest investment in Slovenia, only for motorways will we spend half a billion, in the coming years for railways, if we so conclude, 1.6 billion, but since I have been on the railways today, I would not like to let go of some of the excitement that I am coming from this meeting about the decisions that will be taken before this high assembly when it comes to modernising rail transport, freight and passenger transport. Once again, I want to assure you that we have a timeline. This timer is only about one reason. It is approximate because we must also take into account the framework of social dialogue. If we were to write the exact time stamp, we would first intervene in the jurisdiction of this high assembly, and the laws are passed here. Another time. They would not take into account the dimension of social dialogue. I believe that the expected business deadline is possible and written down in real terms and that we will follow. Laws will soon come on the agenda, and very soon the National Assembly will have to decide on very difficult laws. The Health Activity Act, which may be adopted by the Government, will launch substantive discussions at the next meeting on Thursday on the start of the reform of the health system. There is a pension reform or modernisation of the pension system and a whole series of other laws that will constitute fundamental changes; public institutions, etc. Don't worry, it's going to be a lot of work for everyone, it just has to be done with some determination and with the clear goals that lie ahead. In doing so, we must bear in mind that we must deal with taxpayers' money in a reasonable, cost-effective, transparent, efficient manner, without increasing public debt. That is why we need to achieve great effects with small money. I think that the government has made decisions so far, which are in this sense and has not taken what you are talking about, this is about deleting some development axis, let's say a third. This decision has not been taken by the Government, Mr Member. If I have this privilege to inform you of this, I will do so today with the greatest pleasure. This decision has not been taken by the Government. It's debated, but she didn't make that decision. When we were in White Krajina, in Kočevska we heard of the problems this part of our country faces by looking at economists, politicians from that end. It would be clear that some of the words here don't depend on what I heard the criticism of your kind before, but on what you did. On Friday, the Development World of the Government for the White Landscape, Kočevsko and Ribniška will meet. We're going to set up a development world. We will discuss what concrete measures are needed to push this part of Slovenia forward as we try, I will say, the developmental push forward of Prekmurje and the government will continue to visit.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, you have a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u31	On the basis of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that this answer be discussed in the National Assembly because I do not know who to trust. Should I believe the official minutes of the government meeting, where, in the context of the examination of the exit strategy, 13 development projects since 35 have been proposed, or should I believe these words now? In any case, it is best to make sure of this in the context of the debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly. This debate is also important, among other things, because we have not heard a single concrete project from the exit strategy today, one concrete project that would have been implemented or would have been at the start of implementation. It remains that the only major project in this country under the exit strategy is currently the construction of the stadium in Stožice. We also do not have any law in this session today, nor in this session, nor in the forecast for a meeting to be held at the end of March, which would be the implementation of the exit strategy, nor any law. I think that the debate is also necessary because it is questions that are development-related in the Republic of Slovenia and also because the New Ljubljana Bank, as we have heard before, is expected to recapitalise with state money. Hence, taxpayers will pay not only old but also new imported investments or monuments. Such investments will also increase the country's indebtedness, which dangerously brings us closer to the Greek scenario. The January data published today are alarming. Tax revenues this January 13.3% lower than in January last year. Interim spending for a third is higher, according to the bureaucracy sector there is no savings. Last January, the surplus was 6.6 million in the balance sheet, this year's 220 million minus. These trends suggest that Slovenia is at the end of the year at EUR 5 billion 500 million in deficit. Dear Prime Minister, this brings us closer to the Greek script very quickly. For this reason, I think that this debate is absolutely necessary because it is becoming increasingly obvious that the exit strategy will be another document that will remain only on paper. A document that, like the stadium, is supposed to give people games, and they're going to have to take care of their own bread. And that's it. You mentioned a government traffic light, or magnetic table, that could show a completely green situation over a period of time. However, I fear that in life some of the effects of these measures will not, unfortunately, be visible. I estimate that, in view of these forecasts that we are witnessing to them in these days, in recent weeks the only forecast to come true is a forecast of this additional debt, which brings us very quickly and very dangerously closer to the Greek scenario. It might be useful, therefore, to add a debt counter to this country’s debt, in addition to that magnetic board that you have placed somewhere in the government palace. If you link it to the windshield, then, given the wind speed of this windshield in the government palace, it will certainly not be necessary to have a lighted climate and we will detect at least one concrete effect of the exit strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Zvonk Černač to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 2 March 2010, in the framework of the vote. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be raised by Bojan Kontic, Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello, Prime Minister, ministers and ministers. Although I do not know how to ask the question of the Member that it will be reconciled with the first three and at least about as unkind as the first three. But it's more of a joke than it really is. Well, Mr. Vizjak, I certainly don't expect you to be - not even a culture when someone is talking to keep quiet. [[...]] We have different views on the Balkans and on its importance, which we can already see today. This is, of course, the conclusion that the Western Balkans is not only Croatia, but it is a wider territorial space. A different attitude towards Balkan countries, markets may also have an impact on the depth and scale of the crisis, but it is probably too late for these findings. Despite different views on the importance of the Western Balkans, and despite the fact that some of us have repeatedly stressed this - in recent years, it has not been done enough in this area. Development aid was fragmented, uncoordinated and also untransparent, and the positioning of Slovenian experts and politicians in important regional organisations is not strong enough. In the economic field, however, we missed a time when Slovenia could be a bridge between the European Union and the Western Balkans and that is why other European countries beat us. In recent years, however, Slovenia has managed to place enlargement to the Western Balkans once again high on the European Union's list of priorities, which could strengthen our role in the region. That's why I'm asking the president: How do you see the consolidation of the role of the Republic of Slovenia in the Western Balkans? And: What is the Government going to do, and of course you, as Prime Minister of the Government, to make Slovenia an important and active factor in the Western Balkans? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u35	Because at the beginning of his question, the Member mentioned the expectation of the kindness of critics. No, I, as Prime Minister of the Government, do not expect the kindness of critics, but, as far as possible, the correctness. See, it is no longer statistically possible for anyone to act in all good or in all bad. And if we do not acknowledge ourselves - we, now, as a political representative, speak because here is a high assembly, of course the Government has its powers and the highest responsibilities. Even what we succeed as Slovenians is who will then admit to us that we will do something good within our powers, within yours, within ours, and who will give ourselves some self-esteem and some confidence to overcome great obstacles. Who, if not alone?Oh, my God! So, I expect criticism, I expect different views, I expect a frank conversation, but I also expect that it will ever be realized that we have done all together or within our powers, now one or the other, something good. That it will also be able to be reflected among our people and that we will be giving ourselves something 'corogage' because we need it. We are facing the biggest crisis since World War II, not just us, but I think we are relatively successful. So one of these segments is also to ensure the security of our country, its reputation and its placement in international space as we wish. And part of this strategy is certainly also a strategy towards the Western Balkans. Slovenia is a member of the European Union, a member of the euro area, a member of Schengen. We have no historical objections to the Russian Federation because we were never a member of NATO. We have the ideal conditions to take advantage of all the knowledge, the affections of leading circles in the world, to see us as an attractive partner, political and economic, both. I'm leaving for Sarajevo tomorrow. My visit is aimed in particular at deepening economic cooperation. Over the past year, we have become the biggest investor in Bosnia and Herzegovina. My wish is to consolidate our presence in this country by tomorrow's largest economic delegation. By March 20th, the conference you are mentioning will be followed by a series of meetings of leaders, who will try with me and with the European Council to find out how to speed up reforms and stabilise this area so that it can live normally, with a higher quality of life for people to ease these tensions. Here Slovenia is involved as an actor, we are on a political map and we are concerned about its enforcement or the enforcement of its interests throughout the Western Balkans. So we are a European country, we belong and we want to belong to the most developed part of Europe. At the same time, we are aware of the responsibilities and opportunities that our space gives us to build friendship and deepen cooperation, comprehensively, with the countries with which we once lived and beyond. So we are playing an important political role right now, which we must not overlook. We have an opportunity to prove ourselves to be someone who understands this place, I will say, opportunities, not just problems, and that we will also help solve them. Not to be teaching anyone wisdom or teaching, but to form answers to very difficult questions along with them. It is a crisis, the crisis is not only an economic crisis, it is also a political one, it is also a social one. If and to the extent that we are not solving fundamental issues and border issues in the Balkans, it can be a security sensitive issue. However, we have learned something from history: if and to what extent we are able to resolve these issues, that the peace of our people and the security of our people will also be ensured, I think we have done much for the interests of this country. We are not the only country bordering the Western Balkans, there is Austria, there is Hungary, there is Bulgaria, there is Romania, of course. But it is obvious that Slovenia can, if we want to, if we are willing to take responsibility, maybe give some added value, some excess value to the discussion on the perspective of this space. We have this opportunity and responsibility, European policy welcomes our position, it takes it as an encouraging signal. And let me tell everyone once again, we are not running these policies because of the interests of the third, first and foremost, and because of the interests of our people, who are responsible for providing security, prosperity, justice and so on, of course, also because of the interests of our neighbours and the international community we are part of, and all of this to bring into one harmony to resolve the fundamental issues that provide us with these objectives, is the role of this Government. We don't always do everything right, but we don't do everything wrong. Let us give ourselves encouragement and a little bit of encouragement because we are dealing with very difficult and very crowded issues that have not been resolved so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised not at the 12th and 13th meetings of the assembly. The Minister without a Resource, responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenia around the world, Dr. Boštjan Žekš, will answer two questions, namely, the question of the integration and integration of Slovenian students abroad. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u37	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr President. I am answering Mr Bevek's question, what measures are we planning in the area of cooperation with Slovenian scientists and other experts in place and around the world? The starting point of this issue is perfectly correct and, unfortunately, it is true that Slovenia does not exploit enough knowledge of the people we have sent around the world. There is virtually no link between Slovenian scientists in foreign and domestic universities, domestic institutes. Slovenia cooperates with Slovenians abroad through societies, communicates with individuals through them, financially supports certain actions, but unfortunately scientists and educators, especially those who leave, are not now involved in these societies. So we practically don't have access to them, with classical methods, we don't even know how many they are, we don't even know what they are. That's why we took systematic action at the office, which was supposed to eventually lead to a list that was supposed to be on the Internet, where these experts would be listed, their area of work, their address, their website. All data would be available. We started by getting a preliminary list from the World Slovenian Congress, which deals with organizing various congresses of Slovenian experts, then we wrote to these people if they are willing to cooperate and if they know any other Slovenians around the world who are involved in science. Now we've come after the third or fourth round to about a hundred of the most respected scientists. We're texting each other for another hundred. Everyone agrees to cooperate, everyone has responded, everyone has also expressed their willingness to cooperate with Slovenia in a concrete manner, and also regret that they have not had this opportunity so far. This month we will publish this list on the website, invite everyone, you and the Slovenians abroad, to contribute to the completion of this list, which will never be complete. But then the question comes up. The list will serve to connect scientists themselves abroad, to connect Slovenian scientists abroad and at home. We hope, however, that in some way, at least in some way, they will be returned home by other countries. Hope for a full return due to better working conditions abroad is probably not possible, but they could be asked, asking on what conditions they would transfer 10, 20% of their activities home. This partial return, of course, costs something. I hope that we will be able to get some resources to make this possible. Of course, universities or even the economy could include them according to their specifics and their knowledge on a personal level. This is the first step in this direction, and we should talk about others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u38	Mr. Bevk, would you like to complete your response? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Mr. Minister, Dr. Bostian Zhekša, I thank you for his answer. Although I have already raised this issue at the December meeting of the National Assembly, we have also addressed this issue at the competent working body, at the Commission of the National Assembly on Relations with Slovenians in Substitute and Around the World. I must say that virtually all the parliamentary groups, both the coalitions and the opposition, supported this project. It is very promising that this project has been systematically pursued by this government. Finally, the Minister himself is a scientist and former President of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts. The response is very promising and good, as I have now heard from these latest data. Although some statistics show that at least 10% of all Slovenian researchers operate abroad, of course, assuming that we have 12 000 researchers and scientists in the Republic of Slovenia and 1200 outside Slovenia, so we will have to put some effort into this project. I ask: Did you invite other colleagues to participate in the government, because I think this is also a kind of interdepartmental project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u40	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much for this additional question. There are different numbers, how many Slovenian students are abroad. We have limited ourselves to, say, top, to people who have a doctorate in science, who are professors at universities who have a permanent position, not to doctoral students, postgraduate students who are many more. We have not officially informed our colleagues in the government of the consequences of this project, and we will now do so shortly. This is about all the departments. The Ministry of Higher Education and Science should provide some resources specifically for these returning Slovenians, because otherwise their colleagues here, who receive funds from the State, would not accept them. It is necessary to sign a social agreement with countries such as the United States of America. This means that if someone has a job in the United States and wants to return temporarily to Slovenia, I would like to conclude that this counts for him during his retirement and that kind of thing. This is now the next step we have not yet begun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, Dr Boštjan Žekš will answer Mr Srečko Friend's question about the situation of the Slovenian minority in Hungary. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I also thank Mr Happy Friend for the question, which is current, but which is difficult. His question is: Why such a difference between Slovenians in Hungary and Hungary in Slovenia? Why does the government claim that everything in this area is well arranged? For me, the second part of the question is easier because I think the government does not claim that everything in this area is well arranged. For in life all things are not well - arranged, nor are they done at home. As for the Slovenians in Hungary, I must stress that the situation is not easy, it is not pink, but, in my opinion, it is improving. I would avoid the formulations used in the question that the situation is catastrophically bad, that people live on the edge of an existing minimum. They live badly, but they survive. I would not agree that this is a violation of human rights. It should be borne in mind that this part of the area where Slovenians live is the poor part of Hungary, which is on average poorer than Slovenia. On average, therefore, there is a large difference in living standards in this part of Hungary and Slovenia. That's why it shocks us when we get there. But it must be realized that there is no discrimination. Hungarians in this area, according to my knowledge, live just as hard and as bad as Slovenians. Therefore, I would not use the word violation of human rights. But things are improving slowly. Just after the last meeting of the Slovenian-Hungarian Mixed Commission to monitor this issue, which was held on 17 November 2009, there was little progress. Some roads, which have been promised for years and years, have now finally come to the point that state resources have been assured that they have slowly begun to buy land. That doesn't mean she'll be ready right away, but it means some movement in the right direction. The number of translations and textbooks for bilingual schools increased, and last year the school in Štjevanovci resumed. But I think that's the key. Here we have poor areas, relatively poor areas on both sides of the border and only European projects could raise living standards and economic performance in these areas. Here it must be said that the Slovenian minority in Hungary is involved in three cross-border European projects, with one being the main carrier partner, with the other being involved. Projects concern cultural cooperation, other media, third agriculture. I think this is the beginning of some serious work. Recently there has been a new problem, a reduction of the programme in the Slovenian language in Hungary. We protested with the Hungarian government. For the time being, there seems to be a misunderstanding between the paying government and the television that decides where it will put it. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We insist that these are repairs. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u44	Mr. Friend, would you like to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, thank you, Mr. Secretary, for waiting for this answer. I've been waiting for him for months. Infringement of human rights, you say it's undetectable. What else is there to say about the fact that children in kindergartens had recently eaten from those military miniskirts? The Commission for Foreigners has visited this area around the world. When we look at the Slovenian school, which is supposed to be Slovenian, it is not because only one teacher there knows Slovenian, we see equipment donated from Slovenian schools, spent equipment. However, when we talk about how much Slovenia has paid for education, we can see this year that it was for Hungarian education, which is bilingual, as well as documents that all receive bilingual - they can only dream about it - but only this year we gave 10 million euros for education. Comparability in amounts cannot be compared. After 20 million ladies in Slovenia for the needs of the Hungarian community, 44 and over 40 journalists work to cover this minority on national television. The books are printed, they have professional assistance, they also have educators who advise on how to use Hungarian in Slovenia, the documents are bilingual, while in Hungary we can find that Slovenians do not have bilingual language, they do not have bilingual schools if they are called to live in catastrophically poor conditions, the respected Minister and Government of the Republic of Slovenia, who signed the agreement on a proposal from Hungary, cannot even insist that this proposal be respected by Hungary. Of course, the signed agreement should also apply to Hungary. They themselves excuse themselves that they have a minority too, and that unfortunately due to an excessive Roma question, not to say gypsy, they themselves call it a gypsy question, they cannot provide money to the Slovenian minority. They simply ignore the Slovenians living in Hungary. And that's the question. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u46	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u47	I agree that the situation of Hungarians in Slovenia is different, better than the situation of Slovenians in Hungary. As I was going to say in the beginning, the main reason is that the situation in Slovenia is different from that of Hungary. As far as the numbers are concerned, I'd be afraid of this involvement just like that. If Slovenia gives so much and so much for bilingual education in Prekmurje, this should not only be attributed to Hungary because they go to this school Slovenia and Hungary, and this should be taken into account in one way. There's only two more numbers I'd like to say. In 1991, there were 1900 Slovenes in Hungary. There were 3,040 of them since 2001. Do you think the population has grown so much in an area where the entire population is stagnant? No, no, no. Only a few people claimed to be Slovenians. That's what they say. It's not so bad being a Slovenian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u48	Mr. Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u49	Dear Minister! I believe you're doing well. I've said that a number of times in public. But look, when we're talking about numbers, of course we need to know that we're giving millions, while we don't get the few 100,000 euros from Hungarians that are guaranteed for the Slovenian minority in the agreement. That's what I'm talking about. I also talked about the fact that it is unacceptable that Slovenia in this way disappears in this area, is forced into assimilation and is gradually disappearing. Almost there won't be any Slovenians. We have to think about it. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which allows me to propose a broader debate in the National Assembly in order to protect national interests, I will do so today. And I would like to ask that we open this problem in a comprehensive manner and tell Europe that Slovenia guarantees minority rights in a exemplary way, so that this can also be verified. We were also on the Slovenian side and we saw an RTV studio, we saw their club, which Slovenians in Hungary can only dream about. Another radio that works there, that program was shut down, and I'm not talking about how non-chalant and rude they behaved towards our delegation. They left us waiting for a few hours and then defiantly refused because the agreement on their proposal was signed by Slovenia. It's an eccentric violation of human rights, as I said, so I'm not giving up. And if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does nothing, I will propose that we raise this issue in the European Parliament and in the Council of Europe and protect the Slovenians living in Hungary. I will demand this, and I have this right as a Member. And you can't run away from this problem, Mr. Secretary. It is also absurd that the President of the Government was just before our delegation in Hungary and boasted about how good relations were. They're not good! Relations are humiliating for Slovenia, and we won't let that happen. We will not allow the rights of the Slovenians living in Hungary to be so beaten. We're not gonna let that happen. And if you think this is right because the difference in standard is that, then I can tell you that we will take Hungary, living in Slovenia, and give this money to the Slovenians to ensure at least about a manageable housing and living situation for these Slovenians living in Hungary. That's what I'm going to suggest. We throw millions away so that they don't know how to deal with them, they fight every year because this money remains, and we don't even have a bench, a learning tool. We should see the school, you, reverend minister! Have you seen this school? Did you see that? I saw a better school now in Thailand, there in the Buddhist center, better benches have than our Slovenians in Hungary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u50	On the proposal by Mr Srečko Friends to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Minister Boštjan Žekš, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 2 March 2010, in the framework of the votes. Mr Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, will answer Mr Petr Verlic's question regarding the 2009 tolls collected. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you, Chairman. On the basis of the data obtained for 2009, the figures are as follows. Gross toll revenue is EUR 235,008,219. From this title, about €7 million from the vine and around €27 million from the tolling of freight vehicles. The number of vineyards sold is as follows. Yearly vignettes: 849,672, half-years: 893.226, monthly: 645,609, weekly: 1.380,580. These statistics are not fully complete at this time because the inventory will identify the shortcomings that the sellers will subsequently pay if they are. As regards the issue of the share of the toll collected from foreign users, there is currently no possibility of checking which user is a foreigner and which one is domestic. This is not how this data is available. Although data are available on how many vignettes were sold outside the borders of the Republic of Slovenia, annuals: 32.337, half-years: 301.668 and monthly: 322.107, weekly: 399.421. Nevertheless, there were many vineyards, we believe, sold to foreigners or nationals of other countries in the Republic of Slovenia, so we do not have precise data on the lack of monitoring. There is also no technical possibility of monitoring how many trucks are foreign, how many domestics are currently in relation to the toll collected, because this is not the way to record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u52	Mr. Verlich, would you like to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Minister of Transport. Thank you for those answers. The question was raised precisely because of this dilemma, which was established at the time of the amendment of the vignette regime. The transition from the annual and semi-annual regime, which was applied at more favourable prices. Here I think of those who often use motorways, and this is mainly home users. And in what you, in fact, have attached to the Commissioner for Transport at the time, in terms of discriminating. That is why I hoped that there was some comparison with the number of crossings across the border, or at least that at the Ministry, for example, to find out how it is with the relationship: foreign - domestic, so that everyone could actually figure out what transit means through Slovenia. This would at least give us some kind of information at some level. So I'm asking you, even though I think from the answer I understand that you don't: Do you think that, at least if there are no comparisons with the Ministry of the Interior's data on the number of crossing points, it would be possible to obtain a transit assessment as well as home users? With this, I am sure that we would soon come to what I was asking is that there was no need to change prices. That justifies me so much more now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u54	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u55	If I can agree with you on the possibility that such cross-comparation of data could really lead to more accurate data, then this proposal is welcome and we can do so. But I cannot agree with you that there was no need to replace this system. It was necessary. I have said many times that there are at least two legal opinions that say that a system with only one year and a half of wine was contrary to EU law. All the proceedings were also after we changed the system, which I can honestly tell you, and I personally believe that it was discriminatory, by the European Union. I think it's really so far away that we can pour ourselves some pure wine and implicitly tell yourself in this question of yours that it was more suitable for domestic users and less favourable for foreign users. It's just that the problem of being less attractive was discriminatory. That's the problem. I have already replied to you that in cases like these, there is already a lower level of discrimination. There's no need to prove it. There are judicatures in which the possibility or suspicion is sufficient that such a price may lead to discrimination, which is a much lower standard legally than that the Commission must prove that discrimination has occurred. That's why we'd lose something. That was the problem. That's when things broke down, and that's when we found out. Otherwise, we'd go to justice, but since the legal opinions showed that it didn't make sense, then we decided as I told you. If you want to prepare this cross-reference of data with the entry of personal vehicles into the Republic of Slovenia with the Ministry of the Interior and try to get more accurate data, we will gladly do so. But this, I repeat, will not prove what you want the system not to have to change.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u56	Mr. Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! That's the information you need most. The government would need them most. I really have to say that I'm a little surprised, because as far as I can remember, you didn't see at the beginning any need for the system to change. I think you're more concerned about something else and it's easier to burden those who use highways often. And the easiest thing to do is to raise the toll by 73%, so they're going to buy it anyway, and they're going to eat those who use the highway often, and they're domestic users. Those who are transiting the country would, however, pay for the price of a semi-annual vineyard in proportion to the use of Slovenian motorways. But it's all easier to do what it is. As it also shows, without any real information to enable the European Commissioner and the European Commission on the basis of the data, the arguments suggest that Slovenia is a transit country and that transit in that country must also pay a certain price. You didn't do it. You haven't even presented this information that you say you're ready to prepare now. Of course I'll be very grateful if you do. And here I come to my procedural proposal so that this answer, supported by information, can also have a reasoned debate in the National Assembly. That is why, of course, I also propose that this debate be carried out on the basis of a business arrangement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u58	Mr Verlic's proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's response to his question of transport will be decided by the State Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 2 March, in the framework of the vote. Mr Samuel Žbogar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, will answer Mr Rudolf Petan's question regarding the appointment of the head of the foreign diplomatic consular office in the Republic of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Chairman. The MPs! Mr Petan asked why the United States of America has not had an ambassador in Slovenia for more than a year, and how Slovenian interests are represented, or how this is reflected in the representation of Slovenian interests. First, I would say that relations between Slovenia and the United States of America remain excellent. This was also confirmed by my visit to Washington last year, as well as by the many talks I have with the Secretary of State at the edge of international conferences. Slovenia's interests towards the United States are represented by an embassy in Washington, D.C., which is fully occupied and where we already have a new ambassador this year. It is true that the United States of America has been without an ambassador for over a year. In accordance with the custom in force in the United States, all politically appointed ambassadors must make a declaration of resignation at the time of the new President's appearance. And so the former Ambassador Ghafari left Slovenia on 20 January last year. Because of this long-standing absence of the ambassador, we have opened this issue several times in talks with American interlocutors, both in the State Department and with the Embassy in Ljubljana. The answers we are getting are that there are no political reasons, that these are merely procedural reasons and that this is a long-term process. In the United States, there was also a procedure for a candidate who was interrupted at a later stage and the procedure was reopened, all of which delayed the establishment of the US Ambassador in Ljubljana. As we understand and expect, however, this appointment will take place in a very short time. At the same time, I would just like to mention that Slovenia is not the only country where the United States has no ambassador for a long time. It was not until the beginning of this year that an ambassador was appointed to the European Commission or to the European Union in Brussels, Spain, as President, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Portugal and so on. So it's not something special for Slovenia. It is true, however, that due to procedural complications, the whole procedure was stalled. We draw attention to this absence, even though we work well with the business manager. The American side apologizes and ensures that the appointment will take place in a very short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u60	Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Earlier, the President of the Government told us that we need to make sure that we do something good, that others will admit it to us and that they see us as an attractive partner. I do not think it is good that the United States has not had an ambassador in Ljubljana for one year and that we are obviously doing something that has shown that we are not attractive partners. We had to do something in the past. The change of administration in Washington also applies to other countries. In Croatia, for example, they have an American ambassador in Zagreb. And now that we are negotiating with the Croats to resolve the border issue, they have an American ambassador, and we don't have one. It's not the same business as the ambassador; we're handicapped here. And that clearly sheds a bad light on the United States' attitude towards Slovenia. That's a fact. The fact is also that probably Americans have not forgotten that our President, Dr. Türk, has not appointed a Slovenian ambassador to the United States for more than half a year. They probably didn't forget that. If our president intended to impose this on the previous government, then he was wrong because he is abetting the Republic of Slovenia. Probably didn't forget that famous Washington dispatch in the United States either, when the Balkan war could also be brewed. When Kosovo declared independence and information leaked. Dear Minister, you were then an ambassador to the United States, and you probably know what the responses were to this leak, where Americans were in this role, when information was also presented on their part through some Slovenian networks in public. That something is wrong with Slovenia, that we are not considered an attractive partner, also shows that Sweden closes the embassy in Slovenia and opens it in Côte d'Ivoire and in some countries, and leaves Slovenia. This is said to be the case with the politics of Slovenia at this time. And that's what I wanted to ask you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u62	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u63	None of these reasons are the reason that the ambassador is not here, nor is Sweden shutting down the Embassy in Ljubljana. I agree that it is not good that there is no American ambassador here, that the business is not the same as the ambassador. The Americans themselves ensure that there is no political reason why the ambassador is not here, but that it is indeed procedural complications and the longevity of the procedure. You said there is an ambassador in Croatia, but there are many comparable countries in the European Union where there is no American ambassador. And I've counted these countries before. When the ambassador was appointed in Slovenia, something got complicated within the system and they began the procedure again when they lost several months for their internal procedure. It happens, they apologize, and no broader backgrounds need be searched. We work very well with the United States, very specifically with regard to the Western Balkans, we work very closely together and we are also taking some action together. If there were any concerns on the part of the United States, we would not be involved in very specific matters in the Western Balkans. There's no reason the President of the Republic hasn't appointed an ambassador to Washington for a while. It was just, I mean, six, seven months apart. There is not even a reason for the Washington dispatch, which was forgotten much earlier in Washington than we did here in Slovenia. In that case, it was particularly important for them to ensure or take measures to prevent such transfers from being repeated in the public sphere and then to satisfy themselves with the measures we had taken at the time. Sweden closes the embassy in Slovenia, as it closes in four other countries of the European Union. He has his own concept and thought that within the European Union we meet so often that we have such close contacts at all levels that they want to transfer part of this money to the opening of embassies where they think they need it more or more. Throughout their presence they also help these countries to act on the path of reforms and therefore open an embassy in Moldova, Georgia, Côte d'Ivoire, as you mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u64	Mr Samuel Žbogar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, will answer the question of Mr Petr Verlic regarding the possible passage of international transport corridors across Slovenia. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr Verlič asked about the European transport network or transport routes across Slovenia and, above all, asked the foreign ministry about the activities related to Italy and Austria. Italy is bound by the 6th Corridor of the Trans-European Transport Network. Here he also asked about the statement or, as you wrote down, the opposition of the High Official of the Foreign Ministry to the conclusion of such an agreement. Here's what I'd like to mention. Firstly, the foreign ministry absolutely supports the 6th corridor, which includes Slovenia and under which we also build the 2nd railway track, which will strengthen the work of the port of Koper or the link between the port of Koper and the hinterland. The High Representative of the Foreign Ministry did not oppose this 6th corridor, but expressed more opposition to the possible change of route 6 which could lead to the loss of the importance of Luka Koper. We are very aware of this in the Foreign Ministry and in the Ministry of Transport. Discussions between the Slovenian Transport Ministry and Italy also go this way to preserve the existing route, which has also been approved by the European Commission. And even at the moment when the Commission is preparing certain amendments, the decisions adopted by the European Parliament and the Council on the guidelines for the development of the European rail network will insist that the route of the Sixth Corridor remain as originally set out. With regard to the question concerning the connection between Zagreb, Maribor and Vienna. Of course, there are such interests. In the past, we have seen this interest in Croatia following the rapid link between Zagreb and Vienna through Maribor. This connection is not in the Slovenian interest and we believe that with certain updates of the line on the Slovenian side, in particular with the modernisation of the Dobova - Zidani bridge and reconstructions on the Zidani bridge - Maribor and the new track between Maribor and Šentilje, this link will be carried out without the construction of this track, which would go directly from Maribor via Krapina to Zagreb. We are aware of the importance of transport links, the importance of transport links running across Slovenia. We will work together with the Ministry of Transport in this direction in our efforts and activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u66	Mr. Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, thank you for your reply and, above all, for this encouraging part that the High Representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not mean what was written in the newspaper. In the journal, the statement was such that we could be very concerned about all of this. It was understood from that statement that it objected to exactly the same response as it was between the Italian and Slovenian sides in 2008. I hope you invite him to respond accordingly. From your words here in this National Assembly, I understand that this is not the case, and I would ask that the foreign ministry also somehow communicate this message to the Slovenian public, especially to the international public. And in this sense, I ask you once again: I am glad to ask you, as I have said, that I have hesitated or put myself before the Minister of Transport or you, but only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is watching over our national interests. I wonder whether there has really been a change in this agreement, whether it really wants to change this agreement, which has also been agreed by the technical side between Italy, Slovenia and the European Commission at that time, is technically appropriate. Or is Italy now seeking to change the course of the corridor? In this case, if you have seen this, I urge you to do everything possible to defend Slovenia this agreement that has been adopted. I wonder: Could not this change that I now hear and that I would like to explain that we will only go into a single implementation be an incentive to change Italy's position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u68	Mr. Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u69	These are already very large details for the Foreign Minister, regarding the two-tier, single performance. I think we're still building a second track. And as I understand the Minister of Transport, we should already have almost all the documentation for the second track ready and should have started with the second track this year, which is a great pleasure for all of us. I think it's going to be two-tier in one direction and one in the opposite direction. But that's too much detail. I understand we're going along these tracks, as we thought, that's two. The High Official of the Foreign Ministry, as you mention, made these statements without the knowledge or authority of the Foreign Ministry. Nor was it within his jurisdiction, and he was, like others, like those making statements without an external ministry, informed, warned or warned about this matter. We support the sixth corridor, as you said it was agreed and as it came into all the European Commission documents. On the Italian side, there may be some ideas that due to our own failure to prepare documentation for this connection, to think about any modifications, which we oppose and insist that the track is as it was confirmed, so let it remain so. That is why we are also building on the accelerated part of this work.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u70	Mr. Verlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much. It's not that, Mr. Secretary, it's to torture you with technical details here. This really isn't your jurisdiction. However, when something has been achieved between the two countries and when it comes to some agreement, even if you are not fully aware of all the details at the foreign ministry, it is essential that it does not depart from this. If I have understood this last response of yours correctly, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not depart from this. But this agreement, let me put it here, is therefore my proposal that this answer be carried out in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because I think this is already above the level of the Government. It is a matter of agreeing that both Italian and Slovenian interests are equally protected, that in both cases they are two-tier links from Kopra to Divaca and from Trieste to Divaca in this connection, where both routes connect with the Black Kal. I don't think that was too hard. Of course, now the Slovenian side persists or changes and says that we will build only one track from Kopra to Divac. In this way we have shown in some way that we give priority to the link from Trieste to Divaci, which requires a two-tier connection in accordance with the sixth and priority projects, which is, of course, right. But so we will have a two-tier connection from Trieste to Divaci, and from Kopra to Divaci one track, which is bad and also changes this arrangement. Therefore, I think it is important that we find out in the National Assembly whether this change opened the way for Italy to say it immediately, okay if the Republic of Slovenia changes, and let us change it. Then we're in trouble here. Let me tell you right now, this dilemma, which is now in the public eye many times, also requires a double track to have two pipes, because one tunnel by which trains ride on one track requires a service track, a service pipe in the event of a traffic accident. We're just going to increase it a little bit, and we have two tubes for a two-tier connection that we could build phasedly and gradually. So anyway, we're gonna build two pipes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u72	On the proposal of Mr Petr Verlic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to his question, the State Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 2 March, in the framework of the votes. Mr Igor Lukšič, Minister for Education and Sport, will answer the question of Mrs Mag. Majde Potrat related to the architecture of Slovenian schools.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you. Dear Member, Members! I am happy about this question because in education there is usually only talk about people, about what is related to finance. But the buildings are closing down. Therefore, I think it is also appropriate for the National Assembly to deal with this issue and to support in some way what we feel we need. In autumn, the Ministry prepared a conference on Sustainable architecture in the field of education, an OECD conference at which a number of world-renowned architects from the field of school space also attended. If architecture is important, I'll read you a sentence that says so. [[This is a school building in the 19th century described by the architect Fedja Koshir]] "The school is an institution of the country whose authority breathes the school class, organised only for a frontal education. This long-term right-holder is not on official duty and must not be at home. For this reason, normal unilateral lighting is also sufficient, and for access a narrow corridor, dimensional as in other state offices. The school yard is not intended for teaching, so it is often poor and not very interesting. The only content supplement of the city's schools is the school hall and perhaps the gym." It's the 19th century. I think it's right to find together that our schools cannot be in the architecture of the 19th century. And it is right to find out that the school space is also the place where our children and we create needs. A school that does not stimulate new needs, which is not a place to raise new needs, is a bad school. We cannot and cannot land on a school space that is simply functional and the cheapest possible. We need to know that this space is also in the function of developing the needs of all of us. So I'm glad that there are people among you who go when they make decisions about these things, beyond the current needs that we all recognize. They go over them into something that means good for 30 years. That is why I also find this question that has been raised here important. And it's precisely because now it's a crisis not to stop and fail on exams and say, but now we're only going to make some containers, some emergency solutions that then last, as we know, for a long time, but some solutions that will be sustainable. Like, for example, generations ahead of us, from Mary Teresa on, they could build a solid aesthetic architecture where children experienced other dimensions and not just those related to knowledge transfer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u74	Ma'am mag. Tremendous, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u75	Thank you for this part of the answer, Mr. Secretary-General. If you looked at the past, then one way or another from some general experience of the cultural landscape could be that the Slovenian space was marked or that there was a dominant church, along with the school, perhaps also a hostel. But we survived those times. Even if we were not co-organising this important conference on school architecture at the Ministry of Education and Sport, questions about architecture, with the quality of school construction, are also raised in the context of the experiences we witnessed when the newly built schools were left without roofs, when they were perhaps at the same school at the next meeting of the school again without roofs. I also taught myself in an institution that had an architectural award, the architect was awarded a prize for that building, but staying and operating in that building gave rise to urgent adjustments because of poor performance or because of the changed methods of some intervention into the internal structure of the school. But what seems essential to me is that, in fact, for a large number of young people, the space in which they form their basic attitude towards aesthetics is also to how they need to deal with space in the future, and, on the other hand, to the local authorities, to say so, to weigh regularly, whether they will measure more resources for buildings built according to the principles of sustainable development. And they're charging school budgets. So I would like to thank you for this part, but at the same time I ask: Do you also have a plan on recommendations, how do you take into account the principles of sustainable development exactly?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u76	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you for that part of the question. We're doing this thing on a multi-layered basis. First, we're going to do some background checks on the situation that exists in the school's field. Today we do not have an overview of what is going on with our kindergartens, primary schools, unless they apply to our projects. And that's bad. From here on out, we will go first to remedy those situations that are the worst, where people there simply do not have the power, not the principal, not the congregation, to put the question of rebuilding on the agenda. The criteria now in play, which are linked to sustainable development, are mainly related to energy recovery. Here we are talking about the use of European funds and we already have certain funds reserved for the SVR, which allocates these funds, as has already been the case with health buildings. And these two things, this is a record of all the spaces and the criteria that are primarily related to energy recovery, this is something that the consensus has reached. What you are implying, honourable Member, is that what would go through is that we encourage some aesthetic criteria to bring into our buildings also elements of other cultures, such as Arabs or any of them, to integrate elements of the cultures of this world into the school space, and there is no agreement on that. When I have the opportunity to talk to people who have good references to buildings in the world, but I will not mention the company here, and who are not even involved in the construction of our school facilities, I try to warm them up so that our school space can also be reached, because I would like to have the best companies in planning and building our school space. Let me also say that there is a doctorate here with some company in the field of architecture for the most modern architecture in school space. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] We are taking steps, we are involving people, so that I think the matter will go this way, which is also the intention of this question. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Menich asked the question of a choice object to protect against natural and other accidents in primary schools. Mr. Minister for Education, Dr. Igor Luksic, will answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you for that question. It is an item that is new, which is not yet running and is one of more than a hundred optional subjects that are available to pupils in primary schools. This subject was introduced on the initiative of the Ministry of Defence with the idea of offering the child the opportunity to learn more about some chapters in the field of education. Qualification requires two levels of teacher competence. One is educational and the other is professional. With regard to this subject, every teacher will have to carry out a training programme prepared by the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia to protect and rescue, in cooperation with the Fire Association of Slovenia. This includes firefighters, because it is a series of issues that are within the competence of the fire brigades and the fire brigades. This training will be organised for the first time this month, i.e. in March. The second part is the educational education to be acquired by the teachers of this subject, the operators of this subject according to the Education Direction Regulation or the Pedagogical Training. That's mostly what he does in teaching colleges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you. Mr. Darko Menich, would you like an additional answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u81	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for your answer. I'd have an extra question if you could explain it to me. According to the new Law on Primary School, Official Gazette of the Republic of Slovenia No 102/7, a student who attends a music school with a publicly valid programme can be released from participation in selected subjects. I wonder: Do you think that young members of the fire companies would be included in this category in terms of how many hours they spend on education? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u82	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you so much for asking. It's an interesting idea. We haven't thought about it yet. We will look at it, but if I answer the first ball now, the question is similar for athletes and other interesting activities. I'm afraid if we opened this field, we'd be more educated than we are now. However, we would like to limit, define and require more within a certain amount of knowledge which is fundamental to primary school. We're going to study this idea, look at what it would mean for the whole system, but for a quick answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Majda Potrat raised a question on the situation of public music schools. Mr Igor Lukšič, Minister for Education and Sport, will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much for that question. The Slovenian public is not aware of the fact that Slovenian music education is one of the largest pearls of Slovenian education. This is something that simply cannot be compared with any country in the world. We have developed music education in Slovenia in fact until the peak. The task of the Ministry and the prime minister is to allow this sphere to continue to be mastered. Thus, at the 2009 budget rebalancing, we have provided some additional resources to open some new departments, allowing mostly no more children to remain outside of music schools. Of course, there are still problems with some instruments, such as piano, there is always more demand than possible, but we have opened up a new space. In the school year 2009/2010, a total of 24 000 939 students were enrolled in music schools, i.e. almost 25 000. Of these, they are attended by the individual learning of instruments by 20,000 and by the group learning of preschool music education, music and dance courses of modern dance and ballet 4,687. In 2009, we set up a Music and Ballet Conservatory in Ljubljana to show that our music school is a quality school at the long-standing initiative of the Ljubljana Music School. Thus Slovenia also received an institution for the music and ballet education of the highest rank. Similar processes have also run for Maribor, but this has not yet been decided there, i.e. for this new form. Then we introduced some innovations in this area; that is, the unification of the duration of schooling for most instruments, the extension of schooling from six to eight years for blowers, trumpets, drums and violins. This increased the possibility of creating quality orchestras in schools. You know, when you go around after events, we have very good orchestras and very good individuals. Then we have enabled an increase in the range of possible orchestras that the music school can offer to the students, namely, the grueling, winding, harmonic, tambourine and symphony orchestras are added to the guitar, jazz, saloon and orchestra. We want to reintroduce the singing assembly as an important compulsory component of education at the music school. The programme of the private music school of the Institute of Avsenik Music School Avsenik is confirmed because it is an important private initiative, which, as you know, is already part of the identity in Slovenia. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mrs. Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Minister, for this part of the answer. I also think that the amended law on the organisation and financing of education and education has provided to some extent better protection of the public network of music schools. And in this case, I certainly see a departure from the danger we experienced in the past when we listened to the parents of children who could not fulfill all their wishes or wishes of their children after entering a public music school. However, I am interested in the fact that probably the interest in music school attendance has increased even after the school attendance may be one of the forms of an out-of-school or optional course: Are you planning, and how do you plan, what dynamics should be used to increase admissions to the public music school network? Above all, I think it is commendable that you have also begun to think at the Ministry about reintroducing the assembly as a special subject in music schools, given the quality of Slovenian choir singing, not only at this primary school level or youth level, but also for adults. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Luksic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you, Madam President, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Maybe first of all about the network of music schools; we looked at the network of music schools across Slovenia and we saw that Slovenia is well covered with music schools, so there are no major problems. In some ways, it is possible for children wishing to join a music school to have this possibility relatively close to their place of residence. I did not mention earlier that in the last year, from 2008/2009 to 2009/2010, the number or rate of enrolment of primary school children in music school increased from 13.47% to 14.3%. That's it, that's the percentage of children involved in music schools. Together with the management of music schools, we assess what capacity is still at our disposal, so we need to have enough teachers to increase the offer. These capacities are still, I have talked to my colleagues, so we will try to increase the level or supply even further, and we are approaching about what we are able to give; it is said, in premises, in personnel and what kind of demand there is. That's why we're open. At the Ministry, we consider that this is really an important part of the education and education of our children, that this is an important element that raises the tone, even if you want, in the nation, and therefore I think we are in a position to support it. I wouldn't want music education to be one of those scapegoats that would pay the price in the time of the dry cows we're in the middle of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Justice Minister Aleš Zalar will answer Dr Vinko Gorenak's question regarding the procedure for the adoption of the last amendment to the Law on Lawyerry. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Chairman. Your Honor! At the previous meeting, I received the question whether I am still insisting on the list of persons and bodies with which the new Law on Lawyers from 2009 was aligned. And to the indications raised at that meeting, I reply that we have also coordinated Amendment C of the Law on Lawyerry with the Ombudsman, among other things, by taking into account her recommendations in the changes to the disciplinary regime. By letter dated 28 January 2009, we forwarded the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Lawyerry to the Ombudsman in the framework of the peer-coordinated review. The guardian shall then be by letter of 2. 2. It delivered its opinion on this draft proposal. She wrote that she welcomed certain proposals, such as proposals designed to strengthen the competence and quality of legal aid, proposals to ensure better security of the rights of the parties, a provision protecting public interest in the evaluation of individual lawyers' services. Some proposals, such as a provision on the composition of disciplinary commissions, were then referred to in Article 64 and considered unclear, since it was not possible to understand what the composition of the individual disciplinary committee would be in the first and second stages. We have also taken these comments into account in the further preparation of novel C. Because he's at 61 now. the Article clearly sets out how many members of the Commission come from the types of lawyers and how many members are selected from the list appointed by the Minister of Justice. In view of its assessment that the proposed solutions relating to the Ombudsman when it comes to the issue of subsidiary prosecution, in the event that the Prosecutor withdraws from prosecution and the possibility of appeal to the Disciplinary Commission's decision to go beyond the Constitutional Framework of the Ombudsman's functioning and its independence and impartiality, we have also taken this comment into account in the drafting of the regulation, so that now, after the Ombudsman's regulation in force, it is only possible to propose the introduction of a disciplinary procedure. Finally, the Ombudsman warned that the law must contain time frames for disciplinary procedures, and we have also taken this comment into account; I will not go into detail. If my statements were consistently cited at the meeting of the National Assembly, when there were talks about coordination with the Ombudsman, about the novel C of the Law on Lawyerry, and if this were not to be torn out of the text and only parts that might be misunderstood, then it would be easy to conclude that I was talking about the disciplinary regime. And that's exactly the terminology I specifically used in the presentations. However, the disciplinary regime is, of course, more than just the composition of the disciplinary commission, there is also a question of the procedure, who can be the initiators, which authorities decide and so on. And that in this regard, i.e. as regards the disciplinary regime, we have reached out to the present regulation so much that, again, I stress, we have taken into account the Ombudsman's recommendations in particular and have given the Ombudsman a certain role in this regard in connection with the initiative to introduce a disciplinary procedure against a lawyer. Thus, this response to coordination with the Ombudsman is correct and the comments made by the Ombudsman have been taken into account. However, the Ombudsman herself at the December session, at the hearing of her annual report, made it clear that we had agreed that the Ombudsman could not be a member of the Disciplinary Commission at the Bar Association. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Gorenak wishes to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, let me hypothetically transfer the role of Member and Minister to another situation now and say that I am the buyer and you are the seller. I want to have a kilo of sausage, you bring me a kilo of potatoes. That means I'm gonna replace the seller sooner or later. Look, you're at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on April 9th, on my explicit question: "Is the disciplinary chapter in line with the guardian?"as this surprised me, they replied: "At a meeting with the Ombudsman, we agreed that the Ministry will include her comments in the first amendment of the law on legal representation. And that's why in the new law we rearranged this chapter on disciplinary responsibility. I would like to point out, once the text has been prepared, that this time we have forwarded this text to the Ombudsman's opinion on the explicit question whether such an arrangement seems appropriate to her. And the answer was - the magnetogram says - "would" "Yes." Since it was completely incomprehensible to me at the time that I could say this or play a double role, I was surprised to hear her report, so she sent me a letter from which you quoted some things, but it is clear from this letter that it is not the same text. She agreed with the text of the draft law and not with the text that you brought to the National Assembly, which I specifically clarified with her after that meeting, after that consideration. In fact, she specifically said that she wanted to have disciplinary commissions arranged in law in a way that lawyers would not have a majority, and of course this was not done. That's why I, Mr. Secretary, don't know what it's called. So I won't use what I want to do next. Don't tell the truth! I think you owe me additional clarifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u94	Mr. Zalar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u95	I don't know what letter you have with you, honourable Member. I have a letter from the Ombudsman dated 2. 2. 2009, the title of this letter is Subject: Draft proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Lawyers. We received this draft at the Ministry, and we coordinated with the Ombudsman on this. I have no other documents in this regard, and I have nothing else to add to what I have said before.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Member Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u97	Look, the situation is this: Minister, before he swears - we know what the jail is like, that he will do the same and, among other things, defend the truth. That's not true, Minister. I'm the one who's been cleaning up with the nanny. For many years, she and her predecessor have sought to have the Legal Chamber respond to their letters at all. For years they've had trouble asking your predecessors for years, and I don't know who else to arrange this disciplinary procedure so that lawyers don't have a majority. This was arranged by your predecessor, Dr. Sturm, in his marriage, but we know that you fixed this matter last year when lawyers have a majority. And I'm saying you've been deceiving the National Assembly. In fact, you did not harmonize the text that was in the National Assembly, that is what the Ombudsman told me - I am prepared to meet with both of you too - but another text that was not adopted in the National Assembly. So I think it's right and right to talk about it again. Of course, I will ask the MPs or the chairman to put this to a vote tomorrow to discuss this with the National Assembly, if it does not, but I will have something else left to do with the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mr Gorenak, will be decided tomorrow in the context of the vote whether we should discuss Mr Aleš Zalar's response to the Minister of Justice at the next meeting. This concludes the answers to the questions raised at previous meetings. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. I inform you that Member Rado Likar has announced an oral question to Minister of Public Administration Irma Pavlinič Krebs, who has informed me in writing that it is not appropriate to answer this question, so I have not included this question in the order in which the questions sent are asked. The first question will therefore be asked by Dr Vinko Gorenak, the Secretary-General of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Well, this time my microphone works. For I am one of those Members, look, Mr Secretary-General, who is looking through the papers and trying to remember something from this. When we discussed the state's attorney's report, that was last week, we came across, just like that, we would say, by the way, or all the rest of the work, we didn't even intend to open up any actual affairs and so on, because that doesn't belong to that period or that report, but still. Look, this most up-to-date story with dogs came to this committee on the day in the following form. The Law on State Defence was amended, I think, in 2006 and gave the so-called general mandate to represent the public interest of lawyers. This case ran perfectly normal, there were no problems until 2009. In 2009, of course, a well-known lawyer, whom we are talking about so much now, makes no sense for me to mention him in particular, to use all the remedies, as you know, both in the Administrative Court and in the Supreme Court. It is less known that the Supreme Court has reached that the Supreme Court has said that it is no longer possible to have a general mandate to represent the public interest, but that it is the duty of the Government, in any case, to empower the judiciary. He surprised the defence attorneys at this conclusion, the matter was normal for three years and at one point nothing more. But of course, this is the only thing that stops. And the Advocate is the same day that he was informed of the situation in this area, when he saw that he would not be able to represent this public interest, he asked you, or the Secretariat that you run, to the Government to issue such a mandate. According to his words, you have never issued such a mandate, not yet today, it is so late today, and of course he could no longer represent the matter further. So I'm asking: Why was the power not given to the Ombudsman to represent the so-called public interest? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u100	The Secretary-General of the Government, Mag. Milan M. Squeakle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u101	First of all, a nice greeting, Mr Vice-President, Members and Members of Parliament! In fact, I am surprised that, as former Secretary of State in the cabinet of the President of the Government and as Chairman of the Committee, you are asking questions that you have your own answers to, or answers to, these questions lie in the decisions of your government. Firstly, it is not a matter of amending the Law on State Defence, as you said wrongly, but in 2006 there was an amendment to the Law on Administrative Dispute. And the Administrative Dispute Act, its 18th article, which, of course, was amended at the time, requested a mandate, a special mandate, to the State Attorney's Office, where there was a breach of public interest. More! At that time, the law stipulated that it must be decided in each particular case by the Government. You in the previous government have decided, somewhere in 2007, to grant the State's defence, even though you have enforced the amendment of this law primarily to narrow the protection of the public interest by denationalisation procedures, or to grant the State's defence so one general authority, but the independent branch of the government, Mr Member, is independent of Parliament, the independent branch of government decided in August 2009 that the State's defence should, in order to protect public interest in the breach of public interest in the case triggered by Mr Ribič, have a special mandate from the Government. It is known that this whole story is in some way an affair, but it is not an affair because of what was happening within the procedures led by this government. This government has conducted procedures in accordance with the law and in accordance with the caselaw of the Supreme Court. And if more or less Slovenian public is known to have submitted to the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food an initiative for the purpose of assessing legality, it should also be said that the Ministry of Agriculture has immediately forwarded this to the State Defence. Why the State Defence has decided to bring an action before the Administrative Court without the power of the Government for the annulment of the decision on this preliminary decision of the Ministry is a matter for the State Defence. When the Administrative Court decided to grant the application of the State Defence Office for a stay of enforcement of the Ministry’s decision, a complaint was lodged with the Supreme Court by the owner’s authority. Tragically, in previous procedures, this is now known to the Slovenian public, it is possible to conclude with some decisions, somewhere in February 2008, the fate of these three dogs and there would be no tragic case. However, after the Supreme Court has decided that the power of the State Attorney pursuant to your mandate to adopt a law requiring a decision of the Government on public interest was not in the file submitted by the State Attorney's Office, the Supreme Court annulled that decision by the Administrative Court. On 24 August, one month later, the so-called request of the State Defence Office against the General Secretariat of the Government or the Government followed, and we immediately referred the matter to the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Justice, because it was the Ministry that amended the Law on Administrative Disputes in 2006, and also, as appropriate, the Ministry of Agriculture. The Administrative Court, taking into account the Supreme Court’s case-laws, found that it was no longer possible to conduct the proceedings, so the Administrative Court decided on 31 August as it had decided. The state's defence - and this is less familiar and we could ask the state's attorney - is 4.9. Although the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has indicated that a complaint to this decision of the Administrative Court is possible, the Supreme Court’s decision makes it unlikely that this action will be won, and thus the proceedings have been terminated. That's all the facts. When the Government of the Republic of Slovenia requests such a special mandate, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall also give a special mandate. There have been a number of such cases in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak, supplement the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary-General, you've spent four minutes explaining what I'm not interested in, and one minute explaining that you've somehow made your way through the guilt. No, Mr. Secretary-General, the situation is different. I allow everything to be decided by the Supreme Court. I have nothing against that decision; in fact, we have nothing against such a decision - such a decision has been issued. Although the general mandate had been in force until then and no one had stumbled upon it and all the procedures with that general mandate had been in force. Of course, now we come back here with capable lawyers who take advantage of everything that is in their power and more. But we don't have anything. That's the kind of thing that's been published. However, the state's attorney made it very clear, look at the magnetogram: "At the time when the General Secretariat of the Government asked for permission, I had five working days to react. But I couldn't because I didn't get the authority. I don't know if that's true. I don't blame you. I don't blame you. However, if you issued that mandate on a given day, the Ombudsman could react. And so it is - but at this time, I could explore the Justice Minister with some kind of control, and I ask him to do so - what "shus" would say to the people, within five days he has already obtained the Supreme Court's decision. Yeah, that's kind of the case. That means - what? - that all the procedures ran, ran and ran, as we said. And I think it's right for you to answer me more precisely, without it being too late, it's been a long time. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mag. Squeak, here you go. Complementary response.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u105	Mr. Ambassador, I must warn you again. The Supreme Court ruled on 13 August and the Supreme Court found that the State Attorney’s Office had no authority because it had not applied for it. On 24 August, the State Attorney's Office requested the continuation of the proceedings before the Administrative Court for the power of the Government and the State Attorney's Office later informed the Government that it had obtained a decision from the Administrative Court, which took account of the Supreme Court's decision, of course, that it should follow the Supreme Court's decision, namely that this procedure should be terminated. And that same state attorney's office is four. The communication "against the decision of the Administrative Court is possible to lodge a complaint. The deadline for lodging a complaint shall be 16. 9. 2009, however, we believe that the possibility of success in view of the position taken by the Supreme Court in its decision under the provisional order is very small." In this way, the State Defence Office has in fact withdrawn the mandate previously requested to represent the public interest. And the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, in response to the interpretation, explains all these facts very precisely. Once again: the matter in which the State Defence Office was involved has been initiated by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food on the basis of the initiative of Member Janez Ribič. In view of the matters related to the decisions you have taken, the State Secretary of the Cabinet of the President of the Government, together with the previous Government, has proposed to this National Assembly - a very complex procedure for obtaining the right of the State Defence to file public interest claims. Such a procedure was carried out several times in its mandate, first of all in the case of the so-called registration of the Fourth University, and there were several other cases. A few days ago, we granted the Ministry of the Environment and Space at the initiative of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food the power to defend the State. And the State Attorney's Office, when it found out by the action of the Supreme Court and found that the Administrative Court was following the actions of the Supreme Court in the state of law, said that, otherwise, the complaint could not be brought, it was not possible to submit, because it had, of course, found that the possibility of winning that appeal was very small. Of course, due to the documentation, and in particular due to the procedures set out by him during your term of office to adopt the law on legal procedure. I regret, Mr Secretary of State, that you are asking me about matters when you, in the Government, gave the State Attorney's Office, according to the present case-law of the Supreme Court, an obviously illegal mandate. The power to adopt delegated acts is conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in If the State's Attorney's Office demanded it at the right time, July 20th, it would have been received: it did not require the right time, and that is all the truth.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much. I will not continue to ask questions because the Secretary-General is no longer in a position to answer, and I will be corrected. Look, Mr Secretary-General, but when you were sitting on that side somewhere, and I was watching you down there, you were awfully precise in your previous term. But it's obvious that now the letter of defense was to be understood as withdrawal, at least that's what you said. I therefore propose that we discuss this in order for the Secretary-General of the Government to be able to respond, to face up to documents and facts in this area, because it would probably be inappropriate for me to fill him in with some other information, such as, for example, that he immediately gave his first day of consent to represent public interest in the case of a new university. But there was an immediate need to break down what had happened - but that doesn't make any sense. I'm asking for a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Gorenak. Your proposal for the National Assembly to hold a debate on the response of the Secretary-General of the Government will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the votes. Mr Srečko Friend, Minister of Culture Majdi Širca Ravnikar, will ask the next question. Here you go, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, you probably don't know the essence of the appeal of the journalists of the regional centre of RTV in Kopra. We at the Maritime Members' Club have received this letter. Let me summarize some of the claims in this letter. In recent years, RTV Slovenia has received a number of innovations, according to the contractual and regular journalists on RC Koper. Some have also influenced the autonomy of journalism. Continued pressure on financial resources, which have been on the rise in recent years, has resulted in erosion of both quality and actual work and the payment system. Journalists continue to point out that their account is largely saved, EUR 5000 gross per month, and that this also threatens the independence of journalism and the work of journalists. Journalists also point out that they are not in an equal position with other journalists in Ljubljana. Dear Minister, I remind you that this is about spending public funds, public finances, and I ask you the following questions: How is it allowed on this same TV in Cyprus that the Italian - and I also want an answer - page for our money is essentially broadcast in Croatia for the purposes of Italians living in Croatia? That's what the previous minister, your predecessor, has said. And of course: Why has this not been corrected, this illegal spending of money? How many employees are there on RTV, in a public office that never comes to work? We also have this information - I hope you have it, too. And they get paid. I wonder: Why, for example, does a director who is responsible for running a public institution in an area not even speak Slovenian? When he speaks, he basically needs a translator or subtitles, he speaks Serbian, Croatian. Why is the enormous use of alcohol permitted? There are a number of people who are actually needed to be treated among journalists. You know that, and it's tolerated. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] Why is there still no subtitles in the public office in Cyprus when the program is in Italian? In fact, if the Slovenians speak on this programme, in this part of the programme, they are addressed in Italian. I'd like to because we're all paying for this service to make some sort of order here. After all, it's a lot of money that's being used uncontrolledly. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] In some ways, I would also like to point out that so-called contract workers are an uncontrolled number and that no one knows who is doing anything. Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Ms Maja Shirca Ravnikar, Minister for Culture, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u111	Dear Member! You've asked quite a few questions that don't always have the right title. First of all, those questions about why they drink on RTV Slovenia or - what did you say? - why alcohol is permitted, why the director does not know the Slovenian language, why so many contract workers and so on. These are all the questions that you need to address to the RTV office, which is autonomous and which also has quite a few representatives in the programming and supervisory board here elected and confirmed to be able to submit these questions to obtain a legal answer. It is true, however, that some of these issues are also addressed by the Ministry of Culture's department, which in some ways exercises creative, indirect, rights. Let's say those who are connected to the work of contract workers, unions, and also on RTV Slovenia we talk about regulation - especially they talk, but our advisers are also - how to arrange a very large number of contracts that are at the border of the legal order for contract and very creative workers on RTV Slovenia. We are talking about the translation system of wages, as was the case under the so-called Virant Act, and also in the light of the fact that these translations are not because we control them as they were in all other public institutions, as they were made. In short, a lot of questions can also be raised by the Ministry of Culture and I believe that you have also mixed what has been addressed to the Ministry of Culture and is going in the direction of how to arrange payments, supplements, for the payment of employees in Cyprus who should or should not know and use both Slovenian and Italian languages, which should also make them pay more. These are also issues that we resolve together because they are, however, linked to the wage system in the public sector. As for the question of how not to look and can't watch, this is the question you have asked me the last time - Slovenian or minority programs with subtitles. I understand that's what you're asking this time. Let me warn you, we have two laws here that regulate the constitutional category of minorities. These are the Media Act and the RTV Slovenia Act, which define exactly what the State is doing to ensure the Italian and Hungarian national communities and their rights, both by RTV Slovenia and, of course, in the light of radio and television programmes for the Italian and Hungarian national communities. Here again I warn you, the law does not provide that these programs must be translated or subtitled and that it is a matter of the institution itself whether it guarantees it or not. However, I would like to replicate or answer one question that you asked me the last time you asked me a question and it was of a similar character, but - Mr Potrč led the session at the time - in some way in the third replica, when you reasoned on why an extended discussion was needed in my reply, put up and had no opportunity to challenge you. In fact, last time you claimed that no media from Primorska would be financed and co-financed within the so-called media fund's programming calls. I have to say here that it's not true that you've obviously been knowingly lying. However, if you have not been informed, I can now tell you that a number of media outlets in Primorsk or within the territory, both bitter and Kopersk, have received considerable media assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Friend, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u113	Yes! Dear Minister, you did not answer me why you allow the illegal use of public funds within RTV. I've clearly warned you, you've answered everything else, but not that. For the last time, you have been given a criminal indictment - only so much for knowledge, it will be brought to the appropriate court and you will be able to defend your illegality or legality in court. Today I asked you why you allow money collected from all households to record shows by Italian journalists in Croatia for the purposes of the Croatian Italian minority. The fact that Croatia does not give any kuna for the purposes of the Italian minority is well known. That's what I was asking you. And, of course, I want an answer to that! That I have indicated that alcohol is present, that there are so many and so many fictitious jobs, that you have not answered me and would ask if you know that if you do not know - much sadder, we will tell you which of these people who are in a regular working relationship do not come to work or have been or have not come to work but to receive a salary or have received a salary. And last but not least, I'm interested in: How will you resolve the open question of the Cypriot journalists? You said you knew this letter. It was addressed to the Maritime Members' Club. I've only taken a few major statements from this letter. The point is that they are placed in a less favourable position vis-à-vis other journalists inside the house in Ljubljana. That's what I asked you the last time, and of course, the final question, as it were, is: the criminal conviction is ready. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u114	Mrs. Minister of Culture Majda Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u115	You're very vague about your questions, I stress - criminal prosecution, I mean, for the last time, yeah, I understand. [[...]] I have a chance to answer for the last time because I didn't, because you made a statement in the third raid. This criminal complaint, which is supposed to go to a call for funds only for the media, which are on display, but not independent, will strike you somehow over, because eventually we should incriminate someone else who worked the same way in 2006, 2007 and 2008. As in the 2009 invitation to tender, all legal categories are clearly taken into account. This is said to be the independent producers required by the Directive of the European Union and those enrolled in the Media Assistance Fund. Illegal spending. Mr Member, there is a Committee on Culture in the National Assembly which must consider the annual report on the operation of RTV Slovenia or their supervisory board. You have every opportunity within the Committee on Culture, as well as other manoeuvres, to gain and also eliminate the illegality of spending. After all, audits and so forth are possible. According to a 2009 decision, the Court of Auditors is also ordered to enter the public institute of RTV Slovenia, so that it is likely that it will also identify fictitious jobs if they are. What the Ministry of Culture is doing because it is only a partner in the translation of wages that happened when a contract between three ministries or three entities and the Ministry of Public Administration was signed in 2008, between RTV Slovenia and trade unions, those translations are identified within a wider group where not only representatives of the Ministry of Culture but also representatives of the Ministry of Public Administration and so on. If they are, it's scary. If they're fictitious jobs, it's scary, and that's probably not right. However, we know that there is a huge amount of employment, i.e. around 400, where journalists or other contractual relationships, which are dangerously approaching disputed solutions where the possibility of contractual relationships for a fixed period of time is not taken into account and can approach permanent employment, as you know, in one or two cases also happened. The Cypriot journalists asked me about the supplements related to the unexplained role of the Italian language supplement because it had not yet been determined whether it belonged to any or only some [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr. Friend, would you like to make a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Of course, it bothers me that Minister Majde Širca does not mind that one of the executive directors of RTV Slovenia does not know the Slovenian language, which is evident, and he would really need subtitles when he speaks. You don't mind the illegal use of public finances. This does not bother you, as I have noticed, even though we sat together in the previous term, when I asked the previous Minister about it and he replied that this is true, I expected you to remedy this illegal situation when you are the Minister. And of course, you don't even mind if the whole of Slovenia, all Slovenians, watch the imposed Italian program without Slovenian subtitles on national television, which is a kind of disgrace. I don't know why that doesn't bother you. It bothers me. You don't mind the wage difference either, do you? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u118	Mr. Friend, I'd love to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u119	Allow [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u120	Mr. Friend, will you calm down, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u121	Of course, because of what I have said, I want an extensive debate to take place in the National Assembly on how to talk about the public institution of RTV. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u122	Mr. Friend, if you're going to make a procedural proposal, please don't comment on the answers, because this moment of controversy with the Minister is possible. Please, have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you, thank you. That's exactly what I was gonna do. In view of what I have said, I think there are enough reasons to propose an extended debate in the National Assembly to be discussed by the Minister. However, all that has been said by the Ministry is also being done. We know that we have the Court of Auditors and other controls at our disposal, and we will also postpone this, without concern. But it is up to you to ensure the legality of business in a public institution, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Friend. Your proposal to hold an interview or debate on Mrs Majda Širca's response will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow in the framework of the vote. Member Marijan Križman has the floor, which will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roku Žarnić a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Dear Minister, I ask you: How are activities on the long-term supply of Slovenian Istria and Crassus with water? Rižanski voivodeship Koper supplies water to three Istrian municipalities: Koper, Isolo and Piran. Water consumption is increasing by an increase in population growth and the tourist season, when consumption is particularly increasing. Current water sources are limited and complemented by supply from Croatia, which is a long-term unreliable solution, to which our neighbours face a similar problem. The municipalities of Hrpelje, Kozina, Sežana, Miren, Kostanjevica, Illyrian Bistrica, Komen, Divaca, Postojna and Pivka are facing the exact same problem of long-term care. There are enough quality water resources available and have been processed in nine variants, if listed, such as: Brestanica, Illyrian Bistriski Voivodeship, Accumulation Klivennik and Mola, Padež, Malni in the Mountain Field and Accumulation Kubed and Pinjevec. The Ministry of Environment and Space has already adopted some general conclusions on the water supply project of the Coast and Crassus at one of the working meetings, at which I myself participated. The main objectives of the project are to upgrade or upgrade the tansport water lines with related facilities for all three water systems, such as the karst water supply, the rice water supply and the illyrian bistro water supply, and to build all the necessary facilities to capture, prepare and clean drinking water. A project that is undoubtedly demanding, in addition to financial and technical difficulties, there is a need to harmonise 11 municipalities, participants in the process of providing sufficient resources or sufficient water. Since the project is an integral part of the operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure for the period 2007 to 2013 and provides for a large share of the cohesion fund and budgetary resources, I ask you, Mr Minister: When will the water supply project be actively revived?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Dr. Roko Žarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u127	Mr Vice President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Today is my first working day in this Parliament - the last time it was celebrated - and I am not nervous. Last time I asked if you could help me and I'm happy to hear the questions I got today, honestly. As far as I can tell, the issues are an extremely good instrument for ministers to know what they need to do, where problems are and what they can do, for me, who is new to this, in particular. You have rightly concluded that the project is ahead of us with the cohesion fund and the operational programme for environmental and transport infrastructure development for the period 2007-2013. The main objective of this project, as far as the water supply is concerned, is to provide sufficient quantities and adequate reserves from the coast and Crassus until 2026. However, as you said, in twenty years, 9 variants have been produced, they have been evaluated, a lot of work has been done and the Ministry of the Environment has studied these variants and has set itself towards realisation. It is a pre-investment design of a project, where without the participation of municipalities, the ministry can do nothing. In July 2009, the Secretary of State held a meeting with the mayors of the municipalities concerned, a plan of action was presented and there are tasks in this action plan. The first task was to establish a project council for which the congregation was responsible, the deadline set in September 2009. And that's where the trouble begins. The municipalities are completely inactive and uninterested. In July 2009, the ILO requested the municipality of Hrpelje-Kozin to determine the place and time of the meeting and had not yet received an answer. The ILO has not provided the means to prepare documents, as it cannot assess until the first meeting. We've prepared a letter, called for a pooling of data to prepare the documents. Well, we're sorry we're on constant alert, but the six-month delay is well-known. That is to say, all activities will be somewhat delayed, but the matter is not delayed. If we succeed, and I hope that one of the affected listens, encourages, activates, we are ready. We ensure that we provide funds, personnel and deadlines for all those activities where we can do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Ambassador Alenka Jeraj. Did you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Crossman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u129	I'm sorry. I didn't raise my hand high enough. There was a mistake on my side. Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Minister, I thank you for such a concrete and comprehensive response, especially in the part where you say that time is still enough and that activities must continue. That is why eleven congregations have deliberately referred to my question and also counted them because I know that this is the biggest problem - to be reconciled. Maybe as an additional question, but I don't know if that's wise enough or not, you'll be the one at the Ministry of Environment and Space. In view of the fact that there have not been significant changes to the agreement of all 11 congregations so far, I ask as an additional question. Is it possible, unless it goes otherwise - because without water supply for the next period we will have major problems with tourism, industry and other matters. So I'm interested in Mr. Minister: Can you examine the question of whether water supply can be provided to Crassus individually, to the Istrian municipalities in particular? Is it necessary, because of the project financed by the European Community, to take this project strictly to all 11 municipalities and to set up a common policy and also jointly to perform the visas of the Ministry of European Resources and, last but not least, to visa the designation of one of the most favourable resources? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you for the question that I understand more than a proposal. We will explore these options whether the entire project will be broken down into phases, into fragments if this is sufficient for the higher reasons of the Cohesion Fund and this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Jeraj will ask the question of the Minister for Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you for your word, lovely greeting to everyone. In mid-February, a six-year-old boy died in Maribor. He died from the effects of the drowning after being injured a few days ago at a swimming course in the indoor swimming pool of Portan. On this news, we ask our parents if our children are safe at school, can something like this happen to my child? And such a question arises especially because the media indicate that only when the schoolmates were spotted in the water did they start to call for help and thus warn the adults, both the representatives of the institution that organized the course, as well as the paramedics at the pool and the teachers who were supposed to look after the children at that time. Where were the teachers, because the media says they weren't at the pool at the time of the accident, but somewhere else. And if a classical study was to take place at that time, then finally there would be a swimming talk or learning, they should probably be with the children. The navigational description took place during their working time, so they should be present. We can also ask about the expertise and experts from the Maribor Sports Facilities Institute, which conducted the swimming course. Who concluded a contract with them, what was the contract, what did it contain, or what it required of the contractors? And: Has protection been sufficiently provided? How many representatives of operators were concerned about child safety at the time of the accident, and is this in accordance with the standards? According to standards, this is likely to require a different number of teachers present. How much is that? And: In a specific case, were there in fact as many people at the pool as required by the regulations? We know that similar accidents can also occur in the presence of a large number of teachers, but it is likely that if teachers were present, they would act more quickly and perhaps preserve the life of the schoolmaster in this particular case. According to informal data, something similar was to happen a day or two later. I wonder if that's true or if you know anything about it? And in view of the above, Mr Minister, I ask: How or by what measures will you ensure the safety of children in the exercise of the subject of sports education and other activities within that subject?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Dr Igor Lukšić, Minister for Education and Sport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u135	What happened in Maribor is a tragic event. I felt sorry for my parents. Unfortunately, that's all the Minister can do in such a case when, of course, it's all too late. But that's right, and on this side, I like that you're asking this question. It is right that whenever such tragic events occur, we also take a breath in the National Assembly and see if we have done everything and if we can do anything else to stop this from happening. We have the autonomy of primary schools and the principal or school itself decides who it will hire and how it will carry out the floating description prescribed. It is prescribed for the 2nd and 3rd classes, in which case the school decided to go through this first class description, and to rent it, as you said, Public Institute of Maribor Sports Facilities, which was conducted under the supervision of the leaders of Tiki d.o.o., which has relevant references, for many years in charge of water rescue and first aid in the Portan Bath. So these aren't some illiterate people, they were people with experience. In this case, of course, it is also necessary to understand that the school has opted for such a company, operators with references. So, someone else would trust their children if they weren't rescuers. Given the exact circumstances, as to what you are asking in detail, this is what the Education Inspectorate and the police are doing, and according to our information, the findings are to be known this week. So, until we get the reports from the inspectorate and the police, it's hard to say anything more about this. The second part of the story, however, is related to the issue of safety in sports education. There have not been such difficult cases in the field of sports education so far. There are injuries that are, in some ways, an integral part of physical education or sports education, but the Ministry at that time has come to realize that some of the elements that are more difficult and where there have been multiple injuries, such as part of gymnastics, gymnastics and one part of the acrobatics, when it comes to various salads, brushes and similar disciplines, that this has been eliminated from the program. So this is about sports education, especially in the higher classes of primary school. As for the first triad, you know that students are taught by classroom teachers. And here we are thinking about introducing sports education teachers who are more qualified and qualified in these subjects. In order to carry out the training of a sport teacher, university education acquired at the Faculty of Sport, which offers a wide range of skills, requires a range of experience, particularly practical work. For the time being, we can see that this kind of education allows teachers to take care of safety as well, and, at least if we have experienced it, the safety of children in general is not compromised. Of course, such cases, as we know, are also cruel, not excluded. I think that's how they do everything for security at a school where they train teachers, both at the Ministry and at schools. In this case, we will see what actually went wrong, and we will act accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u137	Well, that's all I wanted to remind you of. You said the inspectorate is investigating this now. Since you referred to autonomy, that's true, but the teachers who were at the workplace at the time are paying the Ministry, so they probably need to know what's going on. In view of what you said about the inspectorate being involved in the case, and in the light of what I asked at the outset, so if our children are safe, I would like to know: Did you do anything similar or even act in the event of last year’s accident when the child fell through the school window in Postojna and did not miss him because he was supposed to be at the dentist’s office for some time, and then he lay down in that spot for quite some time? Are there any sanctions, or have you found any irregularities, or that the school may have failed to provide sufficient security in this case, under similar inspection? I would suggest, however, that you also know what happened in a particular case and why this happened in Maribor when the inspectorate is being carried out and concluded.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u138	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you for that additional question. I am also making a commitment here that we will inform the National Assembly about this - I hope it will be written enough - as soon as something is known. As for Postojna, I don't know what was done. All I know is that people went to the field, and then they wouldn't let me know. I'll ask around, and I'll let the National Assembly know about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Member Janez Ribič to the Minister of Transport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! Dear Mr. Secretary! Due to the new development needs of the country in the field of economy and transport resulting from developments and normalisation of the situation in the Balkans and later due to Slovenia's accession to negotiations and entry into the European Union, a new resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia was adopted in 2004 on the basis of analyses and needs, which has been in force since 21 May 2004. It also defines it, and I quote, "Third time. Motorways in the area of international border crossings. Construction of motorway connections is foreseen at the following international border crossing points located on the motorway network. International border crossing of Pinke and the international border crossing of Long Village on the section of the Lendava-Pince motorway, the Slovenian-Hungarian border. And the international border crossing of Gruškovje, at the section of the highway Hajdin-Gruškovje, the Slovenian-Croatian border, 13 kilometers long." That's why I'm asking you, Minister: At what stage is the project of construction of the Drazenci-Gruškovje motorway? And: Do you think it is necessary to supplement and amend the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, which has been in force since 21 May 2004 in order to complete the project? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u142	Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you for asking. The preparation and adoption of the State Spatial Plan is under way for the road at Drazenci-Gruškovje section, which is managed by the Ministry of Environment and Space. Its conclusion is expected by the autumn of this year with the adoption of the Regulation in the State Spatial Plan. The State Spatial Plan Regulation adopted will serve as the basis for further activities, i.e. for building documentation and construction alone. Construction of the motorway section is involved indeed, as you correctly note, in the resolution. So in an additional programme that has no deadline and no financial definitions, this is not an obstacle to not taking this programme forward. In fact, once the State Spatial Plan has been adopted, it will begin on the basis of a resolution itself, such as land acquisition, building permit and for all that is sufficient for the present resolution. The small piece of Phyrn highway is not only built in Slovenia, we believe it must go on without any reservations. And I don't see any problems here, so, in my opinion, the construction of the highway section in the expected deadlines is not at risk.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. I'm glad you don't have to take any changes. I would like to say, for example, when you drive from, I don't know, Split to Slovenia, you come to the Slovenian-Croatian border all the way down the highway, and the border crossing itself is finished at the end of this highway. Then you cross both borders, Croatia and Slovenia, you come to the Slovenian side, and then you see a big board of the European Union, and you continue your journey 13 kilometers along our highway to Ptuj. I have to say, every time I drive there, it kind of squeezes me, I'm embarrassed to come to the European Union and come to such a road. Therefore, my initiatives and questions are well-intentioned, so that things may begin to be dealt with expeditiously. This year will be the tourist season again, there will be a lot of tourists, and it's kind of embarrassing for a man, where he's come now when you come from the Croatian side to Slovenia. That's why I think, Minister, you probably have the will and the power to put this matter among the priorities. That's why I'm not going to ask any more questions today. I even thought we'd discuss this in the National Assembly, but I'm happy with your answer in this segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Minister Patrick Wlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I absolutely accept your comments as well-intentioned, and I also understand them. However, I would like to say that there is absolutely no need for you to be ashamed of this department. In 1994, we started building highways, we have almost a complete cross, we have exemplary motorways. Countries that are much richer than Slovenia have worse motorways. I've been to Canada recently, and it has an immeasurably worse highway than we have. On the other hand, Switzerland, which started to build motorways in 1960 - it has no completed program, and is only 2 times the size of Slovenia. So I think that with our highway program, we can still be satisfied, but let this not be an obstacle so that we do not build this section more quickly or build it within the appropriate time frame.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek will raise a question to the Minister of Transport, Dr. Vlačić.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u149	Thank you for your word. The Honourable Minister. You listed countries where roads are worse, but I think they built in Croatia much faster and much faster than we do in Slovenia. My question is as follows. The outside work must also be affected by the weather, so I did not ask you for months what happened to the completion of the highway cross. It's spring. Winter wasn't the nicest, but I hope, I count and I ask you: Will the motorway section of Ljubljana - The coast be completed until the tourist season?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u150	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Dear Member, the winter has not been pleasant, the winter has been one of the worst in years. I still don't take it as an apology, but the hands are still the same as they were, so that's the end of June. Hopefully, that's how I'm guaranteed so far, doesn't show that anything has to be changed. Not only, perhaps in Croatia, which is repeatedly mentioned as an example of rapid construction, yes, placement in space, yes, but tolls paid on highways in Croatia are extremely high due to really fast construction. However, we are a little bit slower, and we are still doing things quickly, so financial burdens may be a little bit more spread over the years. If we had such tolls as they are in Croatia, I don't know how pleased we would be with that. The annual plan for the development and renewal of the highway still includes Pluska - Ponikve, Ponikve-Krastje, 30. 6. 2010 I hope this date holds, despite the terrible winter. So, on that land that was obtained from Mr Lujar, the embankment is practically made. On about 60% of the route is made asphalt coating. Most of the bridge facilities that could have been made before winter are made. Before winter, other missing land was also acquired, even from Mr Kovacic, so that now ownership and other mysteries are no longer available. All we have to do now is build. Because of the winter conditions, construction work was stopped. These were carried out which, despite low temperatures, could be implemented, such as deep foundations. Given that the weather situation is slowly improving, I expect that more and more intensive activities in this section will also start in very short time. The timetable for this interruption of winter works will be reviewed again. I suppose that some measures will be prepared more quickly if this is to be done because there have been some interruptions. The goal for this department remains as I've told you so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u152	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Jožef Jerovšek, Minister for the Interior, Mrs Katarina Kresal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister, ministers. Dear Minister, 10 days ago, you avoided the answer at the talk in Trbovje, where you skied during the break-up of the Bericevic affair. Of course, you also avoided the question of why you were not guarded by an official security guard, as prescribed for a protected person, but perhaps you were guarded by a private security guard. I expect that you will explain this important fact, but the essence of my question and dismay is aimed at your horrifying statement when you said in the Rippers, quote: "My favorite destination is Namibia; it is known that for a long time it was a German colony and the Germans can establish order." The establishment of order in Germany is known to have been established by the Germans in the years leading up to World War I on the tip of the bayonets, with terror and genocide over the peoples of Herero and Namaqua. More than 10,000 people were killed, just over 80,000, that's more than half the population of both peoples. The rest were sent as slaves to the mines of gold. Your will to power in the role of the Police Minister is being followed by solutions that are frightening and condemned by today's democratic Germany. After this bloody establishment of order in Namibia, which you admire, the Nazis followed in the design of the German order on the so-called Lower Styria and the entire occupied Slovenia. In the role of Namibian blacks, the Nazis pushed the conscious Slovenians. "Make me this country German again, introduce a German order in this country" was based on this appearance cried out April 1941 Hitler in Maribor. These methods from Namibia were an example to the Nazis for the so-called definitive solution to the Jewish question "Endloessung" [[?]] they stressed. Your statement is horrendous and unacceptable and requires the immediate action of the President of the Government of Pahor and the democratic public. The interior minister, and thus the police minister, who admires colonial oppression and bloody police methods, is an unacceptable threat to democracy in Slovenia and compromises Slovenia internationally. Your statement expresses very severe racial intolerance and endorses apartheid because it approves the killing and enslavement of native blacks as lawless people. Because of the frightening and unacceptable statement that you approve of colonial slavery and the establishment of order on the tip of bayonets and your aspirations about the role of police minister, I ask you: Is that why you've already offered to resign from the post of Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u154	Mr Jerovšek, I must remind you that in an important part it was not a question, but an assessment and that many of these assessments were not only unilateral but insulting and I ask the Minister to answer your question as part of his assessment of what is the question and what are the insulting accusations. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Member! Listen to me, and you'll hear me. Since I'm the Minister of the Interior, I'm sorry, I'm always, to my great pleasure, always accompanied by officials everywhere, I don't have private security. Otherwise, as the Chairman has already pointed out, the question raised does not hide its rhetorical grip because it tries to be an answer to itself. And your question raised is based on words excluded from the context, but we are already used to it. In the context of the talk on travel or popular tourist destinations, I mentioned and evaluated Namibia at the meeting in Trbovje, not in terms of the historical role and actions of some nations or even the visions of appropriate social regulation. My values are referred to by my actions and my commitment to the rule of law and consistent respect for human rights, and this is also the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, are you asking for a supplement to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I'm sorry to ask you again: Do you respect people in Slovenia and answer a serious question or are you not aware of such a frightening question? I tell you that Heather gave up in Austria because he said the Germans had it because he was excited about the employment policy in the third Reich. You admire the introduction of the German order. You said you knew Namibia's history well. So you know that too, and I wonder what you're planning to do next to the water cannon to establish your German order in the possible resurgence of the working resistance of the Gorenje type. How do you allow yourself to squander the Slovenians by stressing the knowledge of the German way of establishing order? I'll tell you again, on this basis, the Nazis designed and also carried out the introduction of the German order in Lower Styria. When Hitler cried out, introduce this order in Styria, my father, by the way, was still in the company of one of the more famous farmers, Alfonso Sharha, sitting in the barracks of Meli. For this reason, I cannot accept such insults, and I want you to be aware of the enthusiasm and the power that comes from it. This is unacceptable, and if the democratic public is in Slovenia, in any way and must be affected, then such statements are subject to consistency. Democracy is before that. It's too strong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u158	Madam Minister, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u159	Obviously, I wasn't clear enough in the first part, maybe not loud enough. So I reject your implicit claim that in any way I have taken my stand or even promoted, in connotations, the introduction of order in a German way. I made an assessment of the country's orderliness as a personal one, i.e. an extremely subjective experience of someone who visited this country as a tourist, not from the point of view of an objective historian. In this case, any country could be referred to in positive terms. This history is full of stories about the conquest of European countries, which are to be recorded today by the rule of law. To admire the architectural properties of the Bavarian castles or the Renaissance painting of the Sistine Chapel, it would mean to celebrate a feudal, therefore extremely undemocratic arrangement and the praise of South Africa's tourist offer would be shown to ignore the memory of the apartheid there. We can probably agree that such generalization would be a kind of absurdity.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, Member, would you like to propose a procedural decision?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u161	I do. Thank you very much. Dear Madam Secretary! Your sedition and silent talk, when you can still be loud enough, so I didn't quite hear you, and denying what comes out of your statement, "Namibia knows that for a long time there was a German colony..."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u162	Mr. Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u163	But the Germans know how to establish order. That's the point of a statement. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u164	Mr Jerovšek, you know the Rules of Procedure, and you know that in the proposal for a debate you cannot dispute the content. Please! I'm giving you my first warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u165	I expected you to express at least some empathy for what you said, Madam Minister, which you did not demente in the evening and did not apologize. To ask, and I think you are aware of what politicians in democratic countries have done for such statements. And because of this incomplete response, of course, I demand that a general debate be held on this horrifying understanding of the establishment of order and the outcome. There he is. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u166	Thank you very much. You made a proposal. Your proposal, Mr Jerovšek, will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the vote and decided whether or not to discuss the Minister's response. Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Daniel Krivec, Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u167	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister! In 2004, the current government, by amending the Environmental Protection Act, transferred the provision of chimney services as a compulsory economic public service from the municipalities to the country. Such an arrangement has led to many irregularities in practice. There is a general public opinion that the interests of consumers are not at the forefront, but, above all, the interests of large smokers. From many Slovene municipalities comes calls and warnings from many citizens that because of the new system they have lost their local chimney, because the tender was unsuccessful and received a larger company from another place. Specific cases point to discriminatory treatment in the tendering procedure, and this is also indicated by administrative disputes that have occurred in individual cases. Given that the services are monopolistic, there is a lot of dissatisfaction by users, in particular with regard to the prices of services, which they consider to be significantly too high. However, the problem is not only in inadequate quality and too expensive services, but the original problem is, I think, in a concept that introduces a monopoly in an area that could work better, and especially cheaper if these services were available to all, on the basis of licences or permits, and users themselves would choose a specific provider of these services. In May 2009, your predecessor set up a working group for the comprehensive regulation of the chimney service, which is to plan appropriate measures or amendments, and the deadline for the preparation of the proposals, amendments and additions to the legislation and regulations was October 2009. Operators of concessionaires shall be subject to applications for unilateral interruptions and withdrawals from contracts. They shall derogate so that they can re-apply to the next invitation to tender. Why does the ILO not terminate the concessions for reasons of non-compliance with the obligations set out in it? For there is absurdity, the ILO justifies that the cleaning service can be performed by the party itself and that the concessionaire must be allowed to perform and pay at least for the examination. In no way shall the cleaning services be performed by the concessionaire with the applicable trade permit and with the reputation he has with the satisfied party and has invited him to do so. In the tenders, there should be a disputed point which takes into account the education of all employees in the company and not just chimneys, and the number of staff the company will provide on the ground. I'm asking: How many times has the working group met, and what are its conclusions or suggestions? What rules will be amended, and in what way? What are some ways in which marriages or marriages may change so that services may be valued in some way? What are the options or what will you do to change the concessions granted into licences or licences that are not territorially restricted? How pleased are you with the supervision of the provision of chimney services? Do you think the penalties for concessionaires are appropriate? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The Minister for Environment and Space, Dr. Roko Žarnic, will be responsible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Krivec, I am extremely grateful for these questions, I seriously mean it. When I came to the Ministry, I was surprised that this is one of the hottest and smoky areas in our ministry, and I am actually afraid that five minutes is not enough time to answer you all, I will try to answer something as much as I can. Secondly, I would be happy if you put this issue into two questions and we will have 10 minutes. When I came to the Ministry and asked why the problem was, they told me that it was a matter of very strong interests, you yourself said interesting prices. I'm sorry the government moved this from the congregations. I have learned that even colleagues who are active in this matter have been under very severe pressure. It's a very hot thing. I'll try it in a row. The Commission met three times, last in 2009, in June, and has not met since. The Commission is independent, we have half the members in it, depending on the President of the Commission, and unfortunately here I will try to encourage the Commission to continue its meeting. But I'm afraid I can't achieve anything. So much for that question. With regard to amendments, the two laws or regulations, the Regulation on the manner, object and conditions of implementation of the State economic obligation and so on and another regulation. For both documents, we decided to move forward in 2010 in view of the commission's inaction and to propose amendments. What are the chances that the acts will change? I have to say that the chimney lobby is extremely strong and this is about prices, for the price list. I have to say, we've changed the price list and that's why we're being sued, the Ministry is being sued by smokers. The question is, with very good lawyers, if they don't press charges. By the way, if you get €33 to €78 in five, ten minutes, you'd sue too. But despite this, the crust is valid, and we move on and try to fix something. With existing contractors, this is a fact, they have signed concession contracts which are asymmetrically binding mainly on the concessionaire as a country, less on concessionaires. Don't ask why. The Concession Age is eight years, you can say, because you wrote this thing. Yeah, she signed up at the Ministry, but if I was a minister at the time, I wouldn't sign up like that. I'm also handling some personnel matters, but I'm afraid I don't have the toolkit to deal with matters of the Ministry as I wish. Half of these contracts are in force in the fourth year; the second half was signed only in 2008 and 2009 for eight years. So we can be sharp, we're threatened with lawsuits, we lose them. The idea of licenses has been played, we're thinking about what we could do in this direction. Two things we can do are to establish electronic records of the owners of the combustion plants and the current records of the works performed on the ground. I wonder why the number of fires has been rising in the last four years. Something's not right here!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Krivec, would you like to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u171	First, I would like to thank the Minister for his corrective response, but above all, he is sincere. I am pleased that he agrees that the problem is a pressing one to be solved. I am concerned that this independent commission does not actually work, which is what the Minister also cares about. As for the regulation and regulations, this is a substance adopted by the Ministry, and I believe that the Minister will be able to see to it that the Regulation and the Rules are resolved in some way. However, it is also likely that the State is overcoming any lawyer so that certain chimney lobby attacks may in some way be rejected, resolved or taken up some part of the risk in such cases and that the regulation is somehow "adjusted" because an eight-year concession is written in the regulation and regulation. In the law itself, I don't think it was written. I am pleased with the answers, but I would like to propose, and the Minister has in some ways agreed that the topic is hot and that an extensive debate should be held on this issue, perhaps on the Committee. I will propose that it be held in plenary, but I will insist on the Committee that this issue be reopened.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u172	Mr. Žarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I have two papers, they have a long-term address, and I haven't read it. A Regulation amending the Regulation with a long title, as well as the Regulation amending the Regulation, is being drawn up. We'll try to arrange both key documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Magajna will ask the Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič, who is absent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u175	Thank you for your word. I will still read the question, because it concerns not only the appointed Minister of Health, but also the attitude and the broader issue of the legislative and executive relationship. I mean, what's this all about? The respected minister is absent for health reasons, and I am sorry, even so, even if someone may illly point out that all those to whom we ask constant questions contribute to his feelings. That's probably partly true. Nevertheless, the question is broader. Mr Borut Miklavčič, Minister of Health, submitted the proposal for a Health Act to the government procedure, ahead of the public presentation of opinions due after 15 March 2010. Moreover, even the introduction of the law into the parliamentary procedure is announced in a short period of time. This procedure was followed by an agreement at the 5th ordinary meeting of the Health Committee on 17. 2. In view of the above, I ask for an answer, i.e. a written reply: Why and to what initiative has there been a change of order, i.e. ignoring the agreement of the Health Committee? The law, which went to the government for confirmation, should be based on the assessment and opinions obtained in the public debate. This is also the point of a public presentation. In a willful change in the order of activity, there is also some kind of contemptible attitude towards Parliament, towards the legislative authority. It should be noted that the Minister also held a debate on the Economic and Social Council. The debate has already taken place, the partners have made critical comments and it has been agreed that the Economic and Social Council will discuss this fully, but it is not. The case was referred to the government procedure, which is an exceptional precedent in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u176	Thank you very much. As requested, you will receive a written reply from the absent Minister within 30 days. The next question will be asked by Mr Marijan Bezjak, Minister of Economy, Dr Matei Lahovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u177	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Secretary of Economy Dr. Matej Lahovnik. Does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia claim that the national project for the construction of the Oreh Economic Centre in Podravje, which was one of the draft resolutions on national development projects 2007-2023, was deleted from the resolution and classified as regional projects? What does this mean for this project, which is supposed to bring about 3,200 new jobs to Podravje?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u178	Here you go, Mr. Lachovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr Marjan Bezjak, Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, concludes that the national project for the construction of the Oreh Economic Centre would be deleted from the resolution on national development projects for the period 2007 to 2023. I must also say that a report on the state of play on individual projects, so-called resolution projects, on the basis of which the Government Development Service and the economic affairs led by the Minister for Development will prepare a motion for a resolution, or on the basis of this state of affairs, a revised motion for a resolution, but the Ministry does not plan to delete the draft from the resolution. I must also say that the financing of these projects is an important source, as you know, of the Structural Funds. That is also why I believe that you are rightly asking this question. I must say that due to the transparency of the procedures, funding for individual projects will be allocated on the basis of a call for proposals. The inclusion of the project itself in the resolution does not confer any advantage on the project. The projects listed in the resolution are also indicative, which means that they give direction to ministries, but do not automatically give them any advantage in the invitation to tender. Tenders will be published in a short time and this project will also be able to run on an equal footing with all other projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. The Resolution of National Development Projects states that regional development is proposed, not national development. Yeah, look, in Styrian, we can do a lot of things on our own. You need to know that we're going to fund the university ourselves. The government has a very thin ear for this. We will also finance and create this regional development centre of Oreh by ourselves, because the Government or Ljubljana has a bad hearing for it. I can't understand why last year the government actually classified many buildings as a national programme for the city of Ljubljana, and I don't know why. Look, the Styrians are capable of everything, believe me, so we will also make a proposal to make an autonomous province of Styria, and we already have an economy minister, and then we will start if there is no hearing for Styria. I don't know, I think you're trying to cut us off, cut us off from the world, but believe me, we've been through a lot, and we're gonna do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Dr. Lakhovnik, would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u183	Maybe just that, all the projects that will be prepared within this economic centre and which will be appropriate, say, "ready to go" - ready to do with all the relevant documents, this also means building and site documentation, and which will contribute adequately to the increase of added value in the region and to the creation of new jobs, will run equally. And all good projects will be chosen. There was no project lined up. As far as our ministry is concerned, I must say that we have not included any project in this resolution or any other project in the municipality of Ljubljana. By not favouring this city, however, it will be important that all the good projects on this call will be notified and that they will also be adequately prepared. I must say, we recently issued a public call. The results of this call shall be carefully analysed. They show that the projects are different and that those who are ready will have the opportunity to be selected. But where the project is not ready, of course it will not be able to be selected, but the call will be public and equal for all.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u185	Thank you. Look, I absolutely agree that you, as a minister yourself, did not have an impact on these facilities, which were somehow put under the state from the city of Ljubljana. Of course, I cannot understand at all because it says here that you will put a proposal on a regional, this Oreh, regional development strategy. It is true that we have been working in Slovenia for some time now with regions to establish regions. That is why my proposal was why we are struggling with the regions, we will establish an autonomous province of Styria, and there will be no need to regulate the regions in Slovenia. I would like to put this question of mine in the National Assembly, in a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Bezjak, I cannot put your proposal to the vote because it is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, the National Assembly does not discuss your proposals, but the answers, but the answers to our questions did not concern us. Mr Franz Jurša has the next question. It will be set up by the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u187	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In 2006, the Wine Act, the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, entered into force with which three wine-growing countries were preserved. The change was made in wine-growing environments when it came from fourteen wine-growing areas of the current nine environments, among which it created a larger wine-growing environment of Styria Slovenia. The following wine-growing environments were merged in the wine-growing environment: Ljutomersko-Ormoška, Mariborski, Radgonsko-Kapelski, Šmarsko-Virsteinski, Haloze, Premurski, Ptuj - medium Slovenian mountains. The wine-growing environment of Štajerska Slovenija was then opposed by private vineyards, but they were not heard and echoed the opinion of individuals who supported the extraordinary environment of Štajerska Slovenija. The winegrowers of the Ljutomer-Ormö environment not only proposed the preservation of the Ljutomer-Ormö wine-growing environment, but also the change of name in the Jerusalem Mountains or Jerusalem. Graduators from their experience after these three years of validity of the Wine and Response Act find that the name Jerusalem is better known than Styria Slovenia and that wines from this area would be better marketed and promoted under the name Jerusalem. The wine-growing environment is defined in the Wine Act, while the surrounding areas and positions are defined in the Regulation on the List of Geographical Indications for Wine and Cane Selection. According to the Law on Wine and its 8th Article, which denotes geographical indications, we believe that in amending the law, economic eligibility was more justified than professional interpretation, since in no case can we talk about the same or similar climate and soil conditions, if we compare Ljutomerska, Ormoška Gorica against Mariborski. On the basis of long-term measurements of the maturity of grapes, they grow in Ljutomersko-Ormoška gorica even after fourteen days earlier than in other parts of the wine-growing environment of Styria Slovenija. Also, other mature factors are more beneficial than elsewhere. The question is: Whether the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, in accordance with Articles 8 and 9 of the Wine Act, is prepared to accede to the change in wine-growing environments and to re-establish the wine-growing and surrounding areas of Jerusalem, which was in the area of the former Ljutomer-Ormö wine-growing environment, as set out by 2006. If the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is willing to listen to the needs of vineyards for the continuation of their existence and the needs of tourism, I am interested in: How long does it take to restore Jerusalem’s vineyard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Dr. Milan Pogačnik, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President. Mr President, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Indeed, the Wine Act was adopted in 2006 and three wine areas were also established at that time and, of course, wine-growing areas. Now, as mentioned, the wine-growing environment Ljutomer - Ormož lives in the wine-growing environment of Styria Slovenia. In any event, the drafter of the law had certain objectives at the time, in particular having a key objective to concentrate production and thereby reduce administrative restrictions and to reduce fragmentation. Slovenia is known, of course, for a large number of outstanding wine-growing areas, but what really stings Slovenia is this fragmentation of this wine-making industry. I would also say that it was possible, however, to use the term Ljutomer-Ormož, as well as the title Ljutomer-Ormož, as well as the name Jerusalem, in addition to the title of Styria Slovenia, for superior wine produced within the wine-growing position. The 2001 rule even allowed wine produced in the Ljutomer-Ormož area to be marked with the name Jerusalem. It is said that the name was only not lost and on this side it is recognised, it is on the market and it has preserved its name. Certainly, if, as your proposal goes in this direction, if you set up a new wine-growing environment in Jerusalem, you would have to remove it from the wine-growing environment of Styria, Slovenia, which would limit the existing labelling of wine from this area. The main purpose of the production and integration of wine production in Slovenia is in particular to enable producers to better enter the European Union market. We have a lot of activity in this area. For example, the country invests particularly much money in the promotion of Slovenian wine in third markets, EUR 3 million per year being distributed for this purpose. And we are trying to overcome this fragmentation of production, which is undoubtedly the main problem of Slovenian wine-growing. Of course, on the other hand, boutique production has achieved exceptional success and also far higher prices. I am pleased that this government has assured wine growers that no excise duty has to be paid. This significantly improves the economic situation of winemakers and winegrowers in Slovenia and compares us with those countries that are considered to be countries of wine, countries of wine, and Slovenia is among them. Well, anyway, I was taught that in adopting the law in 2006, the Ministry took into account the majority opinion of producers, as I said, as a possibility of greater integration. However, it has been four years since the marriage, and situations can change. Manufacturer's difficulties are different. And I don't think any of this is forever. As Minister, I am certainly prepared to listen to the right arguments, to say the needs of vineyards in the drafting of legislation, especially if this really contributes, as you state in your proposal, to better and more successful development, and to better enforcement and recognition of Slovenian wines in European and global space. The amendment of the Wine Act is not included in the Ministry's 2010 programme, but initiatives that would always be argued are worthy of this debate. I would like to say something else that I am pleased that the market purchase of wine during the crisis increased from 12 million litres last year to 411 litres this year. In this direction we are somehow trying to maintain and increase the production of wine in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u191	I thank the Minister for his reply, but I would like to point out that the previous 14 wine-growing environments have created 9 wine-growing environments and that the environment I have mentioned is relatively large and that I think that the proposal from our side is a proposal from the wine-growers, well founded and that I expect the ministry to include it in the preparation of the new document, says the new Wine Act this year or next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u192	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u193	Thank you very much for this addition. I have already said that it is certainly useful, to the extent that this contributes to better promotion and also to the placement of Slovenian wine, that we are ready to talk in this direction and I propose a joint discussion in which we can find the right arguments whether such an approach is necessary or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill will ask the Transport Minister Dr Patrick Vlačič a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u195	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Dear ministers, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Slovenian railways are obviously a very big resource for this government, too, for your department, Mr. Minister, and obviously also for you personally, because problems are increasing in Slovenian railways from day to day. The losses have already amounted to more than €10 million per year. Infrastructure is still critical in many sections, we do not see any vision of when the second track from Kopra will be built, and you obviously, at least so detected in the media, have decided to try to find a solution with the help of a global company. To this end, you have published an international invitation to tender with a number of domestic and foreign companies. We just read today in the media that you finally, at least as I understand it, chose an advisory firm, and I will not call it for advertising to this company, for which you will pay 1.2 million euros. In doing so, I am; and I believe that the Slovenian public is also interested in: How was this company selected? Then: What were the criteria? For the very assessment that the key criterion was the lowest, it seems very questionable to me because if you do not know or if we do not know what we expect this consulting firm to present to us in the end, then I expect that this will be a solution that will be acceptable to us, Slovenia, which will make some progress in the development of the Slovenian railways. But because this, at least in the information we've been tracking in the media, wasn't detectable, but of course I'm asking: Are there, in particular, some specific objectives, some vision or you have, or the Government has, on the basis of which you will then be able to assess whether that product of this advisory firm is satisfactory? Will it be realized? Because the experience I personally have with such companies has not always been positive, there has been a lot of money, and in the end the product has also been unusable. Therefore, I ask you if you can explain to me and also to the Slovenian public: What do you expect? How, then, will it proceed further? What time was this product supposed to be on the table? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Transport, Dr. Patrick Vlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u197	Thank you very much, President. Thank you for that question. I will be happy to describe a few things because it seems to me that it is only important when it comes to big money, that we speak these things in public. The choice of an international invitation to tender for the value of the contract requires the law on public procurement and we have decided to proceed with the negotiation procedure after the previous publication, in particular because this procedure allows the contracting authority to negotiate the price of the contract. And to some extent coordinate the content as well as other elements of the invitation to tender. However, the selection criteria were the price, but under extremely demanding entry conditions. In this way, we have ruled out those who would not be able to perform the rehabilitation. The entry conditions have been at least two rehabilitations of comparable railway undertakings over the last two years. In doing so, we had another entry condition; at least one project leader with at least 10 years of experience in the field of railways and at least one project led by this specific leader with the rehabilitation of railways. At least 5 key experts who will participate in the execution of the contract, with at least two projects in the last ten years. Thus, under such strict conditions, in fact, all those who do not have much experience in this area are excluded. These entry conditions were brought in by basically eight bidders who had given indicative prices. And if I make it a little easier to say what our request was for this public invitation to tender, it was a quick business conversion, a socially acceptable solution for redundant workers and assistance in the implementation of the reorganisation or the new structure of Slovenian railways, in accordance with the instructions of the owner, which will be in accordance with European Union rules. A little more detailed, I may now say a little bit more simply, but basically that's what this is all about. When we got their first "inputs" all eight of them signed up to meet these conditions. When we obtained these preliminary prices and their suggestions on how to make this recovery and how they imagined it, we made a consolidated new demand based on what we wanted, very much as we did before, but in more detail what we want from them in this programme. Then we invited them to negotiate. The negotiations took place in such a way that we had only one round of negotiations, that we drew the order in front of the camera, that we put each bidder in our room, that we filmed this circle by negotiating in front of the camera with their consent and that everything was recorded. And that there was only one circle. Each bidder came in and told his price. It's all on camera. When we finished this circle, we called them together and told them what those prices were. Then these prices, which they had proposed there, had to be sent out on a formal basis. That was, uh, last Wednesday was the last time for the show. At one o'clock was the last time for the show, and we didn't get everyone. In the meantime, we have eliminated one because it did not meet those first conditions when we requested additional requirements, ours. While some of the final bidders did not formally make such an offer as they did during the negotiations. That's the nicest thing I've ever said was for a million two hundred. It is therefore an international economic society, which also has its own business unit in our country, but with sufficiently demanding references or with sufficient references from experts to expect them to be able to carry out this task successfully. But let me say one thing about railways, if I still have enough time. In the last few years, only when it was always said that the railways in 2004 had been repaired did we talk about this on the railways today. Look, railways have 350 million euros in debt. Of course, in the face of such a heavy burden, so much of an obligation to do business, even if, for example, it were completely profitable, from this classical business, without burden, which could also happen, it is virtually impossible to do so. That way, we will have to say something in the National Assembly. That railways, if we want them to move forward, will have to be well repaired, not only by helping us improve business processes now, but also by turning them around. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] And good solutions, socially acceptable, for overworked workers. [[...]] But in this country we will have to take these railways seriously as a system that is simply over-indebted. I think we need modern, good railways. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I myself would like these solutions to help us to recover, but to adopt some solutions that will bring our railways to a better level than we have. However, I fear that there are so many strangers here, there is no guarantee that at the end, when this company gives you some product to say, this is what we want. I'd like to know what you'll do if you judge that the matter is not acceptable. Can we forget about these million 200,000 euros or not? Why am I saying this? This particular consulting company, I don't want to name it, participated in the company where I was employed alone. 3,000 employees. For six months, all the employees or managers worked for their various surveys, questionnaires, and ultimately their product: there must be a thousand of them in the end, which means to fire 2,000. And a few more such proposals that we have just summarized. After that, look, this case was unacceptable, and today this company is still doing it the way it used to. That is why I fear that some of the solutions that are impossible to implement will be unacceptable here, and we will face the same problem as today. Above all, I did not see any response to the time when they should have presented this product to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u200	Please, Minister of Transport Dr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Thanks for the extra time to explain. Time is a year and a half, the whole, by the fact that it's the last half year - I apologize if I miss a month, but the last half of the year is to observe the effect and 40% of the payment is paid after a half-year period when we decide whether the recovery was successful or not. 40% of this payment is after six months, while the remaining 60% is after stages. Every time we estimate that the phase was successful, we go to pay. The contracting authority shall assess whether the phase has been successful or not. So, we're going through the sections. This isn't about the whole thing. I repeat: phased, in one year, then half a year of observation and finally 40% if recovery was successful. I think that some hundreds of thousands of euros or just over a hundred thousand euros is also a guarantee on their part for a successful business. That was our request.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Grill? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u203	Thank you. Look, Mr Minister, I think that the general debate on this question that you have tried to answer could be of great benefit to you, and to the government, and not least to this company. I therefore propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that we hold a debate here on the solutions that would be considered to be trying to implement them in the rehabilitation and reorganisation of the Slovenian Railways, so I ask that the coalition also confirm this and that this will be widely discussed here and that, as I have already mentioned, this can help everyone together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u204	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Ivan Grill to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Patrick Vlačič to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, on 2 March 2010, in the framework of the votes. Franz Bogovic will ask the Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Food a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u205	Good evening, Mr President, to you, distinguished ministers, as well as colleagues and colleagues. My question relates to the current topic, which is in the Slovenian space, which relates to the potential acquisition or redemption of majority share in Ljubljana's dairy farms, because Slovenia, first of all as a forest country, is a country with a lot of grass worlds, in particular with a lot of areas with so-called limited factors, where the traditional livestock sector is practically the only sector that guarantees that these areas will be processed. The dairy industry is the number one sector in agriculture, and we are all aware of this and today there are three large dairy industries in Slovenia, among others: Ljubljana, Celje and Pomurje dairy and cooperatives or cooperative sector, both in Celje and in Pomurské mlačna and also in most European countries, dairy farms are largely owned by the company. In view of the property transformation in the past, the situation today in Slovenia's largest dairy sector, which processes almost half of Slovenian milk, is such that four financial companies, which also own more than 50% of Ljubljana's dairy shares, today have a closed package to sell, and I know that there is so much activity going on both among farmers, among cooperatives within the framework of the Association with Basic Ambition and the desire that this equity share try to buy back so that it does not happen in the desire of both Slovenian and South-Eastern markets, where it is also a good source of Ljubljana's dairy with its products, so that this market with some hostile takeover would take over some hostile dairy which would take over this dairy only in its desire for this market, but not after the further development of the Slovenian cattle sector. Given that the financial situation for agriculture is quite severe and that the assessment, including those seeking to bring together this financial structure for the purchase of this share, is such that farmers and cooperatives will find it difficult to enter and buy this share by themselves and ask the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry and Food: Does the Ministry consider anything in this direction in order to try, together with the mentioned stakeholders in this process, to include the country through its funds and in some way - or for a longer period of time or at least one interim period of time, to take over and assist in the acquisition of this important food processing facility in Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, Dr. Milan Pogačnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u207	Halla beautiful, Mr. President. Thank you very much also to Mr Ambassador Bogovic for the question. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is, of course, responsible for the area you mentioned. Of course, it deals with all these issues, including the important issue of livestock farming. I absolutely agree that with regard to the confederation, geographical location and even climate of Slovenia, livestock farming is one of the most important industries in Slovenian agriculture. This is why we are paying particular attention in some way, and this is why we are trying to engage in these difficult times for Slovenian agriculture in such a way as to ensure that producers also receive subsidies that are somehow obtained on the basis of these applications and through the participation of European funds as soon as possible. Like, for example, we managed to divide 90% of the OMD in November, December, which was the first time in the field of agriculture. Just as we care about the appropriate situation in the area of improved agricultural status and agricultural production, we are also aware of the food processing industry as an integral part of this chain. In this chain comes to, you know, big dysfunctions, irregular distribution of incomes and especially profits. And we absolutely support at the Ministry that the ownership of farmers is exercised, and then through a cooperative organisation, through cooperatives, also in the ownership of dairy farms, which are important for the processing of Slovenian milk. True, Ljubljanske mlekarne is one of the major dairy producers, 53% of Slovenian milk-producing purchases. It is also true that we are exporting 31% to Italy, and I am pleased that the price has stabilised. In November, we note that the average price of milk of the actual quality, an ex-milk shop in which already the transport cost of the purchase has increased to €27 to €28, was €26 to €27 for the previous three months. [[...]] In short, we stabilized that critical situation in February. In the next three months, we are forecasting a price rise, at least that is how we are talking to the dairy industry, and I think that somehow the situation will be better and more stable. This is why it is of particular importance to us, of course, that Slovenian dairy companies remain somehow in the largest ownership, as I have already said, of producers or producers and through cooperatives and through agricultural cooperatives. This is also why we are immediately at the beginning of these activities, which Mr Bogovic is well aware of, because in these discussions, at least in other environments, he participates intensively and I think he is also. We, too, have engaged in this conversation with the president of the cooperative relationship, Mr Scream and I had a very serious conversation about this a month and a half ago, two months ago. He introduced me to the situation, introduced me to the possibilities that growers have, and then, of course, also to the Association of Slovenia, others regarding the entry into the majority ownership of Ljubljana dairy. Of course, as a member of the government, I also had a proper conversation with the Minister of Finance. I must say that the Minister of Finance, as well as the Ministry of Finance, are satisfied with the activities they are doing. Certainly, the Minister of Finance supports purchases and says that so far buyers have sufficient credit potential for this purpose. Undoubtedly, it is an interest that, as I said, ownership of the majority takeover, but so far the state funds have not received a direct call for cooperation. If all those who organise the purchase of milk and the Association of Slovenia will be interested, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Finance will definitely want to support this proposal and will participate. But more than that, it would be difficult for me to talk about the interviews that are taking place.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask the Minister of Education and Sport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u209	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! The exit strategy pays particular attention to knowledge, both in seeking greater competitiveness of the economy and in training for adapting the labour market. If we are looking at education in an integrated way, that means, which includes education, training, research, development and innovation, I am actually only interested at this point in time in the first segment of what is called education, and in this part, higher vocational education has a special place, given that it covers a specific segment of the population. According to data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, published on 26 February this year, 7 students were enrolled in Slovenian higher vocational schools in the 2009/2010 study year. The ratio between those enrolled in private schools and those in public schools and schools with concessions is about one quarter to three quarters. 45% of students are enrolled on a regular basis. However, what I find interesting is information that goes beyond the usual idea of which directions are most popular when entering higher education vocational programmes. There is not such a very different sociology with all the different variants, but, interestingly, there are also natural sciences, mathematics, technical sciences and technology in almost the same percentage. But I don't see the core of the problem in this. Higher education is faced with the same problem as higher education programmes. In fact, the effectiveness of this study, the re-entry, the financing, the relationship between public and private, and this is what I am most interested in in this issue, Mr. Secretary-General: What does the Ministry intend to do with regard to higher education, given that Slovenia reaches a relatively high percentage of the population covered by education between 15 and 24 compared to Europe? However, I am particularly interested in the fact that the national adult education programme is now being or will expire: What is the Ministry's intention in this resolution to prepare new or encouraging indicators for further improvement? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Education and Sport Dr. Igor Lukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u211	Your Honor, thank you for asking. President, Members of Parliament. According to the Ministry of Education and Sport, the network of public higher education schools has become overcrowded in recent years, there are too many performers, especially since a network of private higher schools has developed on the public network, with the exception of two, all of which conduct exceptional studies. Today there are 29 public and 31 private higher schools implementing a total of 26 programmes. The number of regular and extraordinary students has increased in recent years. Public higher education is funded by a Kosovo principle for the implementation of a regular higher education study, which is based on the number of students enrolled and the number of graduates enrolled. The criterion for funding is the 2-fold number of students in the second year. In this way, attempts are made to limit the fictitious entry, which is also not resolved in this way. This is one of the major problems that we will face - if I go into this segment now to the question of what we will do in the new legislation, we must solve the issue of fictitious entry as well as in higher education and we will do so. Also financial information. In 2009, public schools received EUR 15 million 480 000 for the implementation of higher education programmes. Two private vocational schools are funded by the Ministry of Education and Sport for Regular Students on the basis of concessions granted in previous mandates. In 2009, these two higher vocational schools received EUR 900,000, almost a million. The price per student is the same as for public schools. This year's concessions, even because of the lack of funds and also because the problem of fictitious entry is not regulated, we did not grant them. The Ministry does not finance an extraordinary study - not to public or private schools. The financial uncertainty that you are referring to in your Member's question, honourable Member, is, in our opinion, not related to the financing of a regular study, but to the financing of an extraordinary study, in particular the financing of private higher education. Concessions in the field of education and education are regulated by the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Now, about what we're gonna do. We are preparing amendments to the Higher Education Act, which is intended to regulate the uniform records of students in higher education, student rights in the manner regulated in higher education, the criteria and the manner in which concessions are awarded and, most importantly, the criteria for the establishment of schools and for the adoption, clearance and implementation of study programmes. The Ministry of Education and Sport in the Resolution on the National Adult Education Programme for Extraordinary Higher Education Studies does not intend to place. The Resolution on the National Adult Education Programme provides for co-financing of tuition fees to increase the educational deficit, which does not include tertiary education. Adult education will continue to be mainly financed by ESF funds, for which we need to slowly get used to being really part of the budget, and these are not European funds, but should be taken slowly as an integral part of the budget. In addition, I would like to say that vocational secondary education is in crisis and the need to move to higher education levels. They are also foraciously higher schools, especially professional schools, which are part of the public network, and we want to keep it that way, because we don't want it to happen the way it did in the past, when higher schools became high and then colleges and we lost the whole segment of higher schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm sorry if I listened badly and didn't hear the time in which you predicted changes to the law. But I don't think you mentioned him. I also understand the financial embarrassment that has not led to the call for new higher education programmes, but I am coming from an environment where quite a few new higher education vocational programmes have been developed, for which those who have prepared them believe that they have appropriate professional qualifications, including the appropriate spatial possibilities not to mention some cases of equipped laboratories, including the interconnection between different secondary schools that develop such higher education vocational programmes, have been achieved. However, this may show ineffectiveness over time or a fall in will to develop new programmes if such a trend of non-description of new programmes continues. I understand that what is left to competition in the private sphere is also between educational institutions offering similar or related programmes, but I would ask you for this part if you could answer me, and I also understand that in the resolution on adult education you have made it clear to those programmes that go to higher education. However, I am still very upset by the data from the 2008 report on the implementation of adult education, where [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] driving exams are still at the top of education. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u214	Thank you. Minister, Dr. Luksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u215	Thanks for the extra question. If we start from behind and connect with those indicators mentioned in the first part of the questions. We, in our country and also in the European Union, have one problem called replacing qualitative indicators with quantitative ones. According to quantitative indicators, we are very good in the field of education, but we have not developed quality indicators throughout the European Union and we have also developed quality indicators. So, do we get better numbers, better percentages of high school graduates, including high school graduates, or do we have a higher level of education? Unfortunately, we have to find out that we don't. That's one thing. And that is precisely why and this seems important to me to find out, which is why it seems to me that the number of programmes is expanding both in secondary education and in primary education, and also what is not my department, in higher education is a very poor criterion for measuring or measuring the development and quality of our education. That is why we also "stopped the horses" this year, did not call for new programmes, nor did we encourage schools to develop new programmes. I think it's right that those schools that have some good experience, good diplomats, stay at it. In fact, the generations that are coming are less numerous and it will also be important not to crush the program. It's the same for colleges. And that's why we didn't call for new programs in schools this year. This will be done slowly, with wisdom and simplicity, I think we should stop what has been going on in the last 10 years, especially in the last four years, when we've been doing new programs, with new colleges, with new high schools, with new programs in high schools, and now it turns out that it wasn't the wisest. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlič will ask a question from the Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has ordered in one of its decisions that the legislator should specify more precisely the criteria on the basis of which the municipalities can determine whether the Romani community is inhabited in their territory. It will also have to assess whether other criteria, such as organisation, number of members and so on, should be required to exercise the specific right of the Roma community to a representative in the municipal council. I quote what the Constitutional Court wrote. As you know, the legislator did not do so in 2002 and adopted a new Law on Local Self-Government, which referred to 20 municipalities to provide a representative post to the representative of the Roma community. The Constitutional Court further held in the following decision that the statement of municipalities itself was not disputed, but added that it would be disputed if the municipalities were listed in the law as arbitrary, i.e. without criteria. Thus, it stated: "The contested regulation would affect the rights of the local community if the legislator established such municipalities arbitrarily, that is, without first ascertaining whether there is an indigenous Roma community in the territory of a municipality or if such municipalities included municipalities in which the indigenous Roma community did not reside." A similar position was taken by the Constitutional Court in one of the following decisions. Since, after eight years, the criteria on which the so - called Roma congregations in the Local Self - Administration Act were established were still no longer available, I ask you about the criteria on which the so - called Roma congregations were established.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, Dr. Henrik Gjerkesh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u219	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, Dr. Verlich. At the time of the drafting of the amendment of the law, which later established municipalities with the Roma Councillor, namely the Law on Local Self-Government of 2002, it was carried out in consultation between the Institute for Nationality Affairs, the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationality and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and on professional starting points to determine the uniform criteria for the autonomy of the Roma community in a particular area, that the criteria used by some other countries to determine the autonomy of the Roma population in Slovenia are not appropriate due to the different population practices of members of the Roma community. Such criteria, which contain counting, mandatory identification and determination of the period of permanent residence in a specific area, are also not in line with the legal principle and guidelines of the recommendations of the Council of Europe and other international organisations concerned with the enforcement of Roma rights. On finding that the criteria and criteria for the provision of autonomy could not be drawn up in such a form as to exclude both interference with the personal rights of an individual or of the Roma community as a whole and the possibility of arbitral and thus unequal decision-making of municipal councils, it was decided that the law should determine the areas of municipalities in which, due to the traditional living Roma community, it was necessary to ensure its right to represent her in the municipal council. The results of research and archival materials of individual field studies of the Institute for Nationality Affairs and findings of the Office of Nationality based on the identified problems of the Roma community in individual municipalities were used to identify areas in which indigenous Roma communities live. Decision of 22 April 2001 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia was also transmitted to all municipalities where it was assessed that members of the Roma community lived. 3. 2001 together with a letter recommending to the municipalities to verify the autonomy of members of the Roma community in a specific area, i.e. if Roma live in the municipality for a longer period, the number of Roma in the municipality, their organisation and other specificities, which would be relevant for the establishment of municipalities in accordance with the above-mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court. The congregation’s responses also served as a basis for the establishment of a list of municipalities included in Article 14 of the Law on Local Self - Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Dr. Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u221	Thank you very much for your answer. So, there is still no answer to which criteria have been set. You referred to some, if I understand, to some questionnaire to the municipalities, to some studies, but I don't understand why you didn't translate this into criteria for each of the Slovene municipalities to check, by law of course, whether the indigenous Roma community lives there or not. It may be interesting that in one of the interviews, on television, the representative of the Roma Union said in a 24-hour show that he should also be a Roma saint in Ljubljana, Maribor and Velenj. How come he's not here? And if we refer to the most reliable document, and this is the census, we can find that in some municipalities, when we look at the census, Roma have not been defined as Roma at all, as was the case in the municipality of Grosuplje. The Council of Europe Framework Convention also protects all those who say that they can voluntarily decide what they will be. And that the legislator does not actually have the right to arbitrarily decide for someone that there will be a Roma if it does not want to be. In short, it is not that, it is that the criteria are set for all Slovene municipalities equally. And the answer, which is in place, how is it that, say, in some municipalities, Ljubljana, Maribor, Velenje, there is no Romani saint. So, I'm asking, clearly, by the criteria.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Gjerkesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u223	Thank you. The representative of the Roma community you mentioned also said that he himself wondered what autonomy meant for Roma, given that they were a nomadic nation. And the very concept of the problem of Roma, the concept of autonomy is neither in Slovenia nor abroad in any document clearly defined. Experts rely on the term "historical or traditional settlement" in the absence of an official explanation. This was also the case in this case, as the Constitutional Court also found in the decision recently issued concerning the Municipality of Grosuplje, where it confirms the correctness of the decision and at the same time advises or directs the municipality that, if it does not agree, it should initiate an official procedure to amend the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Would you like to make a procedural proposal? Please, Dr. Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Of course, you answered what the Constitutional Court actually replied, but you did not answer where the criteria were and why the legislator did not want to define them. You know, this is not one of the municipalities where Roma have not been defined as Roma, as is the case in the municipality of Grosuplje, and the census of 2002 was determined by the legislator to have a Roma councillor. It is the municipalities that I have previously listed, Ljubljana, Maribor and Velenje, where the 2002 census is based, if I am not wrong to identify them as Roma, but they do not have their own saint. And here is the question, as a minister responsible for local self-government, that regardless of whether these criteria of autonomy are known anywhere, if we know the Law on Local Self-Government, which has appointed a Roma councillor who has appointed municipalities, then many, as we see, also the decisions of the Constitutional Court that are going to determine the criteria, it would probably not be difficult to propose changes to the law in this direction. And today I did not see from your reply that the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development would feel this need to arrange this for all Slovenian municipalities equally. For I believe that the task of the National Assembly, the task of the one who prepares the law, is the Government and the Secretariat Ministry, but it is that the law is systematic, without the law being written for one congregation, not that the law will determine what one congregation must do, but that the law will set uniform criteria for all the congregations in this country. And since there is absolutely no such hearing, and since I have not observed this from these answers myself today, I propose that we hold a debate on this answer in the National Assembly and that the National Assembly does this task and tries to set criteria for all municipalities in Slovenia, so that even Roma in Ljubljana, if declared, will have the right to Roma, to their saint who does not have it now. And that is this task, and therefore, as the Rules of Procedure allows me to do, I propose that we hold a debate on this in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Verlic's proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development to his question of the Parliament will be decided tomorrow, Tuesday, 2 March 2010, in the framework of the votes. Miro Friday will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u227	Thank you so much for saying that. For a while I did not see the Minister for Foreign Affairs in the National Assembly, but I was quite pleased, I was sure that he went to Montenegro in Koroška, where he had just received a reception for Tina Maze and perhaps awarded her some award for her promotion of Slovenia in the world. The athletes are also great ambassadors and they are not only part of the Ministry of Education's domain, but also governments as such, perhaps even the foreign ministry. But now from the ambassadors to the embassies. Mr Minister, we have been very busy in Slovenia recently with the issue of renting premises for state institutions, government services, bodies in the structure and so on. For the year Slovenia is committed to renting these premises more than 24 million euros, and on the other hand, there are many vacant spaces. However, this sum of EUR 24 million has not yet been allocated an annual rent of EUR 1.6 million for the national investigation office or rent for Kosovo to an anti-corruption commission of EUR 444 000 per year. In our country, however, we need to add the Ministry of Foreign Affairs rents to these rents for the needs of diplomatic and consular representations. For 45 business premises of embassies and consulates, for 39 residences and 210 residences of public servants working in the DKPs around the world, Slovenia counted more than €10.6 million in 2008. We paid €3.7 million for the lease of embassies and consulates in 2008, we paid €2.4 million for DKP residents worldwide, we paid €4.5 million for the housing of the 210 employees in 2008, a total of €10.6 million. I would like to know, Mr. Secretary-General: How much did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs deduct for this purpose last year? And what are you planning, what kind of funds are you planning this year? I also wonder: How many properties do you intend to buy or buy in this year for the purposes of Slovenian diplomacy? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Samuel Žbogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u229	Thank you very much. I'll do the numbers first. In 2009, I have to say first that we've lowered all the numbers. In 2009, we used 10.5 million for rentals of business premises, residences and apartments; of which 2.2 for rentals of residences and 4.6 for rentals of public servants. So 10 million and a half we spent in 2009, in 2010, we have 9.1 for these purposes, which is one million less. Now, of course, at each budget we want or anticipate, we also plan to buy some embassy or residence to save ourselves in this way in the long term, but our budgets will not allow us, at least at this moment and also in the future, for probably a few years, because there will be no money and we need to reduce the budget and usually this is the first thing to be deleted at the time of the rebalancing. [[...]] Even so far, the foreign ministry has not been able to rent loans for the purchase of properties abroad, as such is the law on public finances and leasing has been permitted in the last five years and we have also sent embassies to look for opportunities to rent or buy through leasing. We're also planning to acquire real estate with an inheritance. So far we've only received one such property from the former Yugoslavia, it's the embassy and residence in Washington. In the framework of the OECD countries or the OECD, several other properties have been distributed among the successors, including the promise of an embassy or residence in Rome, Milan, Budapest and several other such premises. Talks aren't closed yet. This year or last year, they intensified among successor countries to complete this division of property of the former Yugoslavia as soon as possible. We expect that this year, however, there will be a movement and that some of these embassies can also be owned and managed by them. So much, I think you've been asking about the costs for the time being.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you for your answer. I'm glad you've reduced this cost from 2008 to 2009. I think we're united, it's better for Slovenia to buy property abroad than to interfere with rent. During the 10 years, it is 100 million euros that Slovenia gives to rent these premises, and at that time it could acquire quite a lot of its own premises. You were an ambassador to America, and you also know that a permanent mission in New York has a residence on 1 st Avenue. The country, I think, bought this residence somewhere in 1994, 1995 and for these spaces, that's 320 square meters, we counted down a little over a million euros. If I do this on my thumb, this is less than €3,500 per square metre, which is very cheap, given that these are the spaces in the center of the world. The same is true of Paris. In 2000, we bought 411 square metres of space for less than two million euros, which is once again a very good purchase for Paris, which is about 5,000 euros per square meter, not to mention Trieste. In Trieste, Slovenia bought 243 square metres before the time of the consulate and we paid 400 000 euros, which is less than the cost of the annual rent for Kosovo to the anti-corruption commission. And that's less than 2,000 euros per square meter. Dear Minister, the purchases so far have been considered. I wonder: What are the limits, or what sums, that an embassy may rent? Where do we pay the most for the square meter of these areas? If you have this information, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Samuel Zbogar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u233	I agree that the most rational purchases would be, unfortunately at this time in which we live, there is simply no money in the budget for such purchases. In the past, unfortunately, we also bought very few of these properties. You've already mentioned almost all the properties we own. But that's our plan. We have purchased permanent representation and residence in Brussels. That's the plan. It's a long-term orientation of representation. How are rentals to be determined? Every diplomat who goes abroad gets a so-called housing limit. The limit shall be assigned to an individual embassy based on the UN scale. Thus, in accordance with the Wages Regulation, we take indicators, indices prepared by the UN for our officials and take these indices. On this index we determine the value of such an index, so that in some countries they can rent up to 50% of their salary, in some to 75%, depending on the condition of real estate. We are now in the ministry right now in a process of rationalisation, and we are likely to also reduce the levels of the limits in the embassy to save this million that we need to reduce to the rent line this year. The most expensive embassies, or most expensive rents, are in London, Rome, Berlin, Vienna, The Hague, Copenhagen, Moscow, Tokyo, and Warsaw. So I've been written here that according to these indices these are the most expensive places and somehow we adapt our indices to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u235	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, the well-respected remain present. My question concerns low-frequency noise. Low frequency noise is generally unheard of or poorly heard for humans, but it has negative effects on human health even at low strengths. The most common health disorders are pressure and pain in the ears, dizziness, discomfort and depression, which can lead to irreparable damage to the nervous or cardiovascular system. A sufficiently strong low-frequency noise also causes hearing resonant vibrations of building furniture, which further disturbs and disturbs the inhabitants in exposed buildings. The governments of most EU countries have therefore implemented various measures to reduce low-frequency noise. The most advanced countries in this area are Britain, Sweden, Denmark, Germany, the Netherlands and Poland. Slovenia is not supposed to be among these countries. We do not seem to have any problems with low-frequency noise. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u236	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u237	According to known data, there are no labour protection rules in Slovenia for this area, although employees are often exposed to this waning during their work. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: Is the Ministry of the Environment and Space planned to regulate legislation in the field of protection against low-frequency noise? And: When should this area be settled in Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u238	Thank you very much. One moment, Minister. Please, peace in the hall! Colleagues, please listen. Dr Roko Žarnic, Minister of Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u239	Dear Mr President, honourable Member! Thank you for the question I understand as an initiative. I myself have faced these problems in my practice 20 years ago and the essential problems have been the criteria for how much of this is too much. I am pleased that European countries are going this way. I was also in Canada, for example, in Alberta, where they have regulations since 2007. I think the area there is relatively young in law. I am pleased with this question, and in 2009 we also received a similar question from the Kamnik Congregation. I think it's one of the tasks that awaits me in the near future to do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mrs. Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! I am also from the Kamnik Congregation, and perhaps this is the reason that perhaps even the same gentleman has come to my attention, because there is also a lack of order in this area. I certainly thank you for your answer. At the same time, I find that this area, as you have found, is relatively young and also quite unknown among people. For this reason, I would ask if we could perhaps add to the answer by what knowledge is actually in the ministry on this issue. Indeed, I am surprised at why nothing has been done in this area so far - in the field of legislation, of course. In fact, around the world many scientists are dealing with the problem of environmental burdens with low-frequency noise and the harmful effects of this wave on human health. I also received a wealth of literature on low-frequency noise. This year, the 14th international conference will be on this subject, this time in Denmark. There is no information on Slovenia's participation in this conference or on Slovenia's activities in this area. I therefore hope that the health of the population will be protected as soon as possible and compensated in recent years in the area of prevention of low-frequency noise. Thank you for further clarification.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Please, Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u243	As we say, I don't think it's a measurement problem, it's a measure that can be performed, it can be processed, but the problem is criteria. As far as I know, there is still some consensus on these criteria, generally accepted, as far as it is too much and for how much too much, why too much. Scientific conferences are, knowledge-building, knowledge-sharing; some criteria must be provided for in legislation. I am counting on the possibility that some criteria will be adopted in Europe as a remote area, for Europe together. I will tell my colleagues who are dealing with this to follow up more closely, and I hope that the next time the question will be answered better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u244	Thank you very much. The island of Podkrižnik will ask the question of the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u245	President, thank you so much for your word. Your Honor, the Secretary-General. Mr. Minister, regulated transport infrastructure also represents a greater development potential, so I ask you: Why do we not yet have cycling routes in areas where tourism can develop and thus connect the regions with this transport infrastructure and infrastructure in individual municipalities? I have a feeling that we only have a tourism development strategy on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u246	Please, Minister of Transport, Dr. Patrick Vlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u247	Thank you, President. Thank you for asking. First of all, I would like to point out that in the strategic development documents of the Republic of Slovenia, we have in relation to the ecologically oriented tourism offer a planned development of a network of cycling links, which would also allow for a healthy movement of the population. In doing so, it is worth mentioning the fact that bicycles as a means of transport are mainly used in local communities at local level within cities and settlements, but in particular in recent times for longer recreational and tourist trips. For this reason, the establishment of cycling networks in areas that go beyond the boundaries of the municipality, as well as the establishment of a network of cycling links at the country level, is essential for the promotion of cycling because it is a healthy, ecological, cost-effective and, of course, tourist attractive engagement. At the Ministry of Transport, we are aware that the proper establishment of a network of cycling links is necessary to ensure better cycling conditions, especially the tourist development opportunity. However, in establishing a network of cycling links, the key interest of interested local communities and the tourism economy is to participate in such projects, as we in particular establish remote and regional cycling links most often through infrastructure and land, which are managed by local communities and other owners or operators. I must point out that in areas where the interest of local communities and the tourism economy is adequately present, several projects are under way in the development of state cycling links. Let me mention them, one is the Path of health and friendship along the route of the repertoire from Škofij via Kopra, Piran to the border with Croatia, then the cycling link Kranjska Gora - Jesenice, cycling link Rogaška - Podčetrtek - Bistrica ob Sotli. Then the link between Brezovica - Vrhnika - Logatec and Jesenice - Lesce - Bled and all the projects mentioned above are also envisaged for co-financing from the European Structural Fund for Development. With regard to the further development of cycling networks, I will strive for such development projects in areas where the relevant interest of local communities, the tourism economy and the means to do so are also present. If I understand correctly, it is the area of the Logar Valley, it is the area of the Municipality of Luče and other municipalities from that area, and we are happy to try to make one such connection there, because I think the Logar Valley has become an extremely attractive cycling destination, so that we will gladly try to find some solutions there to speed it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u249	Thank you very much. I thank the Minister for his partial response. I come from the Upper Savinja Valley myself, and I must say that in the Upper Savinja Valley is really the tradition of tourism. For 50 years, people have been actively engaged in the economic sector of tourism and in 1990 there was a severe flood in the Upper Savina Valley. In fact, then a plan was made for this road Ljubno - Luče - Logar Valley to be repaired, renovated, and also partially remade, and some of it was indeed made, so that it is not finished today, and we know how long it has been since. However, this development component was not taken into account and these cycling paths were not designed. In fact, I think that we have missed it here and I do not want such problems to occur in other parts of Slovenia. I still think that Slovenia has a great opportunity for tourism itself and that we can also create some great added value from this title in Slovenia. I'm glad the minister supports this thing. It seems to me that it would be good to carry out a thorough analysis across the entire Slovenian area and to set some priorities - as far as the state level is concerned. As far as municipal levels are concerned, I also agree that the municipalities are also responsible for this part, so that the task should also be given to the municipalities here, so that all these components should also be taken into account in these OPNs. And even if they make some sort of spatial plan, it's said, even in the base, the foundation should already be written by this biker or footpath. It's also about communication from schoolchildren, because today we drive schoolchildren from 500 meters to 3 kilometers with vans to school. We know that this is not rational and also a lack of movement of children themselves. And if we had a much better solution to this infrastructure, we would, too. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] something helped and the image in Slovenia would be significantly better. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u250	Thank you very much. I don't think that's necessary. That was an initiative. No response is expected. I think it was an initiative. Guido Kres will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u251	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Minister, Roko Žarnic, hello! In December 2009, the Government adopted a new environmental tax regulation for the removal and cleaning of waste water, on the basis of which the possibility of a 50% reduction in the environmental duty was eliminated for those households which are not in the public sewage system or where no water meters are installed to measure and determine the quantities of water used in households. On this basis, all households in the Republic of Slovenia are affected, where up to now 50% of flats have been accounted for, which determines the consumption of 50 cubic metres per month per household, regardless of whether the consumption could actually be lower. In doing so, it should be noted that all households outside the public water supply network, for the most part, through their own work and investment, provided uninterrupted water supply, are mainly households in remote areas and have not been used even a cent of the taxpayer's money to do so. These households are, so to speak, in this way, when they have already abolished their 50% reduction, penalties for their efforts. It's unacceptable for this to be overturned. In addition, I believe that this is an additional pressure on household budgets. I also ask: why was the regulation not previously definitively aligned with the representative associations of the municipalities? We are currently in a phase where municipalities or businesses have to do this, which is unacceptable in our view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u252	Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roko Žarnic, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u253	Dear Mr. President. Mr Member, thank you for this question. I found out what was going on. There has been a change in the regulatory regime due to the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Community Financing. The environmental duty is an environmental pollution duty due to the decommissioning of waste water from 1. 1. 2009 And since then, this has been the income of the congregations. This revenue is then used to build infrastructure, manage municipal waste and so on. This is an environmental protection measure, which means that the environmental duty is intended to promote less pollution. The duty to pay an environmental duty is not linked to the public supply infrastructure of drinking water, not to the waste water disposal and treatment infrastructure, but to the pollution of the water generated by the discharge of the waste water. The environmental pollution tax for the discharge of waste water has no connection with investing in the construction of drinking water infrastructure or has been public or private. As regards coordination, coordination with the Slovenian Association of Municipalities, the Government Service for Local Self-Government and the Economic Chamber. These regulations have been harmonised according to the information I have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u255	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, I'm happy with your answer. It's very good. However, I would like to draw attention to certain matters, or to ask further questions. I have information, it is true that the fee is the original revenue of the municipality, but it is not clear to us why this fee is still charged with VAT and in this way the state will cut off its share of this tax. We think this is unjustifiable because the tax is not a service. I'd like to ask you the following questions. It is not specified what is provided for in the case of non-payers or is specified that the Regulation does not provide for non-payers, since the operator has to pay the charged environmental duty without actually being collected, which is another additional problem. And I'd like to ask for that answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u257	Thank you. You know better than anyone that I'm not competent for VAT, that's what another minister is responsible for. It's interesting that we have this question. Yeah, the underpaids, that's the problem. I can't answer that. Some control mechanisms may have fallen out, the regulation may have to be supplemented, but the problem of collection and punishment may arise again. That goes beyond what I can answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u258	Please, a procedural proposal. The debtor is a company that works for waste water treatment, which is the responsibility of the company, so there are no problems. Please, if there's anything you'd like to ask about.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u259	Thank you. I understand, Minister, that's what it is. However, I see that this could be discussed in accordance with paragraph 246 of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u260	So you suggest, I'm sure it will work, but if you suggest [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u261	I suggest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u262	On the proposal by Mr Guid Kres to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Mr Rok Žarnic to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, Tuesday, 2 March 2010, in the framework of the vote. Franco Juri will ask the Minister of the Interior a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u263	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister. The exercise of the constitutional right to peaceful assembly and assembly at public meetings and public events is governed by the Law on Public Assembly. That is why I would like to draw your attention to an event that has recently taken place in Cyprus, where, at least in my opinion, there has been a poor interpretation of the law. And if not, I ask: How would such events be avoided in the future? It's a quiet meeting of some locals who reported just gathering the police or the administrative unit. However, the municipality, the local community did not consent to the use of the public surface. She took advantage of the opportunity under the Administrative Procedure Act and took 30 days to answer. This led to an unresolved situation where there was no agreement of the owner of the surface, and on the basis of this disagreement came the police, legitimized the alleged organisers and also heard what sounded and looked like pressure or intimidation. The event has raised a lot of attention and also a debate on whether our legislation is lacking in Article 14, which stipulates that the consent of the owner is needed for all the gatherings of landscapers on public surfaces. Given that the Constitution is very clear and establishes the right to freedom of assembly if there are no specific threats to the security of the State, I ask: How can you prevent such police conduct or the conduct of local communities when it comes to similar meetings? If the law is flawed, I ask: Does the law need to be supplemented? If the law is right, I ask: How can people be able to gather freely on public surfaces, including through the upcoming local elections, where we can experience predictions and limitations on freedom of expression? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u264	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister of the Interior, Mrs. Katarina Kresal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u265	Thank you, President for your word. Dear Member. As Minister, I am still aware of the importance of the Constitution of the guaranteed right to peaceful assembly and to public assemblies. That is why I have requested a report from the police on a specific event and an appropriate expert opinion from the Directorate for Administrative and Home Affairs. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia guarantees the right to peaceful assembly and to public assemblies. However, restrictions on this right shall be permissible if this requires the security of the State, public safety or protection against the spread of communicable diseases. The way this right is exercised is governed by the Public Assembly Act, which provides, inter alia, that everyone has the right to organise and participate in public meetings and public events. Among the conditions laid down by law are the fact that the organiser must, at the time of the notification of the public meeting, attach the consent of the owner of the land or the place where the meeting is organised and the proof that he has informed the local community of the meeting or of the event. At the Ministry, we believe that the consent of the municipality in cases where a meeting is organised and takes place in public areas intended for the free use of citizens for such use as the gathering of people cannot be denied. The meeting shall not be permissible only if it is prohibited by a decision of the administrative unit, which it was not prohibited to do in the case in question. This applies in particular to those public areas which have the status of built public goods. This is a property that is intended for the general and equal use of citizens and no one has absolute ownership over the public good. The laws and decrees of the individual congregation determine which properties represent a public good in a particular congregation. Taking into account the fact that the meeting was organised on a public surface which has the character of a built public good, especially since the meeting was organised on the market, the right to public assembly weighed on the property rights of the municipality. In fact, the municipality would propose a second location in the municipality if it considered that there were reasonable reasons why the meeting could not be organised at the intended location. In the future, it will be necessary to prevent overly restrictive or improper implementation of the Law on Public Collections, which does not comply with the constitutional right to public assembly. The owner’s consent is not disputed when it comes to land or private property. However, in the case of owners who are entities of public law, such as the State and the municipality, it is necessary to ensure the exercise of the constitutional right to public collection and to take into account only constitutional exceptions such as State security, public security and protection against the spread of communicable diseases, as provided for in Article 42(3) of the Constitution. This is particularly true in cases where a public meeting is to take place on land or a public good area. In particular, it will be necessary to examine the consistency of the deadlines laid down in such cases by the General Administrative Procedure Act, which are used for the issue of consent where it is decided by a public law body by the nature of the constitutional right to public assembly. Implementation in practice requires swift decision-making in the administrative procedures necessary for the meeting. In many cases public meetings are organized ad hoc, that is, at a time when the public is aware of an upcoming event. In accordance with the above, we are already preparing professional bases to supplement the law on public gatherings, which will prevent the abuse of the constitutional right to public assembly. In the meantime, the police will provide mandatory guidance and guidance on the implementation of the relevant provisions of the law. In the same spirit of respect for constitutional rights, the Directorate for Administrative Home Affairs will inform all administrative units and local communities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u267	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I think we got along, and I actually expected that kind of response from you. I expect this mandatory interpretation of the law to be transmitted as soon as possible to both the police and the local communities. The fact is, in that particular event, there has been a poor interpretation of the law and an abuse of the alleged possibilities offered by this law. He hopes and asks you to inform the police by this interpretation, for a fine or punishment of an alleged organizer has also been announced on the scene. There has been no such punishment so far. I expect that this obviously correct interpretation of yours, which must be written down and sent earlier to those who also exercise the law or guarantee or can impede the exercise of this constitutional right, will also be made known in a timely manner. I repeat that before the time of the local elections, and several times it has happened in the municipal municipality that local authorities have intervened and also prevented meetings or the gathering of political opposition. This time it was civil society gathering and, unfortunately, the law was misinterpreted. I'm counting on this answer to make things right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u268	I don't think there's any need for an answer. Milan Čadež will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u269	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings from my colleague and colleagues. Dear Minister, Madam Secretary. In the country, we know quite a few of the mines that close or are already closed. These are Kanjiarica, Senovo, Idria, Žirovski vrh mine. That is exactly what I would like to ask you about your opinion on this ten-year project of the State of Slovenia. After the planned rehabilitation this year, two facilities remain in this local environment, namely the Jazbec facility, where less quality ore is placed, and the Boršt facility, where the processed ore has been deposited, has gone through the technological process. Maybe I'll remind you that this is the dump site where there's more movement than they've been allowed in the last year. As a result of these areas, the municipality also obtained compensation for limited use of space in 2008. However, the current government has cut it by half. There were also several communications and also answers from your ministry and also from the Ministry of Finance. However, they had a common denominator that the effects on the environment are no longer so high with rehabilitation or completion on both sites. However, from the Ministry of Finance, we have received an answer that there is a shortage of funding and public enterprise assets. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the Ministry has called for a natural background of 5.5 millisieverts to be the one that has been assessed. However, I would like to point out that in this local environment, it has never been measured from a zero state from which this data could be accurately provided.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Please Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for an interesting question. You've already answered part of the first part in the question. Our ministry is not responsible for closing mines, but in general it is responsible for the Žirovski Summit and your question has a major issue in this area. As you yourself have mentioned, the remedial final work is still under way. In 2003, the rehabilitation plant, 2006 cave, 2009 Jazbec landfill, is completed at Boršt landfill in 2010. The problem is crawling, as you yourself said, and the beach in Borste is not at rest. Following recent measurements in April 2009, movements in 2008 and 2009 were higher than before, the rate of movement increased from six to seven times. It is not clear whether these movements are due to the activity of the remedial works, the machines that worked there, or whether this matter will settle. That is why the project council was activated in 2009, the measurements are continuing and we will be able to give a clearer response in time. About the radiation. As an expert, who I've also been involved with, and I'm still doing 20% of the metrics, I know that experiments are the biggest problem if you don't have a rapper reading, you don't really have an initial value. If it wasn't, it was gone, and we can only regret it because there's nothing we can do about it. Here I have some indications that you are probably also familiar with from the annual report on the implementation of protection against ionising radiation and environmental impacts in 2008. This information, as you said, was taken from somewhere as one rapper value of 5.5 millisieverts, including in this report. It also says that the measured radiation is estimated at 0,107, which is approximately 2% of the value of 5.5. In fact, these numbers tell us little about the change if we don't know how many radiations there were at the beginning. I can only agree with you here. What much more can I say about this, I can say that the works will continue, they will be completed, this facility will be monitored, the measurements will be made and we hope that they will calm down. On compensation financing, however, there is something that probably belongs to another ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Chad.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u273	I'm not happy with your answer. I want a concrete answer: Why was the refund halved? Given that it was clear that no zero condition had been measured. And also given that other local environments such as Brinja where activity in teravicquereli is very low and receive a profit of 0.2 million. We know that the temporary landfill in Krk with the local environment receives 4.2 million. The local environment, where two buildings remain, Jazbec and Boršt, forever and where you deceive that the average is 5.5 millisieverts, where the initial situation has never been measured, and this has not decreased. This local environment received one million a year, and this year only half a million because it halved. I would like to point out that the impact of the mine on the environment with the amount of the mine's assets does not change. The right to compensation is not dependent on the real and financial assets of the public undertaking due to the limited use of space in the region of Ruzevej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u275	I understand you're not happy with my answer. But I must disappoint you, in the materials I have, I have no answer why the sum is halved. But I will be able to try to find such an answer at your request, clearly expressed here.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u276	Thank you very much. Mr Lah will ask a question from the Parliamentary Minister responsible for local self-government and regional development. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Mr. President! With regard to the fifth invitation to tender, I would like to ask a question. In the Official Journal of 29 January this year, the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Development issued a public invitation to submit applications for co-financing of operations under the priority guidance of the Regional Development Programmes, the development priorities of the Development of the Regions, under the Operational Programme for the Strengthening of Regional Development Potentials for the period 2007 to 2013, for the period 2010 to 2012. The call shall also publish the deadlines for submission of applications. Seven deadlines are in 2010. The first deadline for submission of applications was already 26.2. but from the Government service we received 25.2. clarifications on the fulfilment of the conditions regarding classification in the implementation plan. Finally, it reads: "As the procedures for the preparation and validation of the implementation plans as provided for in the Regulation will not be completed in any of the development regions until 26.2.2010, applications for submission of applications cannot be submitted by the first deadline." Under this is the undersigned minister. In the congregations, we do not understand why this occurred. We know that there was no invitation to tender in 2009, that this invitation to tender was made on your behalf in January 2010 and then also carried out. Thanks to you, he probably wouldn't be here by now. However, since the municipalities or regional development agencies forwarded the implementation plans of the 2010-2012 regional development programmes to your service in November last year, they would also be expected to be properly reviewed and validated by the Government Service. But that obviously didn't happen. Therefore, we wonder: Why is it not possible to apply for this first period because we feel that it is possible to review and issue these conclusions? We know that by 30.9 we must also submit a report on the implementation of these projects. If things slow down, the question is, are we even going to be able to do these projects?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Henry Gjerkesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u279	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! We all know how the short deadlines were in December, January, when we talked to the RRAs, with the saints of the regions, how to speed up these procedures so that the 5th public call could be issued in January. The implementation plans submitted to the SVR did not comply with the new Regulation on regional incentives. And that's what we knew back then. They were indicative implementation plans that were known to be complemented. And in accordance with the tendering conditions and the criteria published in the 5th public call, these regions, or the RRAs, or the holy ones, have confirmed and ultimately implemented this. However, due to short deadlines, at least in most regions they have requested an extension of the implementation plan. Since the implementation plan in the new Regional Incentives Regulation must be reviewed by the SVRL, the SVRL shall then deliver an opinion and forward this opinion back to the region; this is a new two-stage way, a minor change from the first four public tenders. Due to the late arrival of the implementation plans, the external contractor we hired to assess the implementation plans or the appropriateness of meeting the criteria for implementing projects could not complete its work. Some implementation plans have come after the deadline for sending projects. Most of the implementation plans have been reviewed by the external contractor and the SVR will draw up an opinion for each region. This opinion is then taken into account by the region or by the world of the region or not, according to its opinion. In view of the hands that are now through the first application, it will be possible to apply on the second deadline or to the other hands of the year, which are still in March, April and May. I don't think there's anything missing. We've actually squeezed it all down to a minimum timescale, but the thing has moved and I think it's going to be done right to the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u280	Thank you very much. He wants the minister to complete his answer? Please, Mr. Lah.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u281	The public call was 29. 1. If there has been so much news with the public call that the implementation plans of the regional development programmes have to be supplemented - we know what the procedure is, that the Council of the Region has to confirm that the municipalities have to complete and so on, that this is not possible. Then why did you give 26. The 2nd year? From 29. 1. to 26. 2. is less than a month! Since we already knew about these changes last year that there is no transport infrastructure, you yourself said that they will not in fact change the conditions, at the Regional Development Agency we are told that they have nevertheless been prepared to meet these conditions. Still, they were all rejected. If several implementation plans are reviewed within a few weeks or this week, why not review - probably not yet from all agencies have come up with implementation plans or projects - only from the agencies where the projects came to you to make it faster. Otherwise, you have 60 days to issue the decision. In those 60 days, the implementation plans may be reviewed and decisions issued. If applications are to be submitted in May and then 60 days from then - when will the projects be implemented if we have to issue a report or proof of payment at the end of the ninth month [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Together? [[...]] That's why I suggest, Minister, that you take these projects anyway, but it's strange how we've been informed, if you raise your stakes, otherwise we'll reject everything because we're not yet implementing plans. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Gjerkesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u283	Thank you. The message certainly was not like that, it was just advice. We can't stop them from sending projects to the SVRL. We have only advised them to wait in the regions for a few days, because the external evaluator is still unable to review these implementation plans due to the short period that it had at the time of obtaining the implementation plans. We certainly didn't suggest that all the projects would fall now. No one was rejected, no one was rejected. Only the procedure laid down in the Regional Incentives Regulation has not been properly implemented. But you know that we need to take strict care of these procedures because of the little things we've had because not all procedures have been strictly followed in the first four. If the implementation plans were to be such that they could be transmitted by the RRAs on an unaltered basis, October. But in those parts where the changes, where we have highlighted certain criteria, have detected that implementation plans need to be adjusted and adapted in some part. Of course, as you yourself have said, it is behind you that regional development councils, the world of the region and so on must confirm them. Everything requires some procedure and this procedure was real, of course, in ideal circumstances. Unfortunately, it turned out that we actually set too short deadlines and that is why the first projects were not reported in February. But this is not exclusively SVRL, but it is also because we approved the regions that they could send plans later after the deadline, because, as you yourself have found, the hands were short and they had to meet and confirm, I think even twice, these implementation plans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Would you like to make a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u285	Mr. Secretary, I'm not satisfied with the answer. I come from a region where we have not corrected anything because they claim that the implementation plans are prepared as they were in the public call. However, this letter also makes it impossible for four projects from our implementation programmes to apply for this first deadline in order to be able to tender in time for projects to be implemented this year. We didn't fix anything, and you throw everything in the same basket. Simply because the implementation plans have not been reviewed, your service has not been able to review this since the autumn of last year. So just put off for at least one month, and then there will be a 60-day conclusion, because you have 60-day deadline, and we are afraid that the congregations are pressing because you want to do these projects physically this year, too, and give proof up to the deadline that you set. I would ask, on a procedural basis, if a discussion is held under the Rules of Procedure at a meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u286	Thank you very much. The proposal by Mr Zvonk Lah to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, Tuesday, 2 March 2010, in the framework of the votes. Silven Majhenič will ask the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u287	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers! In November 2007, a specialized department was established at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, which includes police officers and military officers. The purpose of the establishment of a specialised department is to investigate persons with police powers in the field of internal affairs and defence. The importance of this specialized department is certainly convinced by the numbers that speak of the handling and prosecution of police officers who have exceeded their powers or have been dealt with because of the suspicion of criminal service. The abuse of powers and crimes committed in the types of persons with powers cannot be independently investigated by the police, because in this case they are investigating themselves, which is contrary to the decision of the European Court of Human Rights. However, matters do not run as they were set up, as the ban on viewing the internal administrative records maintained by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Slovenia makes the work of the specialised department more difficult, especially when it comes to the investigation and detection phase. The disagreement between the police and the prosecution should not be crucial to the failure of the specialised department, which does its work professionally and legally. The interest that follows the objective should prevail, and this must be ensured by the ministries. It is certainly the responsibility of the Ministers and the President of the Government, who is responsible for ministries working in the interests of the rule of law. So I ask: Is it true that you intend to end this specialised department, which has been confirmed by the results that confirm the purpose and the justification of the department, only because of the disagreement between the police and the prosecution, which, by all logic, should still be working together? What are you going to do to make cooperation on a level that is appropriate for these institutions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u288	Who will be the first to answer? Minister, Mr. Zalar. Both have five minutes with the Minister of the Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u289	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor. This specialized department you are talking about is an organisational component of the state prosecutors' group for the prosecution of organised crime. The powers of these state prosecutors and police officers in this area are regulated by the Criminal Procedure Act. The Ministry of Justice intends to visit the State Prosecutor's Office Act and in particular to renovate certain institutes relating to the organisation and manner of work of a group of state prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime, in a way that ensures organisational, procedural, material and human resources conditions for optimal work. This is mainly due to the fact that we have recently received the National Investigation Office in Slovenia and then the specialised section at the District Court in Ljubljana for prosecution and trial in some cases of economic and organised crime. This adjustment in terms of competence, as well as the technical basis for operation, the normative basis for action and the like, is the reason why we are preparing a certain overhaul in this area. It is clear, however, that the judgment referred to in the case of the Mother, which established the standards, will have to be taken into account. It is the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights and we will by no means ignore this judgment. This group or this department will thus be provided with an appropriate organisational placement and way of assigning cases, an appropriate number of prosecutors and an appropriate number of police officers within this specialised department. Otherwise, I would like to draw attention only to the fact that the Ministry of Justice has been alerted to the problem of the organisational involvement of this department in a group of state prosecutors on 22 December 2008 at the first working meeting we had with the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office. And the U.S. Attorney's Office was the one that proposed a certain change in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u290	Thank you very much. Minister, Mrs. Katarina Kresal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Dear Member! The organisation and powers of the State Prosecutor's Office do not fall within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior, and the former was the responsibility of a colleague, Minister of Justice. However, I will give my opinion on this section. I am aware of the importance of independent external control over the work of the police, carried out by a specialised section of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office. We respect that such an organisation is a result of the judgment of the European Court of Justice, because it requires independent monitoring and investigation in the event of a violation of human rights by repressive authorities. However, I cannot go beyond what has already been identified by the various legal experts at the time of the introduction of such a system as we have, so that instead of having a coherent system of effective and independent investigation of illegal interference with human rights, we have obtained a non-systematic, non-transparent and unconceived Super Supervisory Authority in the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, with extensive police powers. And, as I have pointed out on my own many occasions, I advocate a comprehensive regime of systematic, effective and independent police control. Today's system of intertwining powers and thus transposing responsibility is financially and organisationally inoptimal, non-systemic and, in the opinion of many experts, has reduced the legal security of individuals against individual illegal police intervention and also reduced the legal security of police officers themselves against unfounded charges and bullying. From our point of view, therefore, changes are necessary. In any way, it is under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. Of course, there is no way to talk about the abolition of such an arrangement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Only Bevk will ask the Minister of Finance a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u293	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. I ask Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance, about simplifying the rate of income from interest on cash deposits at banks and savings banks in Slovenia, so that monetary institutions directly inform the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia with pre-prepared tax returns. On the basis of the Income Act, taxable persons are required to make a tax return on interest on cash deposits at banks and savings banks established in Slovenia and in other Member States of the European Union in the event that the total amount of interest achieved in the tax year exceeds EUR 1,000. On the basis of the current regime, the taxable person must lodge a tax return with the tax office. It may also submit an electronic forecast through the E-tax system. There are problems in this regime, as many people have to come from faraway places to tax offices. Many of the elderly and the sick simply forget this and cannot make an electronic announcement. For this reason, it would be better for banks and savings banks to keep tax offices informed annually of the amount of interest. In the event that these amounts exceed EUR 1,000, it would make sense for the Tax Administration, on the basis of the data transmitted by banks and savings banks, to prepare a pre-fulfilled forecast and to forward it to the taxpayers by mail. If the taxable person did not object, his tax liability would be terminated. On the basis of these changes, the simplification of the tax procedure I propose would relieve taxpayers of the deadline and the manner in which they invest. This would allow older persons and persons from remote locations not to have to go to these remote tax offices and should not be kept in mind the deadlines for submitting a forecast. I ask Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance: Are you preparing any tax simplifications for taxpayers in this area? I thank you very much for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Finance Dr. Franz the Crusader.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u295	Your Honor, thank you for asking. The answer is: a legislative amendment of the Tax Procedure Act is necessary to enforce the proposal for simplification. In addition, the working procedures of the Tax Administration need to be examined and adapted. A quick solution to this change, according to our ministry, would not be appropriate. Nevertheless, we assess that the proposal needs to be examined in more detail in the following aspects. Firstly, in view of the impact of the change in the tax collection system on the extent of the taxes collected, in particular in the absence of financial consolidation of public finances. Secondly, from the point of view of the technical capacity of the DURS information system, it is overloaded until the construction of the new tax information system that we are launching this year and does not allow new upgrades or applications. It still works in the DOS system. Thirdly, in view of the appropriateness of the change in the current system of tax forecasting on interest. Here it must be borne in mind that DURS cannot automatically obtain interest income data from foreign banks or other payment service providers, which is why the question is whether a pre-fulfilled forecast for a taxable person should object to because the revenues from this Title, obtained abroad, would not be included in the pre-fulfilled forecast, in fact constitutes a simplification or a complication and the possibility of certain conflicts. Fourthly, the proposal should also be examined from the point of view of the control and integrity of the data included in the pre-fulfilled forecast, which would ensure the correct assessment of the tax. Only on the basis of this overall assessment will it be possible to make a final decision, or at any time to change the tax collection system, as proposed by the Member in his question. However, this is undoubtedly one of the longer-term objectives, which requires significantly improved information technology in view of the current situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Renata Brunskole will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted. I'm asking you a question, Professor Roku Žarnic. The Ministry of the Environment and Space is responsible for the recovery of damage caused by protected species of wildlife in domestic animals - poultry and other animals. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Environment and Space has proved to be ineffective or under-effective - according to farmers - in the payment of compensation. Last week I was also a participant in the round table on the issue of protected species of wild animals organised by the Agricultural-land chamber of Slovenia. Representatives of regional units from all over Slovenia were present. There have been many criticisms and sharp words regarding the effectiveness of the operation of the competent services within the Ministry of Environment and Space, in which case the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Environment has been commended that this activity or this work has now been carried out more transparently and efficiently than was previously the case with the other service responsible, but still faces difficulties in paying compensation. It was pointed out that these issues should be tackled more effectively by means of a more qualitative change in legislation, so that farmers actually engaged in agricultural activities and living on them also have the feeling that we are protecting and supporting them and their operation, not just wild animals or wild animals. I wonder: How will the Ministry of Environment and Space approach this issue? Could there also be a short chance of a change in legislation in this area?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u298	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u299	Your Honor! Thank you so much for asking. This question, interestingly, came about by a time delay. Complaints of inefficiency have already been resolved in the meantime. And on 23.2.2010 there were still 20 outstanding claims from 911 in 2009, it is said, 2%. But let me get back to the beginning. We have this area regulated by two laws, the Law on Conservation of Nature and the Law on Wildlife and Hunting, and with instructions on how to deal with these matters and the Regulations on Suitable Ways of Protecting Property. ARSO, the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which you have praised, has taken matters quite seriously and seems to be no longer lagging behind. But perhaps I could read you some very interesting information to make it easier to understand. From 2005 to 2009, 5,518 requests were resolved, 20 remaining to be resolved, costing taxpayers about € 1 per capita in Slovenia or €973 000. And if we add another EUR 236 000 472 for 491 applications from 2005 to 2009 for protection measures, we have somehow this matter ahead of us. I don't think the criticism that the state's bad at covering these matters is exactly the right thing to do. Of course, people want more money from the state. Here comes €360, for example, with sheep or two well-paid. However, I do not wish to be misunderstood, but it must also be said that the invitation to tender issued on 5 February, where 100 000 Euros of grants for the purchase of electricity networks and grass-roots appliances is foreseen for this year, where the Ministry finances 60% of the recognised costs. These tenders are published on the Internet, and will be completed on 10 May. So it's prevention, we invest in it, we pay for the marriage obligation, and I don't think there's anything to comment on here. Every marriage can be changed, it can be supplemented, it can be improved, and only now is another story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u301	Thank you very much. I would like to thank you very much for the answer, but I would also like to make a few comments from this round-table discussion. Above all, there was a strong emphasis on the need for greater social coexistence, that is, people, beasts, even discussions were about the decision to be made in Slovenia. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u302	My colleague, you can't spread the subject. I'd like to ask you to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u303	All right, thanks, 'cause that's what this is about. Above all, we need to decide whether we want the inhabited country and the agricultural activity or whether we want to protect the wild animals. It's a problem of human and game coexistence. In this regard, I also propose, and I am sure that you will also wish to have a normal dialogue in this direction between the Ministry of the Environment and Space and also all those involved in agricultural activities, and that in the future also in respect of compensation payments, as well as in relation to co-existence, will take place as necessary. I suggest that you continue to take this matter as seriously as you did at the outset. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Silva Montenegro will ask the Minister for Environment and Space. Now we have an environmental program right now. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u305	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Secretary and President. Indeed, it seems that today we Members have somehow felt that we have a serious interlocutor with each other and because the environment is such a common popular theme of all Members, we probably wanted to, too, take advantage of your fresh impetus and enthusiasm in this area. Let me focus on the question. Slovenia is famous for its natural beauty. These natural beauties are immeasurable. Those who love nature can also enjoy it. The parallel underground world in Slovenia is immensely rich and meters and meters, kilometers, hundreds of meters of underground trenches, are some of the immense wealth that some people can see in publicly available terms, and some are just lovers and members of the Jamarska Association. If I just say that I've seen on the website of the Jamaican Union how and how, in fact, the Jamaican relationship deals with all of this parallel underground world and all of these beauties. In recent times there have been many speeches about some of the most famous caves, namely the Postojna Cave and the Škocjan Cave, due to already well-known problems in the media. But these problems are not only related to these most infamous and most famous caves, but also to other caves, because they are rich in all their beauty, if not even these riches and beauty are a little bit, one would say, more mystical, for some more interesting and so on. If we go only to the Mountain Cave, the Cross Cave, now Cross Cave 2 and the new trenches discovered by the good lobsters, we can find that there is one wealth here that seems not to have been explored enough. I want to know: What are you going to do about it? Legislation has been adopted in one period and evaluation and implementation of this legislation is necessary. How much do you think it will actually be necessary to do in this area, to grant concessions for other not so well-known caves, such as Taborska, Županov and so on? There are a lot of them in Slovenia. Not just because of the visit, but this would possibly be a very rich economic activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u307	Dear Mr President, honourable Member! Thank you very much for your very encouraging words first. In this answer, I'm going to try to say a few numbers just a little bit. We have the 2004 and 2006 Underground Cave Protection Act complemented by a comprehensive regulation governing the protection and nature of underground caves. Every marriage is a law as it is, and every marriage needs periodic renewal and verification. If four years have passed since the last version, it is likely that a little critical assessment will have to be undertaken on the basis of the experience we have with the implementation of this law. And here's the little problem. The operationalisation of the underground cave protection system is not taking place as quickly and as comprehensively as we would like, including an increase in the exercise of the necessary control. The laws that we have, without changing them, must first be well established and operationalised. Clearly, this surgery gives us information for improvements. Maybe a little stats. The 2004 and 2006 rules on the establishment and protection of underground caves include 8 000 382 underground caves in our country. They're not all of them. Of these, 6 caves are defined for closed pits which are so vulnerable that they may be threatened with any entry. So only six of them are locked up. 184 caves are defined as open caves with controlled entry. Here, of course, is the Postojna Cave. Sensitivity requires that entry be monitored. 8.192 caves are among the open pits. At present, it is physically with the doors closed by 79 cave entrances. Not all 384, so to speak. On the basis of the law, three other regulations are adopted under the law: the Regulations on the communication of data on underground caves, the Rules on the qualification for independent cave operation and the Regulations on the qualification for cave guides to be guided by open pits, which are regulated for tourist visits. As I said, this implementation of the law includes actively the most important NGOs dealing with caves, such as the Jamaican Union of Slovenia, the Jamarian Society, the Institute for Research of Crassus at the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art. Those beginnings, conditionally said, criticism is not so much about their activity, but it is related to the number of caves we have. We're also so rich here, it's hard to control everything well. However, due to the limitations of financial and human resources capabilities, there are still many things to be done here, and it is necessary to make every effort to do this work as best as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Please, Mrs. Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u309	Thank you so much for saying that. I am aware that due to the amount of this vast parallel world or wealth that we have, control, protection is much more difficult than in countries that do not have such caves and to such an extent, not in such meters as it is in Slovenia. However, this is one great fortune for all of Slovenia, and it is worth preserving, not least to show to the general public. I was in Cuba recently. They have a rich cave world, but since I'm a good mirror, I can't compare. But they have a way of exploiting and representing the public and tourists far more intensively than is here in our Slovenia. I'm asking you: Are you also planning any additional funds in some other financial perspectives, since certain financial resources are also needed for research, security and, last but not least, investment in infrastructure in this cave world? Some of them are likely to be acquired or prepared in the context of biodiversity and biodiversity years in the coming financial periods to draw up some new funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Minister, Dr. Jarnić.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u311	Thank you for asking. It's with the means. Some of these caves, not many, have concessionaries. We know that much of the concession comes back to the congregation. This is one of these resources that can also be invested in what you mentioned. The other is tourism. I'm sure it's something you need to take advantage of. These caves on such a large scale, if possible elsewhere, would be more commercially exploited. Is commercial exploitation always kind? There's a balance to be found here.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Dr. Luka Juri will ask the Minister of the Environment a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Minister, as was almost predicted, you see you're barely in the saddle, and you're already here in the middle of the night. Welcome. Although you have only been on the ministerial seat for a few weeks, I would like to draw your attention to a multi-year problem when we suffer from the people and residents of the Municipality of Koper, especially Dekanov and Bertokov. This is the Kemiplas chemical plant. Since 1949, this industry has lived under the name Iplas, and then it has changed and was named Kemplas at the time of privatisation. Unfortunately, it retained more or less the same technology that produced phthalic acid anhydride, maleic acid anhydride, dioctiftalate, PET preforms and so on. The initiative to move the factory is years old. There have been even formal negotiations, but everything has stopped at a dead point, so today the Municipality of Koper and a group of citizens and citizens are seeking their right in court, so far failing. The question of Kemiplas settled for some time in the past year after the administration decided to stop production due to the economic crisis, but now it is back in operation and releases dangerous substances into the atmosphere daily. It is true that measurements are carried out, but it orders you and pays the factory owner himself, who has an interest in showing that everything is fine. But the only independent measurement that your ministry carried out years ago showed excessive discharges. In addition, the situation, but not only the conditions, but also the alarming feeling that is present in the public, has worsened the incident that occurred last week, when fire broke out at night and only because of the rapid intervention of firefighters did not result in extremely harmful releases into the environment and to fatalities; you know yourself about this incident. At the same time, your ministry has been waiting for a long time for an application to approve the work of Kemplas, but since there is not yet an answer, the factory considers the organ's silence to be an approval and works freely. So I ask you: When can we expect your ministry to respond to the open role? And: What are the options for changing the current practice and for you to regulate and implement measurements, of course at the expense of Kemplas? Finally, I would like to ask: What are the possibilities for the Ministry, with the participation of the local community, to join the active search for a solution to close the Kemiplas factory? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u314	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Environment and Space Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u315	Mr. President! Dear Member, thank you very much for the hottest question at the end of the day, but I do not mind because I have been prepared for this issue since the accident. But even more so was the comment made by the Mayor of Cyprus, because I think he was very misinterpreting my message to the press - in the opposite direction. In fact, you need to know that in issuing permits there is great pressure, that some owners are extremely skilled in exercising their interests in courts with good lawyers and in such very delicate cases we are also particularly attentive. My statement has gone in this direction that it is precisely because of this event that we will try to make things more organised and more qualitatively prepared, in the event of permission to make decisions that are not exactly the wish of the owners to be so strong that they are defensive. That was my message that the mayor misunderstood. In any case, it is not that we want to hide that we want to serve capital as something has been heard, but we want fair and fair - in accordance with the legislation we have - to act and resolve this problem. You yourself said that the matter had been quiet for some time, so things haven't moved since 2007 because the plant hasn't operated. We have also conducted two procedures relating to the request of the debtor for waste recovery and the requirement to obtain the status of the waste collector. In both cases, we made a negative decision, but at the second stage, the defendant received part of the plea and went back to the first stage. So it's what we're doing intensively. This morning, I met with colleagues in charge of this, and what you said, independently of this, we have ourselves found that there is something more radical to be done about monitoring and we will propose a change to the Environmental Protection Act so that the choice of the authorising officer implementing the measurements is no longer left to the manager who pays it, but would be a directly independent expert, the Ministry Commissioner, by covering an account with a compulsory deposit. However, not directly to the operator, but in an integrated manner into the budget or in any way, and thus the Ombudsman would be completely independent. This would ensure a significantly higher quality of approach to problem solving and have unladen professional measurements, which would solve many of these problems. And to conclude - and that no one will misinterpret me. For our ministry, such events are some sort of special event that allows the break-in up. After the severe earthquakes that occur, despite the victims, after an earthquake remodeling some of the facilities, it goes to a higher level. I think that this example of Kemiplas may be negative, but it does a little bit of good - I will not say that it is positive - to move forward and I believe that we will all be more satisfied in a short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u316	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Did you want to complete the answer? I thought you were so pleased with the answer that you didn't want it, but good. Please, Dr. Yuri wants to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u317	In Italian, they say appetite comes while you eat. And since the answer was so good, of course, I can't ask for an additional answer. In view of the fact that you have made me very happy, I must say, by predicting that you are thinking about amending legislation that would allow only the Ministry to determine the operator of the measurements and, after all, determine its financial autonomy and actually put it in a position to carry out its work. Mr. Secretary, don't mind, but I'd like to know: When do you intend to submit this proposal? At the same time, you can count here on the full support of me and my colleagues that this change will go through as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Please. Does the minister want to answer? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u319	Thank you. We talked about this with Director ARSO this morning. So, the procedure has begun.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u320	Thank you very much. As I mentioned, we're going to round two. Dr Vinko Gorenak will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. We in the SDS Group have requested an urgent meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice on the subject of the awards to bankruptcy managers, and I did not intend to raise this issue at all today. But the reason I'm asking this question was actually in what the ministry is 25. 2. Communication to the public following our request for an extraordinary meeting of the Committee. In your press release, you actually agree with this initiative in some way and nicely all the things that are wrong in this area after your last year's amendment to Regulation 11. Seven. In 2009, somehow you're going to the Supreme Court or the courts. When we wrote this request, we had no intention of attacking the courts and their decisions, but we wanted to draw attention to a system that was not appropriate in this area. And that's why I'm gonna go back a little bit. 11 days after the adoption of your term of office, you probably changed the rules in this area as one of the first normative things, and you reached into paragraphs 3 and 5. I think it's already started there. In any case, they started there, so at least they show more and more detailed analyses. Later, 28. 2. Despite the deflation at the time of the law - because I cannot talk about the whole year 2008 but about the validity of the law, which was three months, it was deflation and you have not reduced anything. During the period from then until May, there was also Videm-Krško, there was no monitoring of the situation and what is still wrong, which I think has led to this problem that is now in court - I think the judges are quite confused, rightly confused, because if every few days they change the rules, then there may be a problem, even for the judges. And then that month of May last year and at the same time what happened in this Chamber and I warned myself at the time in the defense of that amendment - I am speaking, of course, of the third paragraph of Article 499, by which you made the acts of law that were then in force valid even before 1. Ten. - that this has caused the most confusion we have in this area today. But we have a perfect confusion, and this is what we have to do to complement the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Please, Justice Minister Aleš Zalar, then we'll see if there's a supplement. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u323	Well, I haven't even heard the questions now, but since it was foretold, I will answer what was foretold. This is that we are still monitoring the state of payments at the Ministry to bankruptcy managers and the answer is, "Absolutely yes." We follow it here and I can show you, say, a densely typed list on 30 pages for each case separately from October 2008 following bankruptcy procedures, payments and so on. We regularly monitor this at the Ministry and there are no changes here. While we are also monitoring the situation in the whole area with regard to the implementation of bankruptcy legislation, insolvency legislation and, therefore, we are preparing a single major amendment to this legislation. This is expected to be put into government procedure this month, and then, of course, the National Assembly will be able to discuss the solutions that we are preparing. All of this is due, of course, to monitoring the situation in this area, including issues relating to the work of bankruptcy managers and the payment of bankruptcy managers. In doing so, I would like to point out that the Ministry is monitoring the situation when it comes to payments, including in other ways. We have warned several times, as you have rightly already found, both the judiciary and not only the Supreme Court, which is responsible for the uniform case-law, but all the courts that handle the bankruptcy proceedings and the Anti-Corruption Commission, and the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office; in short, what the Minister can do within the limits of the powers and powers he has to regulate the situation in this area, we have done, and in particular we have limited the enormous amounts of rewards to the bankruptcy administrators. You know that these unlimited heights were the result of the regime implemented by the previous government. When the first payments took place, our ministry intervened immediately in these cases and on 11 July a new regulation entered into force which ensured these restrictions and which also established a different structure and method of payment, so that now the bankruptcy manager has been awarded mainly depending on how successful he was at liquidating the bankruptcy weight, but not as before, after the previous regulation, when the main part of the payment was tied to the early phase of the bankruptcy procedure, which has not yet healed in some very large part of the bankruptcy manager. Thus, we estimate that the practical effects of these restrictions, which the Ministry has implemented with this Regulation, have been achieved. However, if, of course, in individual cases, an individual court does not comply with these restrictions, we have, of course, an official of the State here. This is the State Attorney's Office, which then intervenes with complaints. More on this issue, as you have already announced, we will probably talk at a meeting of the Committee on Justice, and I agree with you here, I think it is right to hold this debate and pour some new clean wine on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u325	I mean, I don't know what to say. I really don't know what to say. I don't want you to lie to me. I don't want to say it! The fact that you're following the case is not true. April is this award awarded, and we know exactly how many, 400 thousand and so many Euros, Videm-Krško, and you have not responded at all. If we were to follow things forward, we could have reacted sooner. And I hear a hundred times the repeated thing on your part: Storm's legislation is to blame. It's not Storm's legislation! I'm telling the camera again because you don't have the sense to talk anymore. The guilt is where? - in amending the law adopted in this Parliament, deleting the third paragraph of Article 429 so as to allow the application of the new tariff for old bankruptcy before 1.10.2008. Minister, please, because I can read, believe me, I've learned to read before, I don't know, 48 years. That's one thing. That's another thing. July and September, you said, "Now I've got it all worked out." And again, you say, "I've arranged everything," with my policy of 11.7. That's not true! Courts don't take them into account. In court, instead of following your rules, they say, "Revija Manager has published such amounts and such amounts," and they judge according to the magazine Manager. But I think we should - the Supreme Court does not have that authority, because we both know that, but the courts are the last instance in this area. And if you call the prosecutors, then you could probably call the presidents of the higher courts and say, "Let's make a deal, look, there's something wrong." That's what I expect from you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, Mr. Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u327	Now I don't know if I'm going to disappoint you or cheer you up, Mr. Gorenak, but I did, and I had this meeting with the presidents of the courts where we talked about what could be done. I sent them additional warnings at least once or twice below. Of course, I cannot put myself in this role in which you have stood up to assess specific judicial decisions, whether they are correct or not, and I do not have these powers as Minister. Neither do you as a Member, but of course you have the right to your opinion and you have the right to express it. But you have to understand that I am the Minister of Justice and that, above all, I am expected not to get involved in open court proceedings. Therefore, I would like to point out that in order to ensure uniform case law, since this is the case, under our Law on Courts, the Supreme Court is competent. It, however, chooses the way in which this uniform practice will be ensured. In addition, the Presidents of the Courts may exercise their supervisory powers vis-à-vis the Judges if they consider that this is necessary in such a situation. In short, we must have a constitution and a division of power before our eyes. Thank God we have it, this division of power, where we come from, if we just order judges, how to judge and use laws. To that end, we have legal remedies and a court of law up to a constitutional one that can also correct any errors or misapplication of material law in lower courts. And that's all. It's just democracy, and a better system has never been invented by anyone before, as Churchill said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u329	I will not ask for a debate because I am counting on the committee to resolve this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u330	Thank you very much. Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of Health a question. The minister's gone.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Mr President, given that the Minister is absent, I would ask that he also give an oral answer to my question at the next meeting. My question is based on the introduction of the so-called "new health card", which is being introduced by the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance at that time. So far, this card has, I believe, been less useful than we all wanted and caused quite a bit of unpleasantness and, above all, extra work in patients; and this is completely unnecessary. Therefore, this so-called new medical card, which now no longer states that it should be confirmed before a doctor visits, should still be kept, and should then be found in a healthcare home or with a doctor using this card to determine whether the insured person is insured or not. Given that I know this area of professionalism or previous work experience, I am convinced that this new solution, which has now been introduced, is totally unnecessary. I am convinced that by introducing some new software services, as well as new services that will have to service the operation of the new card, this additional burden is primarily the Health Insurance Office. Why do I think so? It is certainly necessary to follow the plans of the previous government, which has already tried to introduce a new ID card in order to allow for the identification or identification of health insurance in this way in the record of the identity card. That would have appreciated the cost. I am sure that the insured themselves would be satisfied with this, as it is now necessary to have both a personal card and a medical card, which would be simplified by a single card. Since we are now reintroducing a solution that is essentially the same as before, I wonder: How much of this card's introduction project itself has cost an insurance company? What's the insurance gonna cost? How long will it take to replace software and everything related to costs that I believe are unnecessary? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u332	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlich will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u333	Thank you very much. With the amendment of the Rail Transport Act, a Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia was established to conduct investments in public railway infrastructure. It is a body within the Ministry of Transport, which, in fact, has important responsibilities with regard to commitments made by the Government as well as by the ministries to strengthen all projects in the field of rail transport or investment, to modernise railway infrastructure, which, of course, we cannot but welcome. Since somehow this body is in the background, but probably has many projects in place, many projects are still ahead of it and it is probably also managing a significant share of tax money and projects that need to be carried out in some way, I am interested in: How do you, Mr. Minister, assess the work or activities of the Slovenian Directorate for Public Infrastructure Investment, led by Dr. Andrej Godec as Director and also as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Slovenian Railways? In short, I would like your assessment of the current situation: What is the situation on this directive now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Transport, Dr. Patrick Vlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u335	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, I'm very pleased with your question. Look, the directorate is running twenty-two investment projects right now, and I'm sure you know them well, which I think was set up by the time you were at the Ministry, a system that shows good monitoring of green, yellow or red projects. I think that's when some sort of traffic light started. And we keep doing that because I think that's a good thing. Currently, there are three projects of twenty-two red, which means that there are a few reasons behind. One of these is signalling devices and remote control on the old Divača-Koper track, and two other projects are like this. I've seen these projects myself. I am sure that you know them too, and I have been assured that the projects will be completed in time, but where they are not, I demand action. So I estimate that out of these 22 projects, others are relatively fine. Since these projects are in different stages, this monitoring system is needed from the preparation of project tasks and tender documents to the execution of public contracts or even physical executions themselves. If you happen to share with me the concern that this organisation may become too small, therefore, too little to be prepared for all that the ministry will be waiting for, then we share the same opinion. In fact, we are thinking about how we would deal with things because, let's say, the second track project itself is a huge project that will require a lot of energy, which will require a lot of work from all involved, and if we just look at all the projects that are in the stages of preparing project tasks, preparing various procurement documents or just physical executions, there are over a billion and a half times in the game. And: yes, this organ is very burdensome. Perhaps at another time he was able to carry out his tasks well enough, in the future it will be necessary to consider how to organize this service in order to be able to carry out his task as quickly and as qualitatively as possible. For the time being, I am appreciating that I have told you how many projects are behind or because of public procurement or because of the contractor - anything - I am satisfied with the work of the director under the leadership of Dr Godc; I am aware that in the future, some steps will have to be taken in the coming projects. We are also very intensive in thinking about this because timely implementation of projects is also relevant because of the modernisation of railway infrastructure itself and thus the competitiveness of our railway carrier and ultimately the use of European resources. But you know, I'm sure, most of the projects. Almost everyone or a large majority was already from the previous term, some are also new, we have now signed contracts, but you know that this is a process. So this state in which we have a direction in which we have so many and so many projects has not been created by my coming, but is a situation like you've already set it up or something like you've actually left it to me as an inheritance. But let me say that things have been going much better since we replaced the leader at the directorship, and I can say that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u336	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Dr. Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u337	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I suppose optimism is in place with both of you and with us in the Slovenian Democratic Party because we are aware of the project. However, despite all of this - no, unfortunately we have no insight into all the projects, impossible. You have an overview of the projects, they have a view of the projects, and we have a view of the projects, and we have citizens because they are public funds, and this view is possible via the website of the Slovenian Directorate for Public Railway Infrastructure Investment. And here you are, Mr. Minister, I ask: Have you ever looked at the website? When was the last time you saw her? I last looked at the website today, it says that it was refreshed on February 26, 2010, but I regret what I could look at and what citizens can look at and get acquainted with does not fuel such optimism as you. For when I look at international projects, say, the new railway connection of Divaca - Koper, this is a project where the planned activities will be carried out in 2009. When we go to domestic projects, such as the Grosuplje-Kočevje route, there are planned activities in 2008 that will be implemented - and we are in 2010. So, I'm asking you: Will this traffic light that you have predicted be provided on the website as well? Not to be seen as projects to be implemented only in 2008.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u338	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Transport Dr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u339	Thanks for the heads-up. Your warning is in place. If this isn't spotty on the website, I'll make sure it is. Every week I learn about all the projects where they are, how they run, what holds them back, and I actually accept criticism if this is not updated on the website, it will be settled.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Franco Juri will ask a question from the Minister without a resource responsible for local self-government and regional development. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u341	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister! On 8 November, the majority of Ankarans decided at the referendum that they wanted an individual congregation of Ankaran. The referendum initiative was adopted in the National Assembly and then confirmed. The government has undertaken to draw up appropriate legislation to enable the establishment of this congregation to be possible. Interested locals wonder what is actually going on: they are concerned that the deadline for initiating proceedings in the National Assembly is rapidly approaching and that the procedure may be threatened by a time delay that might prejudge the course of the whole procedure. That's why I'm asking you: What's going on with the bill? Has this law been prepared yet? Has he already been represented by the National Assembly? And if not: When will this happen? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u342	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Gjerkesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u343	Thank you, President. Dear Members! Thank you for the decisive question and the answer will be such a short and precise one. Thus, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government and the outcome of the consultation referendum on the exclusion of the area of the new municipality of Ankara from the Municipality of Koper, we have already prepared, at the Service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and the establishment of their areas with which new municipalities will be established in February. The bill was sent for coalition coordination on 22 February 2010 and will be forwarded to the National Assembly after the government's consideration. In view of the less difficult amendments to the law, the Government will propose the adoption of legislation following a reduced procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u344	Thank you very much. The question to the Minister of Health will be raised by Andrej Magajn. The minister's gone.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u345	Thank you for your word. The Minister is away, but I'll ask you a question. To this day, even with good health, I cannot answer, I fear that even in the next 30 days, but I will ask this question publicly. In fact, how will the Minister control the separation of the public from private health care, when this is complex and complex to absurdity. The Health Act provides for the introduction of private self-paying market activities in all health homes and hospitals, which will further increase the mixing of public and private health activities - Article 135 of the Act. The bill also makes it possible for private workers to work in health care homes and hospitals, as well as to work in health care homes and hospitals with private concessionaires. Private concessionaires will also be able to continue to work for self-paid private market services. I guess that wasn't enough. Last version, so-called official version 12. 2. We hear that there is still a new version and new possibilities for intertwining public and private, they have opened additional doors; so easily, silently. Article 69 of the Act was revised. This limited public sector employees so that they could work with private individuals with business contracts. These restrictions are no longer, as I say, silently opened this door. And the minister keeps saying, "I've separated public from private!" Maybe that means the way it is today in public pharmacies where employed pharmacists train for the sale of paying products for some kind of merchant. Perhaps a rhetorical question to begin with: Who believes that today? Who, for example, will be able to determine which activity a particular doctor is carrying out at a given time: public or private? How many supervisors would it take to effectively verify the mixed operation of concessionaires? Who will check all concessionaires, commercial, market projects, their eligibility and purposeful use? I'm asking the minister: Does the so-called supervision, according to the new one, have an even more demanding operational programme of organisational, human resources and, last but not least, financial basis? Even now he was limping, so [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u346	Thank you very much. The question to the Minister of Health, who is absent, will be posed by a mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u347	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honors are here! I ask that you answer this question in writing, Mr Minister, because he is absent today. It's cancer week this week. The week of fighting the disease in which we are successfully treated in Slovenia for some cancers still on the tail of developed countries. That means a lot of unnecessary premature deaths. Therefore, I wonder whether in Slovenia the Executive Authority has done everything necessary to enable doctors of the cancer institute, who have long been overloaded with treatment, to be able to devote themselves to the treatment of patients. I guess not. This month it has been two years since the discovery of the first serious errors in the construction of the Onkological Institute of Ljubljana. The new building investor is the Ministry of Health and the Oncological Institute of Ljubljana is the user and manager of the facilities and equipment. In the context of the first phase of the investment, there were, immediately after the transfer, but before the completion of the work or the final calculation, numerous errors in the new construction, as well as questions relating to liability and issues related to the correction of errors and the coverage of the costs of errors, were identified. It appears that, after two years of finding errors, the errors identified are still not remedied. That is why I am asking the responsible person of the investor, this is the Minister of Health. First time. What is the value of past mistakes? Who found out about the repairs? And: Who has borne the costs of correcting these mistakes? Another time. What is the estimated value of correcting pending errors and who will bear the costs of correcting these errors? Third time. Were or would the guarantees in the contract with the SCT company that carried out the work be cashed out? Ter: Who is empowered and responsible for cashing out guarantees? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-01-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u348	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the parliamentary questions. I thank the President of the Government, the Ministers, the Ministers, the Secretary-General of the Government for the answers given. This concludes the meeting of the National Assembly. We'll pick her up tomorrow at 10:00. And before that, at 9:00 p.m., knowledge is harvesting. Thank you very much.
