ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin with the continuation of the 14th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Melita Župevc, Alenka Jeraj, Milenko Ziherl, Villa Rezman, Dr. Peter Verlič until 1300 hours. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE STATUS OF THE COUNTRIES OF OTHER COUNTRIES, THE OBJECTIVES OF THE FRANCE IN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, AFTER A SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u2	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! I present to you a law which should be adopted by the 2003 Constitutional Court no later than October 2003. So more than six years ago. The purpose of the law is in accordance with a series of decisions of the Constitutional Court and in the spirit of the Slovenian Constitution, according to which Slovenia is a legal and democratic country that respects human rights, to fully regulate that part of the injustices to the deleted inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia which relate to their deprived status 18 years ago. In addition to the enforcement of constitutional decisions, the proposal also eliminates certain shortcomings which have been demonstrated in practice in the implementation of the law and in the issuance of supplementary decisions and which also result from the disappearance from the register of permanent residents of other republics of the former SFRJ. The basic solutions to the law are as follows. It lays down the conditions under which a foreigner who was on the day of 25. 6. 1991 A citizen of the other republic of the former SFRJ and who does not yet have a residence permit in our country. Notwithstanding the provisions of the Aliens Act, he shall be granted a permanent residence permit. It lays down in which cases it is considered that the citizens of other republics of the former SFRY, which have been deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations, have been granted permanent residence and registered permanent residence, that is to say, since the termination of the application of permanent residence. It further lays down the criteria for determining whether the conditions of actual life are met in the Republic of Slovenia and which absences from the country of real life are not terminated. The issue of a permanent residence permit for children who were born in Slovenia after 25. 6. 1991 and who have actually lived in the Republic of Slovenia since birth. The issue of a special supplementary decision for deleted, which has been adopted into Slovenian citizenship in the last 18 years after its disappearance, without prior authorisation for permanent residence, is re-ordered. In the opinion of the applicant, the possibility of obtaining a specific decision in return should also be regulated for them. Otherwise, they are in a worse position than those who have been deleted who have obtained a permanent residence permit and to whom the supplementary decisions have already been issued on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court. The law lays down a three-year deadline for the submission of an application for permanent residence permit and procedures will be conducted individually by administrative units. I propose that the National Assembly adopt the proposed law, if not out of an ethical commitment to the people who were wronged by the newly formed state 18 years ago, and out of respect for the Slovenian Constitution. With this law, we don't give anything to anyone, nor compensation to citizens or to electoral rights. We are opening only a legally correct and, after many years, the only way to regulate the status of people who have been illegally erased many years ago. No more and no less. That we do this 18 years after our disappearance and 7 years after the correction of human rights violations has been imposed on us by the Constitutional Court, is a fact that speaks for itself. It is a fact that condemns the further sowing of populism on speculators and war criminals, condemns the inciting of intolerance and the intimidation of people with millions of damages. Hope dies last. I want decent and decent discussions. I also propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision to draw up a formal consolidated text of the law approved by the Assembly as a result of the scope of the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the President, Mr Vinko Gorenak, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you very much. At its 14th meeting, on 13.1.2010 and 1st on 14.1.2010 and on 2nd below, the Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee discussed the above-mentioned proposal for a law submitted by the Government for action. At its 46th meeting, on 4 December 2009, the College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the law should be dealt with in a simplified manner. Members and members of the Committee had material, this is a proposal for a law and an opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The amendments of the SDS Group of the Member States of 6.1.2010 and of the Coalition's parliamentary groups of 7.1.2010 were tabled for consideration on the home working body. Even before the beginning of the second reading of the draft law, the MEP is mag. Branko Grims, on behalf of the SDS Group, proposed that the discussion and decision on the proposal be postponed to one of the following meetings. The reason, of course, is the presentation of public opinions related to this. The Committee did not adopt this proposal. The representatives of the proposer gave an indicative statement of what we have just heard. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the position of the Legal and Legislative Service below. Ms Neža Kogovšek from the Peace Institute and Marjana Učakar from Amnesty International also performed. Finally, the former Minister of the Interior, Andrej Šter and Mag, also appeared. Slavko Fatyak, who has illuminated the circumstances of the so-called deletion or events in this regard. In the debate, individual members and members of the Committee took the lead in correcting the injustices. The coalition MPs advocated the adoption of the law in the proposed text and the opposition opposed it. The Committee adopted amendments to Article 1, Article 1A, Article 1, Article 1B, Article 1C and Article 1D and Article 3, Article 4, Article 5, Article 6, Article 7, Article 8 and Article 10. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the SDS Group. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the amendment law is also annexed to the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u6	Dear President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today, in this high assembly, we will speak again about deleted - individuals who were illegally deprived of their permanent residence on 26 February 1992, as the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia concluded. These individuals we will talk about today were permanent residents of our country at the time of independence. They were also among those who were already full of years of age, invited to decide on the future fate and independence of Slovenia. The effects of the deletion were severe: loss of employment, health insurance, social protection, access to the educational system and could also be listed. Many of those mentioned today were expelled, had to leave behind family members who were Slovenian citizens, were not allowed to return to Slovenia and so on. It is not only the Constitutional Court, of course, that many of us refer to this deletion as a discriminatory and illegal measure, but primarily for a serious violation of human rights, greater than any other human rights violation that this country has committed in its short existence. During the six months following the proclamation of the independent state, the life of the deleted has changed radically, of course we are only talking about people from other republics of the former common country. Individuals later had to start regulating their status as all other foreigners who had just entered Slovenia. Other foreigners who had a permanent residence permit in Slovenia before the collapse of the former common country, however, this status was automatically transferred to the period after the independence period. The new situation was many of the above - mentioned cases only when they wanted to extend the document when the police stopped them when they wanted to continue their schooling and so on. They could not complain about the decision of the State, as they had never been given a decision to delete it. It's hard to imagine what these people had to experience. Of course, they tell us a lot of their stories. Some of them are likely to be heard in the debate today. In the Group of Members, we are indeed determined to make amends to these people in the shortest possible time and, of course, we will support the proposal for a law. The Minister made clear the ways and changes that this law brings. In the Group of Members, we would like to stress, however, that it is likely that today's debate will also show our relationship to the State institutions, to the Constitutional Court and to the Constitution as a fundamental act of our statehood. Of course, our attitude towards individual human and civil rights in relation to the collective right of our people to write their own judgment. We hope that today we will write one of the more beautiful chapters in this judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u7	Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u8	Good afternoon. Your Honors are here! I welcome you, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, Madam Secretary! The debates on so-called deleted have created an acute political climate and have been upsetting the public for years. Even a referendum was held, at which the citizens firmly stated that they were not adopting legislation to regulate the law backwards and to take decisions back. This was confirmed by the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, which, immediately after the Constitutional Decision, pointed out the inadmissibility of issuing decisions for return without determining the actual situation of the actual residence of these persons in Slovenia. As a result, the then President of the Government even expelled the Slovenian People's Party from the Government. The status in the new country, whether permanent residence or the regulation of citizenship, should, in our firm conviction and in the opinion of many prominent lawyers, be governed by a regulation of the same rank as we did in the case of independence, at least by constitutional law, if not by amending the Constitution. In the new country, we all, including the current citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, applied to the former citizens of the SFRJ, so the new country had to make a legal decision on how to regulate their status and status. Therefore, there is no discrimination here, and the law has laid down conditions for all. Legal and national continuity also needed to be established. Since its independence, several attempts have been made to regulate the status of former SFRJ citizens residing in the territory of Slovenia, although they have been repeatedly invited, some have refused to settle their new status in the new country. It is also unacceptable for former aggressors to obtain permission to stay in our country. The debate on the Minister's interpretation in this mandate has also shown that the data collected at the Ministry cannot possibly be correct, not to say true, which all points to the interests of some and the attempt to play Parliament as a legislator in our constitutional regulation. In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we ask whether this government denies the legitimacy and legality of the conclusions of the then independent government and the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. On the 16th day. 9. In 1992, the then government adopted a decision to consider the condition of the then requested three-year stay under Article 16 of the Aliens Act to be the actual stay of all those who were actually staying in Slovenia at the time, even before 26. 2. 1992, that is, before the date of the entry into force of the decisions of the Aliens Act which are to be disputed. Otherwise, the bill before us provides for individual decision-making procedures for permanent residence permits for deleted persons, i.e. their individual treatment, which begins at the request of an individual. At the same time, it provides for the issue of a specific decision deemed to have had the foreigner's registered permanent residence back, i.e. from the deletion. This is not in accordance with the Administrative Procedures Act. It's legally unacceptable and actually impossible and realistic because you can't create some back-up status. It is obvious that this will create a just foundation on which these persons can claim compensation from the State. Tell this honestly that the citizens will know the consequences of your marriage. Furthermore, the conviction that the law does not explicitly state that the issued residence permits or specific decisions under this Act do not constitute the fulfilment of the condition of actual life in the Republic of Slovenia in proceedings for obtaining the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia are likely not to stand before the Constitutional Court's judgment, given how the Constitutional Court ruled in 2002. For all these reasons, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not support the adopted law, even though we want the status of these people and their children to be definitively regulated. If this were settled by consensus and by the adoption of a constitutional law requiring the consent of all parliamentary parties, the so-called deleted and also our citizens would respect this solution as the most just, as the only possible and constitutionally permissible solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u9	Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u10	Mr Vice-President, Madam Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal for a law on the regulation of the status of citizens of other countries, the successors of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia in the Republic of Slovenia. According to our assessment, it is now a real time for our country to correct the wrongs committed and, after eighteen years, to settle the status of those who have not yet settled themselves. Thus, they will be able to obtain a permanent residence permit in Slovenia after the application has been filed and when the legal conditions are met and in an individual procedure they will be able to obtain a permanent residence permit in Slovenia for the future and, with a special supplementary decision, legalisation of their stay in Slovenia from the deletion. The proposed law, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, defines the concept of actual residence and expressly states that the finding of residence is not considered to be a nationality. It also expressly states that a person who has been convicted of genocide, crimes against humanity or war atrocities cannot obtain the status, nor can any person who is being prosecuted for any of the offences listed above. As well as correct assessment of the provision that deleted, which currently does not live in Slovenia, was granted an application for permanent residence in Slovenia, must be permanently settled within one year. We can assume that today we will again witness stories of enormous damages by the opposition, and we would like to remind the DeSUS Group that 52 claims for compensation have been filed by the courts, which have been rejected by half, and no compensation has yet been legally granted. Because of the solutions offered by the bill and assessed for good, we will, as has already been said, support the proposed law in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič noble has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u12	Nice hello to you all! There was no erasure. And it can't be erased either. There have been legal solutions for which the Republic of Slovenia has been praised in all international forums, although there has not been such good regulation in the world. What happened in a beautiful, timely way was that the coalition decided to freeze its attitude towards the country, to turn away, and to seek the political support of some, because this figure of so-called eraseds grew from day to day, so that, in their desire, those people would give their vote to coalition parties, give them everything they wanted. She'll give them money, she'll give them positions, she'll give them jobs, and she'll apologize to them on behalf of our common homeland. We do not agree to this in the Slovenian National Party and we will never agree to this. Even those about 200,000 citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have settled their status, I think they are now feeling played and bald. After all, people decided on the legal path and confirmed it, now the coalition takes it and shows it to them as fools who couldn't speculate, like those first 6 thousand and 8 thousand and 20 thousand and 28 thousand and in a month, certainly 30 thousand, depending on where they have friends and what friends they have. I think these people feel cheated, too, because even worse they feel defrauded by those citizens and those people who live with us, who have nothing to eat, who have no job, who can't pay tuition for their children, who can't pay for electricity, who can't pay for heating that hits their house over their heads - but nobody cares. Even those who have been brought by coalition gentlemen and coalition parties to the Vienna Bar are irrelevant. These people have been wiped out. These are the ones that should help them, but I don't know who, the speculator, the fraud and anyone else who tries to win on behalf of today's Slovenia. There have been cases of injustice. But those cases are being solved to ad persona. But the coalition is not for this, because then it would have turned out to be abuse, error and very little. This has to be done in both the long and the long way, and if possible the country is still being plundered. At the end of the day, when Pahor is doing a new SHS, we do not know where he has put the Slovenians here, certainly in the last place we know him, in this case it is clear that he will try to do everything to push through and there are no such laws that we will worship left-right-right-top-down again. I expect that in the next round the coalition and its parties will submit a law that also the Italian fascists and Nazis and those members of the Wermacht, who fought in the Second World War after Slovenia's mountain-down, have a right. They've been here for three years. Of course they were, for over three years. But now we're going to confess to them. We have already acknowledged everything possible for them, because the government does not hope to say anything, nor to the Italians, nor to the Austrians, nor to Hungary, and at least to the Croats. In Croatia, such a law would never be adopted because, despite everything, despite not agreeing with their policy - they appreciate their country. Our coalition is ready to spit on our country. There is no problem when petitions for the abolition of the Slovenian Armed Forces are written, as the white documents were written at the time of the JLA attack, and most of the time the same people do. And this same company today is trying to give Slovenian citizens a slap [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and humble them before all those who once tried to crush us. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u13	Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor, on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u14	Your Honor! It was written on 26.2.1992 when the then Demos government, the first democratically elected, made a mistake, some say, a crime and so on. The error that has affected many people has stopped at 25 thousand 761 people. It's been a lifetime since then. There have been many attempts, many public controversy about what to do, how to do to fix this stain. There was no political will and, above all, a sufficient number of votes in parliaments at various meetings to do so. There is no need to mention the decisions of the Constitutional Court, the recommendations of international organisations, the demands of humanitarian organisations and various NGOs, which have culminated in this year's United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva recently, when it did sow something bright at the end of the tunnel, when we were able to present to this organisation that we are finally solving the 18-year-old issue. It is about democratic, civilisational gains that each country must correct and act responsibly when it recognizes injustice. And we believe that today, not all the discussions that have arisen and appear, divide citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia into those who are conscious, who point to suspected traitors, collaborators and similar who are on this list, and those who think that everyone who has not been tried, who has not been brought before a court that has not been accused, for which there is no evidence, cannot be dealt with in the way that this is done here. There is talk of how our children and the next generation will be impoverished because of the alleged damages that our actions are supposed to cause, so the actions of those we are going to take today, I am sure, have adopted this law. No, another positive judgment was overturned at a higher instance. Well, there's no danger. In any case, however, in the rule of law it is considered possible to correct injustices in one way or another, in a moral, material, or other way, to correct an injustice that occurs to a person. Is it possible that today those who were our fellow workers, neighbors, acquaintances, etc., after one whole full - time period for a person do not have the right to do so? Is it possible to read one single decision by the Constitutional Court or any other recommendation by international institutions other than that it is time for us to do something ourselves and no one else to do it? I can believe that it has taken time and that those who do not believe, who doubt, who even today think that it is a conspiracy of those who correct injustice, but not a conspiracy of those who have caused it, will realize that it is human dignity, that democratic acquisitions are the right and duty of those who have power in their hands to correct everything that needs to be fixed if it has already been too long. There is no doubt in the Liberal Democracy Club. Since we participated in these processes, we have voted in favour of positive solutions. And today we will.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u15	Mr Miran Potrč has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, Secretary of State, President! It's been 18 years since he was 26. 2. 1992 unlawfully erased the circus of 25,000 inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia from the register of permanent population. Illegality was found several times by the Constitutional Court, first in 1994 and entirely indisputable in 2004. Unlawful conduct was caused by the fact that we are foreigners, right to persons who were citizens of the former SFRJ when their own independent and independent Slovenia came into existence and did not ask for Slovenian citizenship of Slovenia to acquire the status of a foreigner in a new way, but not like all others who were foreigners of other countries and without a particular thorny path to which they had to submit. Under such conditions, the Constitutional Court found that they had been discriminated against and therefore treated unlawfully, resulting in a decision in 1990 at the time of the adoption of the Aliens Act. In order to realize their intention, it is now clear and confirmed by the representatives of the then authorities at the meeting of the parent working body that the documents in force to these persons had no documents to stay in Slovenia, that they had to start a thorny and long-lasting route of gaining foreign status to a new one, which meant first three years of temporary residence, of course under the conditions necessary to do so, to find documents from their former republics, the current countries that were in the war, and so on. These facts are no longer at issue today, and I think we have found them as indisputable at the last meeting of the parent's working body. Therefore, Members and Members of the Social Democrats expect that this will be taken into account when deciding on the proposed law and that we will finally adopt the law today. Let me say in advance that the proposals proposed by the opposition as amendments are the same as they were all years ago under the so-called constitutional law. The problem of constitutional law is not form, but content. It specifically seeks to destroy the content of the findings of the Constitutional Court. Today, however, the opposition's warnings are clear, I hope, all of them: that they did not exactly warn that "on the block" would be done, not individually. Undoubtedly, legal entitlements will be identified individually, under precise and strict conditions under the law. This claim by the opposition is therefore unrealistic. Second. It is not true that compensation will be granted on the basis of law. The law does not provide for any compensation, and all of the claims for compensation submitted so far have been rejected as a result of the statute of limitations or because the claim has not had a legal basis so far. All fears of millions of damages and damage to the country have become fictional and false intimidation for all objective decision makers. And finally. It is also unrealistic to claim that people who have been organised and proven to work towards the interests of our country, in short, the invaders and speculators, as they have so far liked to be called in part of the opposition, will be entitled. It is therefore an amended proposal and it would be appropriate for us to finally accept it in Slovenia. Let me tell you two more. The text of the law, as laid down by the home labour force, is fully in line with the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service and the amendments of the opposition are tabled on the basis of the content of the previous, following the content of the unconstitutional, law as proposed. Even so, the amendments have been tabled to forget about the dates, and they have used the old dates a few years ago. It is not a prestigious debate, but to finally correct the injustices committed by the then Demos in 1990 and 1992 [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Branko Grims on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u18	Your Honor! I gather a very nice greeting for everyone and allow me to begin with what I had a little missed at the beginning of this session. Today is March 8th, the day of the wife. So allow me, on my behalf, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, i.e. SDS, and I am sure, all of us in this National Assembly, to sincerely congratulate all of us on their international holiday! Among them, of course, also all fellow Members, Madam Minister, Madam Secretary of the National Assembly, and also all those women in the services of the National Assembly who may not be noticeable, but who, with their work above, also allow this meeting to take place! But it is a day when, for sure, in a country that respects the value of patriotism, one group of women should have in mind in particular. These are the women who fell in the war for Slovenia. Every year, I meet them at various celebrations in memory of events now nearly 20 years ago. Every year. They just miss the people who gave the best they could for this country. A lot of people gave their health, and a lot of people lost someone they knew. And let's ask ourselves what kind of gift this coalition prepared for these women on March 8th. In the SDS Group, we have drafted an amendment that is essential and goes to the very core of this story, and it is spoiled. And excludes from the possibility of exercising rights, any compensation, any right to return, anything else, exclusively those who attacked Slovenia with weapons or speculators. Just them. This is a category that we have even just heard in this National Assembly that it is not in this group at all. And yet this amendment, which would be the only logical, only human and only respectful of these women, was rejected on the committee. Today, the coalition will have a final exam. I hope that it will be implemented and will vote in favour of the SDS MP's amendment and from the possibility of exercising the rights to return, to enforce damages, to enforce the ratings under this law, to exclude at least those last invaders under the red star who attacked Slovenia with weapons or speculators. Not only does it owe the women fallen into the war for Slovenia, it would also be a gift to all those new citizens who wanted to respect the legal order of that country in 1991 and responded by themselves and, on behalf of their children, their families, to arrange for either temporary or permanent residence or citizenship for their families. And many of these were later disgraced, even exposed to threats or physical violence by those who are now, as some of the victims, so called wiped out, the aggressors. I would like to remind you, for example, of what Mr Alijeski described very nicely in this Chamber of the National Assembly at the first public presentation of opinions when he said how he was measured by a traitor by some Serbian officers, who today were wiped out in front of that part of Gorenjska, and how they predicted that they would kill him and his family. Because he did what he did that came out of the legal order and he arranged the status for himself and his family. And many such cases were later presented. Finally, you owe the adoption of this amendment to all those women in Slovenia who, together with their husbands and sons, co-created this independent state of Slovenia. And the particular reason that further substantiates this is that this law, in this form, should not appear in front of the National Assembly at all, because, like the transitional left and its ideology, it is based on lies. It states: "The bill will have no financial implications for the state budget." Please! On the basis of this law, costs will be incurred for the execution of procedures [[End warning sign]] , for the control of proceedings, for all possible complaints, for all actions before the courts, for the final payment of damages and for the exercise of rights of redress, which is the sum that can substantially exceed those formal compensations. Therefore, the adoption of this amendment, which we have tabled today, is a symbolic and very important act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2010 All the amendments tabled, with the exception of the amendment to Article 4 of the Law, are substantively linked to the amendment to Article 1 of the Law, and the assembly will also hold a discussion at Article 1 on the substantive related amendments, which is the amendments to Articles 2, 3, 7 and 8, and then we will discuss Article 4 of the Law. I shall put to the debate Articles 1, 2, 3, 7 and 8 and the amendments of the SDS Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Check-in is on. Mr. Anton Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u20	I guess I'll have to do it again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u21	Mr. Anton Anderlich, you have the floor. But not that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u22	Which one? The one from before.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u23	That's why you called earlier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u24	Yeah, sure. I'm probably gonna have to take this one more time, 'cause it's more articles anyway. Initially, the text of the draft constitutional law is presented in a slightly different way in all the amendments and the desire to correct them in this way. If that were acceptable, and if these amendments were to regulate things properly, then this would have been arranged in your own way long ago. Then how is it possible to accept these amendments today? I don't think so, so I won't support them either. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the arguments for rejecting the amendments relating to this amendment would also be more understandable. You're talking about that we owe it to some to accept the amendments. The truth is the other way around. The National Assembly is obliged to settle these questions. And it is not true that 5,360 children were hostile against the newly born country of Slovenia. It is not true and there is no evidence that there were 10 000 896 women in the ranks who fought or speculated at the expense of the new state of Slovenia. Therefore, after all this time, it is possible to follow up on the debates that took place on the United Nations Human Rights Council in Geneva in February of this year, where the fact that Slovenia is undisputedly hailed is meeting those requirements of the Constitutional Court decisions and also the general standards, the standards that apply in democratic countries in force in the civilized world, and that they are correcting injustices if they have been committed, in this case have been, and they are finalising certain issues. There were many personal stories and fates. Also on the Committee on Internal Policy, when we discussed the law in second reading, some of these were presented. On the other hand, the harsh rejection, the disqualification labelling, the what you're doing, because we already know, we've been told by a variety of people what some have been doing. As stated in the introduction, since these amendments are practically repeated in some of the previous proposals of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Basic Constitutional Charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia and also some other proposals, I will not support this. Also because in the legal profession, after all that we have heard in the last ten years, that the same question three, four, five lawyers have thought completely differently and many of the labs have been written down, many experts were involved if they had differed in the past ten years, then we can read in this law that some of these same and other lawyers think that this is an appropriate response to the requirements of the Constitutional Court decision and other requirements for regulating this issue. That is why we believe, I believe, because I speak for myself when I discuss this amendment, that it has reached a time when I can support this law without these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u25	Mr. Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you very much. On 26 June 1991, the three-house assembly adopted important legislation, legislation important for the independence of Slovenia. Among others, the laws governing the status rights of citizens and citizens of Slovenia and people who lived in the then common country until independence, independence of Slovenia and had the option under our legislation to decide whether to accept citizenship of a new independent Slovenian independent state without any conditions, provided that they lived in Slovenia at that time on the day of plebiscite, and with the request or declaration that they wanted Slovenian citizenship. At the time, there was also a law on foreigners who were foreign nationals of others, to say simple European countries, but not countries that had already or were in the process of being born from the former republics of the former SFRY, given rights such as had already been acquired on 26 June. They did not have to report a permanent residence, nor the status of a foreigner; they maintained the status they had. The third group of citizens, however, were those who did not apply for Slovenian citizenship as an independent state, but wanted to become foreigners in that country, with the citizenship of the former republics of the former SFRY, who were now becoming countries. They were then debated in Parliament, and it was found that it would be wrong for them to be subject to specific conditions and that their status should be regulated in the same way as for others. Nor did the then government of Demos object. However, the majority of the Members and Members opposed, and then the delegates in the Slovenian Assembly and the amendment, which would settle the issue, were not accepted by the majority. The discussion was further under way and it was proposed that these issues should be regulated in specific mutual agreements between the countries emerging in the former Yugoslavia. Unfortunately, such agreements could not have been concluded without the fault of Slovenia, because there were war situations, especially in Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, with very tragic consequences. On this basis, it has become important, great - today it is said that it is about 25,000 people - a group of people who did not have their status regulated. The new legislation on foreign status did not recognise them, they did not ask for citizenship - for many reasons. I think it is extremely unfair, most of them, or to declare everything as an occupying or speculative, because the reasons were very different, legally speaking, and we, ladies and gentlemen, are a legal state or should be. After all, the National Assembly not only decides on political aspects, but also on legal aspects, and it is clear that everyone at that time had the freedom to decide on one of the two statuses: or on the status of a citizen of a new country, which has been decided by a large majority, about 170 thousand, today, we are talking about whether to decide whether to gain foreign status in a new country, with permanent residence as you had it. However, without this being written in the law, it was unclear enough that they had to acquire new status to destroy existing documents for these people. Today we know that this is true, no matter what forms they were. Mr Debelak himself said at the last meeting of his mother's working body that he knew that documents had been breached, documents had been destroyed, and it was a completely irrelevant form of destruction; it was important that the documents had been destroyed; it was important that such destroyed documents had then prevented the people who were supposed to have these documents to be identified in the new country and that they were required to obtain their documents from the country where they still had citizenship and wanted it, but that country was in war. Over the border, many could not arrange these documents, but many who managed to get across the border could not go back to Slovenia because they could not prove themselves with any document that would give them the right to stay in Slovenia and to a permanent residence in Slovenia. Thus came this problem, which could be resolved very quickly, and it was not only the first Demos government at the time, but also later, that they did not deal with it properly. It's been 18 years. I hope that they will be settled today because, in the meantime, the Constitutional Court has engaged several times and has always had the same views on how rights should be regulated. The amendments we are discussing today and proposed by the opposition parties are at all important points of content contrary to the express views of the Constitutional Court. They are in sharp contradiction because they make it a condition for a person to gain status, to engage him from 26 February onwards, according to the rules in force at that time, even under the rules declared by the Constitutional Court in breach of the Constitution. This is the first condition that the Constitutional Court said was unacceptable. Another time. The Constitutional Court expressly stated that since the removal was illegal on 26 February 1992, the status of permanent residence should be restored by that date. The amendments explicitly state that the status should not be restored by this date and are at this second point in direct contradiction with the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court demanded that the conditions of actual life in Slovenia be further defined and that a deadline be set, which will require at least a year's absence from Slovenia, so that the status would not be recognised. The opposition gentlemen propose this deadline for 6 months, in a very different way from the decision of the Constitutional Court. Requirements are made for decisions already taken, in particular those issued on the basis of the so-called 8th point of the Constitutional Court, to be made subject to a special procedure, to be questioned and to be reopened. This is in clear contradiction with the Constitutional Court's decision to grant these persons the right to permanent residence on 26 February. And there's something else that could be listed. Ladies and gentlemen, the motions for amendments! You are specifically talking about content that is contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision. You know well that what I am saying is true, but it is not the demagogies that you will use, and you will link this law to independence, to the difficult problems that Slovenia faces, with the enormous costs, with the gifts that the state will give, but these are fears that have not proved real in recent years of your discussions. We have individual procedures, everyone will be tested in accordance with the criteria of the law. We do not have provisions on the right to compensation and all the claims so far have been rejected before the courts. Yes, gentlemen. And you write that no compensation will ever be possible, which the Constitutional Court has explicitly found is to be determined by judicial proceedings, not by the content of the law. And the court proceedings impose on us, as none of the above has been favourable to investors of possible damages and could still be listed. I expect that if we are already leading the debate today, we will be leading the debate on the facts, that we will guide the content of the proposed solutions, that we will lead the amendments and what they really mean, but not that the debate will be aimed at accusing people who have not been able to exercise the right given them by the Constitutional Court for 18 years. That is why we will reject these amendments in the Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u27	Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u28	We're hearing the same story again. That there are no ones in this group who once attacked Slovenia with weapons, so there are no speculators in this group. If that's true, then it's a chronological argument that you will both take our amendment and vote for it. You've been saying that all along. And we warn you that this claim that you're repeating all the time is unfounded, obviously untrue. So. And you know it. And that's why you're running from this amendment like the devil from the cross. Because this amendment would eliminate those who attacked Slovenia with weapons or speculators. Earlier, one of the predecessors of the current coalition mistakenly said that what was proposed was exactly the same as the constitutional law that we had once given as the starting point and warned that this was meant as the starting point for agreement to find consensus, because we were aware that this required a two-thirds majority, but we were constantly running into a deaf ear. For the moment when either the constitutional or any other legal sieve was cut down, those who attacked Slovenia with weapons would be left in prison. And this is really about buying election votes. The Constitutional Law, as we once proposed, provided for the possibility of a complete elimination of all possible ways of enforcing reparations in return for all categories. There might also be flattening. We also discussed this in one of the first drafts of the constitutional law. The flatisation, if that amount were lower than the average amount of one court case, would, of course, be a rational solution from the point of view of the national economy. But in any case, the basis of the constitutional law was one that interferes with the core of the story and is repeated today by this amendment. We'd rule out those who attacked Slovenia with weapons, the invader, so... If you reject this amendment, it will be obvious that it is only the first time in history that the occupying or occupiers are rewarded. What this leaves behind can hardly be imagined. This will be a precedent that will certainly interest everyone else in the past. I personally hope this doesn't happen. This would be a precedent, i.e. the reward of the invaders, not only for Slovenia, but for the entire democratic Europe and the whole democratic world. For this reason, I claim that such an amendment, which excludes exclusively those who attacked Slovenia with weapons, would also go beyond the principle of weighing constitutional rights at the time of its adoption at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I have never read in any decision of the Constitutional Court that the Constitutional Court commands that the occupying party and all those who first sent their families to their home republics should be rewarded and, of course, did not sign them off. This was, above all, a violation of the legislation of that time. That's why, by the way, so many women and children are among the so-called deleted. Then they attacked Slovenia with their weapons, were ashamed to withdraw, because they were defeated and then returned a few years later, and then under the winged account with everything that meant Slovenian independence, because they had to be charged with the carriers of independence, they began to lift their heads. The last of their imaginations, which we have now seen quite a few times, should even be dealt with criminally with by all those who have been put into this position. Now, I don't know who they think, those who fought in the war for Slovenia, those who correctly carried out their official duties under the legal apparatus of the state of Slovenia on the basis of the legislation and regulations of that time? Those who have taken political, other solutions, I don't know who, but something like that, I'm sorry, the world has never seen before. This is a real precedent, which literally cannot be taken as exclusively as I personally believe that since the beginning of this story, the institutional attempt to humiliate Slovenia's independence as a whole and all, without exception, is on the left, right, ultra left, wherever we have honestly built this country. And then it pulls that hair pulled from the winged, that's anyway what we have is just the sequel to everything that was after the II. World War II. With the Huda Cave, this country has nothing in common, but it represents its contradiction, only when it comes to the issue of human rights. Contrary to the constitutional law, which ruled out the possibility of compensation, we do not understand as compensation only the formal ones awarded by the court, but also the exercise of other rights to redress. Once again, this amount may be much higher than those formally awarded compensations. Just imagine the difference in some rights between Slovenia and other former Yugoslav republics, such as pay or pension. If anyone can do this again, it will be very interesting, and it will burden not only this generation, but two generations further, while you have already relied on this poor Slovenia for 6.3 billion euros in one year and in such circumstances, when you have put on Slovenia for 6.3 billion euros and increased the number of unemployed by 40 000 you are taking on such projects and another, which is also going very well in this context. There is hardly any talk in the public about the importance of the treaty that the current government has gone through, including the President of the State, to sign in Serbia. Every month, after writing one of the biggest newspapers, the €5 million tax money budget now goes to Serbia on this basis. It wouldn't have to be signed. It could have waited a little longer. That's why you're gonna end your scholarships, end your pops. Here you can see what your priorities are. This aprioral rejection of this amendment is also irrational for you. This, I think, also reflects the nervousness that some of you have been communicating with, because you know well that even in your species there are no doubt people who have proved to be genuinely co-created this country since the first minute. They certainly won't approve of it because you're doing it. No one among them will approve of this. But if you want to check this out, let's all go along with this solution to the referendum. Let's just ask if you're in favour of getting compensation and all the other rights from the title of the so-called delete, including the invaders, that is, the people who attacked Slovenia with weapons or speculators. Let us take this question to the consultation referendum, and I call on you to do so, and then let us continue to decide on the fate of this amendment. But you know what would happen. More than a plebiscite majority, more than the majority who once rejected your first so-called technical law on deleted votes against 94 and a few percent of the people who would refuse such a solution because you are contrary to the fundamental values of Slovenian independence. And no one who has been contrary to the fundamental values of Slovenian independence has benefited from this. You can stop the truth as much as you want, but you will also not benefit from contradicting the fundamental values of Slovenian independence. You may really buy for a huge amount of money from any additional electorate, but you will lose more because this man with common sense, with a minimal sense of respect for his country, will certainly not support it, but any political direction is, however. Just a few more words about what came up again, "yeah, there's no cost here." This is such a big and fat lie or, as it is now said, a mistake, according to the President - we know that when someone in the current coalition says a big lie, the president comes in and says, "You know, it was just a mistake." When another law is formed, just to compare, comparisons are always instructive, it happened days ago that our law was put into question because we only suggested that certain data that the institution already collects be specifically about the operation of trade unions, even published publicly, say, on the website. There are practically no costs for this, and we wrote that there are no special costs. And it was particularly rejected that this was not true. Now let's see what it says here: "The bill will have no financial implications for the state budget." It'll run into thousands of procedures. All this requires people, their time. It will then likely be sent and related to possible complaints, to administrative proceedings at a second level, and this is also linked to costs. We've already got double costs. Then at least a part of these, no one can predict at this moment what it will be like to require reimbursement either of certain rights or to go directly to the court to seek compensation, or both. And there will also be court costs, and if no one in the final stage gets anything, as you insist, there will be court costs. You yourself have passed the Free Legal Aid Act, which guarantees them a free lawyer, which we will, of course, be paid by taxpayers. It will not be for free, we will pay it, all people, citizens and citizens, who will therefore have a lower quality of life. That'll cost you, too. Then there will be costs of court proceedings at multiple levels; you all know that this goes through the courts. And then in the end, it will pay off all these rights, in all cases where these people will succeed. And they probably will, given that you're giving them a legal basis. This is a huge swindle, as they say, but with damages, citizenship has nothing to do with it. Firstly, the issuance of such decisions is, of course, the legal basis for the start of new deadlines, which is probably already clear to everyone. Secondly, when it comes to the level of costs of procedures, it is clear that it is a long period of time. And just imagine in some minor matter that someone enforces, what it means in such a case, to still calculate interest back. That's what we're talking about. And that the tragedy of Slovenian independence and what you are doing will be perfect, that even those who have attacked Slovenia should have the right to do so. And don't say it isn't! At this point he is still alive, and at a second stage, because it was again because the man went to a higher level because he was at a lower rate rejected, but a live lawsuit for an extremely high, almost million amount against the State of Slovenia by just the person who was proved at the head of the JLA tank column, who penetrated and beat human rights by the way, even civilians against one at the border crossings at the northern border. It's a real state. Interestingly, in these days we were able to read everything we could about a cleaner and a similar, tragic case if it did happen. Surely it must be determined and corrected if someone is truly wronged, but it is in an individual procedure. But no one will convince me that any injustice has been committed in all the cases that I mentioned earlier. And that's why it's really going. And what logic is it to quote what you are? You say here again, no, it's not that, but once we've considered our proposal for a constitutional law, one of the most famous members of the coalition there answered the topic of the notes, quote, "You know, Mr Grims, if I'm disturbed, it's that you're reading to these people that they've speculated." I quote. "What's wrong if they speculated. Is that illegal?" And so that we may not now exercise all rights of compensation, etc. And everyone else in the coalition who was there that moment almost broke their necks because they were so quick to nod and enthusiastically approve of those words. I'm sorry, but this is the result of what has also interfered with some of my introductory debate. Duty, I used the term to accept this amendment, it's a moral duty. Moral duty to women who have fallen into the war for Slovenia, to their mothers, daughters, to the wives of all those new citizens who have experienced violence, threats because they have arranged their status loyally to the state of Slovenia. And of course it's a moral duty on all those women, and if you want, all of us who have truly created this country of Slovenia together. And this amendment of ours reveals the essence of this story, why this whole story is really going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u29	Mr. Rogers, please. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would like to remind you and, of course, all present that today, we are now discussing articles and amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 7 and 8. The speaker now spoke for about 15 minutes about the amendments to Article 4 and Article 4, which, of course, he would not expect from a man who seemed to be "clean" with such legal business knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you so much for reminding me. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you so much for reminding me. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have an important law on the table, and by adopting this law, there is a test of the attitude towards independence, to patriotism, to the other values associated with the creation of the Slovenian state. We know that on the basis of this law, there is a desire to return permanent residence status for a crowd of people who have grown from 18,000 to 25,000 at the time of the current government. For once. And, of course, today, it is strictly claimed that all of this category has been violated by human rights. On the basis of the current government's claim, the current coalition is heavily muddled abroad, trying to reduce the reputations of the country, which in those days was exemplary for Europe and the European Union, and last but not least, it was based on an expert opinion by Mirjam Škrková, a later constitutional judge of recognised authority. The political reasons that the current coalition does not want and that it has not in the past wanted this rescheduling to be done selectively, these causes are political. All of us, I have not heard politics from so-called spring parties or from these parties, which would not say that they have happened, perhaps, a mistake and we also have injustices, and that we need to fix it and that we have been intensively correcting it, but there is another policy at work today. Politics, which have also been given to many who have been on the side of the occupying party, which have been expressed by speculators, have some rights on the basis of which those who have been identified for Slovenia will be awarded 170 000 and other citizens of Slovenia, in the future also be penalised materially with the compensation to be paid to this account. And look, two months ago, it seemed that this manipulation of the Slovenian public would finally be successful. On the march, the Minister defended this as a legal state, legal solutions and, of course, in connection with this, the whole process of some kind of apotheosis, the apothesis of the Minister, the person of the year, the face of the year, the Slovenian woman of the year - it was all so made that it went in this direction, how lofty the function of the Minister was. But other things happened. Things happened that surprised you. This is the Baričevič case and the Pogačar case, the Pogačar building.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u34	Mr Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u35	Let me get this straight. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u36	I'll have to give you a reminder if you don't listen to me and if you don't discuss what we're discussing, that's what it says, about the amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u37	I am discussing Article 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u38	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u39	I am discussing Article 1 and arguing why [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u40	Please, peace, Lord Jerovšek, be so kind and listen to me and accept my instruction and discuss the amendment to the articles we are discussing. [[...]] Please. I'll be very [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u41	I ask myself all the time, and this argument is extremely important, Mr President, and don't disturb me in the future, because now is a different time when we accept what was one month ago when there were no other issues that explain the whole spectrum.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u42	Mr. Jerovšek. I wasn't bothering you. You were bothering me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u43	And because of this, ladies and gentlemen, what is proposed in article 1 of the amendment is to grant such status only to those who have lived continuously, who have not been on the side of the occupying party who have not been expressed by the speculators, of course, an urgent condition that they do not complain about the place of Slovenian citizens and those who have claimed to be a Slovenian country. On the Committee on Internal Policy 3. 2. Mr Šter and Mr Debeljak, current officials, participated. They made it very clear how invitations were sent. Only for Jesenice 1700 invited them to come to order their status. There were 60 of them. Then Mr Debeljak also said that he was in Postojna that year, the teacher told him that in September there was no whole class of children who moved away, that he simply disappeared. All these people have moved away and all the people have come back later and want to get back status and all the rights that go with it and compensation from the state of Slovenia. At that time, ladies and gentlemen, you looked at the ground when Mr Fatty and Mr Šter explained this. You were burned and you didn't answer anything. Mr Šter also suggested that these people, as he said, acted legitimately, legally and that they also deserved recognition from the National Assembly. On this basis, ladies and gentlemen, I have proposed that the Committee find that the conduct of the administrative authorities on the adoption of the Aliens Act under the legislation in force at that time was legal and legitimate. You turned him down. You've reached a conclusion that it was illegal, that it was criminal. I'm asking you, how many administrative officers have you filed criminal charges against? You've reached such a conclusion. Submit criminal charges against the most responsible workers and officials, that they acted unlawfully and unlawfully, because in this case you will be met by human judgment and human anger, as also in the case of Baricevic, when you saw how many ministers, officials in Slovenia created people in two categories. To those who can achieve anything and those who can't with the connections of ministers and officials. Today, the loudest are those who say that in Slovenia there have been injustices about human rights violations. Those who today erased human dignity for the workers in the stadium made them slaves, according to reports. On this page, however, Slovenians are told that they violated human rights. Almost the same category of people. First, they must restore human dignity to those who must work there, and they must be from other republics, and they must commit suicide because they have been humiliated. And that's duality. Here, when they see the benefits for a particular category of people, here they talk about human rights violations, when they see the benefits, huge benefits for lawyers in the years to come, who will be able to serve on this account, suck up the blood of Slovenian auctions. And what has all been done to make this project work? According to these parties, they were urged to finally replace Mr. Todorovic in society deleted. This was at your invitation because it is uncreditable because it harms this policy because its robots are known for what it is allowed to do and what it claims, unjustifiably and of course it happened, as instructed by the Ministry, from the coalition, they have now replaced the president of the society deleted. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, what is all about this policy? What's all this about, like, low-end intentions? How to humiliate this Slovenian country? And many of these categories, one of them was Mr Todorovic, who said I will not ask for any matter or for the citizenship of this country, because it is an uncivilised state. Do you still insist that Slovenia is an uncivilised country? Are you still insisting? Yes, gentlemen, it is time for you to acknowledge to the Slovenian country that this is the home of two million people who live here. Who, at the time of its establishment, took pride in being courageous enough to go to plebiscite and make a plebiscite decision. Not that a few people are now being dictated who intimidated this crowd of so - called eraseds. Many have been victims of them, and they would have clarified this and put them before the courts, which at the time spoke of a non-civilised state, how citizens from other republics should not take citizenship and status in that country, uncivilised. And you support this, you say by your conduct that Slovenia is a lousy state, that it is uncivilized, that it needs to be abolished. We will not end it and your solution will not be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u44	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Much has been said today, of course, more has been said in the past on this subject. But it's always the same thing. I listen to things and I get the feeling that I would not be in Slovenia, but in any other country where we would advocate for the rights of citizens of any other country than Slovenia. It is true that from these causes, which have also led to this law, which we are considering today, it has been almost 20 years and it is interesting that those who are still extremely loud about these events are reminded of these causal events perhaps not so much of the details because they were too young at the time, because they were not even interested in it, in this context I want to say they were too young, but today they are saying everything they hear from others, but if it is true or not, especially I think about what is not true. I basically don't support this law, but since this law is under consideration, then all that is necessary is what is possible. To improve the law are amendments. That is why I support our amendments, because I do not understand that today one thing can be handled retroactively. I've been in Parliament for a while now, and I know that you lawyers have been teaching me how something can't be handled backwards, it can't be because it goes retroactively, it can't be done. But interestingly, in this marriage, it can be retroactively backward, and for all the offspring, and all the life that can be attached to it. But today it's possible to be retroactive, but never before. If there wasn't another argument, it was back but things couldn't be settled. That's one way to go. We also heard that something was illegally taken away. Please, nothing was unlawfully taken away, because these people did not ask for it, and if they did not, they could not have, and so it was not possible to take them away, sorry, and therefore they were not deleted. And I've said it a few times in this House, and I'm going to do it today, but very quickly, so I won't waste my time. Why did I mention earlier that some of you were too young, but you didn't care? I was alone at that time 20 years ago, doing such a job that I was directly responsible for these things, and I know what happened. We have received instructions on how to inform these people that they will handle whatever is necessary. You probably know that in the time of the previous country we did not have the citizenship of the SFRY, but the sum total of the nationalities of the individual republics, of course it is true, Mrs Pečanova, and indeed, the individual republics have led citizenship and everyone born there has been granted automatic status and the citizenship of the republics has been direct and the SFRJ has indirectly been the sum total of individual nationalities of the republics. And if you don't know that, then I'm not surprised that such a marriage is an object here. And since the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia has been maintained, those who have been enrolled in this book are also automatically recognised citizenship of Slovenia of the new country, the State of the Republic of Slovenia. Those who were not enrolled had to gain this status. And the municipalities, then the big ones where the services of the current administrative units were, we got a warrant from the Republic Secretariat of Internal Affairs, that was then the Ministry, that we had to have those people that we knew about, of course, if they were reported here, we had their addresses, because otherwise they weren't, we had to inform them, we got the form and we had to tell them exactly, you have to report here, you have to sign the form, you will pay like you said today, half the euro. To prove that you live here, however, you need to bring one account, one account, either for electricity or water or for rent - and if you bring one account, you will automatically settle your status and you will have it arranged to prove that you lived here, with one account. When we tell this to people in Europe, they get their heads together. They're holding their head. I'll give you a case with Latvia. And now that you say that these people have been erased, that something has taken away from them, let me tell you [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u46	You know, I really feel a little reminded once or twice. [[...]] Please, please, debate, have a word. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. These so-called deleted were put on Šentilj in 2006 and there was no Schengen regime at the time and we still had a border in Šentil and we were in the European Union. These people stood up for Šentilj, had large banners and shared with everyone who came to Slovenia or left, foreigners, from Slovenia flyers, how we have an uncivilized relationship here with some "arase people". In Europe, "race people" means something else. These people have done this in Shentyl, they have maligned Slovenia, and that was not enough, they have gone to Brussels, and they have been accepted there, and I think the Assistant Commissioner, so one of my colleagues, the Assistant Commissioner for Refugees at the European Commission, has corrected me. And that's where they were explaining their story about the deleted. But this man wasn't so stupid and he asked them, excuse me, if I understand correctly, you had to cross your national border, well, in Shentil, how did you get to Brussels? What kind of documents did they let you go to Austria with? And they showed them some documents, and I don't know which ones. Then he said, "Sorry, gentlemen, but if you have any document, then you haven't been erased and the case has been closed." And until then, the media pump was about these people, about these heroes that are muddling Slovenia, and then the thing went quiet. Because this Assistant Commissioner has shown them that they have not been deleted. Because they had some kind of document, whatever. That doesn't make any difference to the deleted. And now let me finish slowly, because my colleagues will also say something. You know, you're talking about human rights violations. I am not saying that in those messages we sent back then in 1991 and 1992 we had to send these people three times. In the municipality where I was in Slovenske Konjica there were 312 such persons who had to be informed. In the first round, when we sent them in 1991, more than half of them came back and it was up, you won't believe - you won't believe - whether an unknown address was written or something was written up, in that very lively speech that our people, our neighbours, used, were drawn in that form. Then we sent again to those who did not prepare this status and once again, and if we had informed them three times that they were not, then we could not say that they had been deleted. No one is in violation of human rights in these, except perhaps some exceptions, which always happen when it comes to a large number. 180,000 people, they got their status, I don't know, 7000 after the data went out, or 18000 after they checked them, and they didn't get it. Then if there's 180 thousand of them and there's something wrong, then it's probably, I don't know, I don't know what to say, I can think of my own, that human rights haven't been violated. But if they're already in violation today, when you're talking so much about human rights violations, I could say that human rights also have those 100,000 people on the road today, but I'm not pointing my finger at anyone in the wrong, but I'm saying that these people also have human rights and their children, because they've been wiped out and they've been wiped out in the store because they can't go into the store because they don't have money to buy anything, and their children are also hurt. These people also have human rights in Slovenia because the courts are working abnormally for a long time, and things are getting old. Don't these people have human rights? Now we are going to reward those who didn't want to settle some things and even spit, in Slovenia, in this country, from which we would like to have, I don't know, some rights on which we would then work through courts, lawyers, lawyers' rights back, working hours, social security, and I don't know what else. What you say that this law will not cause compensation, of course, is true, but this is the basis for another law, which you will certainly accept here or will be prepared by lawyers in your own way. They can do a lot of things, because then it'll be the basis for another marriage, and this law prepares the basis for something else. Of course, I support these amendments, which say that rights can be acquired by those who have actually lived continuously in the Republic of Slovenia. Many of these people went to other republics when relations began to deteriorate in other republics, whether on an international basis or religiously, you know that after Slovenia such events also started in Croatia and elsewhere in Bosnia, not to mention. These people also went with the Yugoslav Army, which was an occupying army in Slovenia, to other republics, and there they expected what would happen to Slovenia. I can tell you that I've been experiencing various phone calls myself when they threatened to tell you what would happen to my children. That's what's been going on, believe me. And these people were also waiting for them to come back to Slovenia as winners, because the Yugoslav army will arrange here as they imagined and as it was intended; I do not know what this is all about. This just proves that these people also had other plans and Slovenia did not consider their country to be their country. Of course, today, when things are worse elsewhere, everyone would have a Slovenian passport, a black man said who would want to take a passport from a country like Slovenia. But it turns out that people want to have a passport from the Republic of Slovenia. Above all, we would have rights on which to challenge anything else. And, I'm sorry, giving someone rights now that he didn't want to settle something is a little out of context at this point in time that we're living today. When you are preparing legislation today to delete the diatrical diet and all other social rights, it is a little difficult to give it to someone who does not feel or feel like a member and who has no sense that Slovenia is his country. That's the problem. But if there has been some injustice, that can happen, and then let us arrange it in a manner appropriate to do so. That is why we also have written in our amendments, "who lived continuously in the Republic of Slovenia" and so on. Let him dress up for every single individual, not everyone in general. It's nowhere, and it's not in the law that the rights of some groups are being resolved and then everyone falls into it. That's not how it works, because it's not fair. That's not fair, and I don't know why you're resisting this so much. To conclude, however, only an example of how some other countries regulated the status in these cases was adopted into the European Union and the European Union did not say anything because it was happening at the time. I'll give you the case of Latvia. There is an even greater Russian minority than we had in this case from other Yugoslav republics. That's where these people could get the documents only if they changed their name and surname. But if they didn't do it, they didn't get it. They didn't get that! Check it out and you'll see. That's what's going on. And even more, their schools don't acknowledge them either. They don't admit it because it was a big minority and they had their school system. Therefore, two years ago they passed a law that their diplomas were valid only if they had studied in their native language, that is Latvian. That's the way it is. [[The ad in the hall.]] Yeah, I can't help it if it's the state of Latvia. Excuse me! Latvian. Latvian, I said, Mr. Anderlich, Latvian. I don't think that's funny. These are the facts. You'll admit them sooner, sooner these things will calm down. Remember the event I said in Brussels when the Assistant Commissioner found that if they had an identification document, they were not deleted. Let this be a lesson to you. I support these amendments, which make things as much as normal and appropriate today, yet injustices can be corrected if they have happened to anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u48	Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much. In the hope that I will be able to say to the end that I will not be disturbed by the coalition, to say the following, or to start from better to worse. Here's the thing to say. In public, there is the impression that the political left is fighting for the 18th, now 26 thousand of our former fellow citizens, who have been wronged terribly. The right hand, of course, is against it and uses demagogic terms. Of course not. It must be made very clear that in this whole group of so - called deletions, if we start with a positive one, there are people who have been wronged. I know a few of these myself. This group of people is one of those born before the year 46, for example, here in Slovenia, and in year 47 they were welcomed elsewhere because they entered the civil books and returned in 48 years, so I know the case personally, and they were not registered in Slovenian citizenship books or had no Slovenian citizenship. These people need to be settled, they need to be rectified. However, it must also be said that the vast majority of these people have already arranged this. But they could have been wrong in 1992. However, the fact that all of this is not what you are saying shows some other information that the colleagues have not mentioned. In Ljubljana 7 thousand invitations, ladies and gentlemen, 7 thousand invitations, come, arrange yourself in accordance with Slovenian legislation or citizenship or foreign status. 500 to 700 people responded to that invitation. This is the official information of the then city secretariat or the then city municipality of Ljubljana. Of these 500 to 700 people who responded, about half of them had settled. Everyone else either turned it down, or the letter shipments came back marked "unknown" or "traveled". Ladies and gentlemen, this is the information that, if we generalise it on Slovenia and it can, there is no problem, because everyone has done so from the point of view of invitations, it says very clearly that in the mass of 26,000 people there are a handful of those who have been wronged and a vast majority, that is 99% of what I think we can call speculators. Speculators. The fact. You don't have to nod anything. The demagogy, which has also been said in your performances so far, confirms the following: "Erased", "deposited". Here I'm looking again, on one media portal, we're back to "scrambled." That's not true, Mr. Fatty told you very clearly. Officially it was very clear, the documents that were not valid, including me, and you and them, were pierced. My passport, which was no longer valid, was pierced, as was your or your identity card when it expired. Of course, it must be made very clear that you did not admit it. That's terrible progress. Today it has already been acknowledged that this was an official destruction of documents, not of the expressions written up there. Of course, the following must be said. Problem is, I ran a delegation in Geneva in 2005. My predecessor was Mrs. Shelikh, in 1995. Nor did Shelih detect anything in Geneva; in 2005 there was no problem of so-called deletions. He wasn't there. Why? Because there was still war. And because they were down there. A large majority of them. And because they speculated and waited for what would happen. Because they didn't believe in independent Slovenia at the time. That's a fact. In 2005, he was in Geneva, because I myself led this delegation, a major problem. Of course it was because we produced it and made it in institutions of the state of Slovenia. Not to be too long, just a few more facts. Look, the new president of the so-called deleted said in one of the last shows that it was also housing under the Yazbinski Act. We know that this was related to Slovenian citizenship. We also know that the residence permit that this law allows them is a ticket, a prerequisite, one of the conditions, the most important possible for citizenship. That means what? That the president of this so-called erased society is aware of all that will result from this. That it's just one more thing to mention. On 1 April last year, the Minister here made very clear, no compensation, no speech. It's all out of date. It's all out of date. This comes from a magnetogram. "The statute of limitations has expired since the decision of the Constitutional Court." This was the first claim on which you rejected, even on this basis you rejected the interpretation. And second argument: "The supplementary decision does not serve as a basis for anything to come, because it has nothing to do with any other procedure." Fourteen days later, the court in Ptuj said, "No, the day of the decision was only the time or moment when the injured man realized that he had been wronged." Since then, out - of - date deadlines have also continued. Look, don't talk to me about some demagogy on our side, because it's much bigger on your part, but it's on the government as well. And that's the fact, that's the facts. Otherwise, to conclude, Mr President. There is something significant in this country, even after attending the National Assembly. On Friday, we talked about, say, equal or equitable regional development, about provincial legislation, and we saw that the SD has worked very hard, I must admit, and I must commend them, so Mrs Potrate and Mr Kontić, who have worked hard, and some others who have sat in the National Assembly. In fact, we talked about provincial legislation for six hours. Madam Minister, there was no Member of yours in this Chamber. Six hours! Of course, because we weren't talking about money and voters. Today we're talking about money and voters, and you have them as soldiers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u50	Since there are still wishes to discuss, I open applications. Mr. Lucky Friend has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have to say something in defense of the veterans as well. I'm not in my best health today, and I have a fever, and yet I've come to say some things. Dear Minister! When this happened, you were probably burdened with other problems, and so were you. And I believe that you are taking this part of Slovenian history differently than we were called to defend Slovenia. I, too, Mr Petan, have been threatened, at home that a lot will happen. Fortunately, those threats were nothing. I believe that you cannot admit that in Slovenia the social situation is the same as it is, and that is why we need to invent other problems. And, look, we've barely finished with homosexual rights, we've had gypsies or Roma before, we've already been wiped out today. These themes are repeated over and over again. You're not interested in social threats. Even full - time workers do not get enough in their envelope to live up to their dignity, nor do you care. You are talking to the Social Democrats about the rights that the Minister has also mentioned, the right regime to go back with a special decision. And that ethnic commitment and respect for the Constitution is the basic reason to approach it immediately. But do you know how many unconstitutional laws we have that have a negative impact on the economy, and nobody in this country cares? The social situation is an individual's right, it is a right to work, it comes from the Constitution, and nobody cares about it either. Social Democrats are thus becoming social 'demonrators' of this society, and if this continues in such a context, an electoral outcome will be appropriate. It wouldn't be right, Your Honor, if you only speculated on how you'd get 25600 votes and a few votes. And speculation here by government authorities is present. Let me tell you what was the first step; the provision of free legal aid. I am interested in which lawyers will deal with these cases and how much money will go from the state budget because you are saying that we will not take a single euro for these protections of the so-called deleted. In fact, I am also disappointed because those who were at war with Slovenia can be said to be very responsible that we have dealt very humanly with all those who have been captured or who have surrendered. I was alone in a diversionary squad, they all got civilian clothes and, of course, money for the ticket, food and were escorted to the train station. There have been no violations of the rights. Those who stayed here for the price of one bottle of beer had the opportunity, so many were these forms, to arrange citizenship according to a procedure previously explained by Petan, it is said that they have submitted one invoice that there are some taxpayers or otherwise that they have to pay for the apartment, electricity, water or television services. In short, it is irresponsible to say that some injustice has taken place here. It is also irresponsible that today we are defending some Aksentijevic, who spoke hatefully to Slovenia in this National Assembly. Mr Jelinčič is even sued by him personally and he is also a member of the so-called erased society. Has anyone stepped in our Member's defense and said, yes, this gentleman, who received the rank of general because he was hostile to Slovenia, cannot really be in this group. Is there anyone among you? We're the only ones who did it. No one in this National Assembly has the right in such a way to defend those who have been erased in such an ardent way, but to forget about their own people. All the ministers and ministers have signed in this Chamber to work for the welfare of the Slovenian people. How many of you do that? Very little. Minister, if you'll excuse me for a moment and listen to me, please. It'll be very nice if you hear a word. Arrogance is so much more visible to those who look at us. Correcting injustices: yes, but in some way. Some were also guilty. This has already been said by my President today when he had an official presentation of the Group's position. I believe that something must be done for these children born here because of bureaucratic procedures that have been conducted as they have been. Even for women left alone because men speculated and went to war, and there went the war profiteers, from time to time I came on vacation so those women could also get citizenship. However, not those who were on the other side, who were also slaughterhouses and who were sought today by international organisations. That's what they're like. To defend only the need to correct these injustices, overlooking the fact that deleted ones grow faster than mushrooms in the rain, there is also something very wrong in this area. That is why the Commission, and I hope it will show, this state-level commission, where the irregularities are, why the country suddenly recognises the 25,600 so-called deletions. We know there weren't any. And I'll tell you something else, what I know. The post office came back massively when we called those who left Slovenia, even the prides of being so-called erased, we did not call them that, first, we emptied running accounts, we made a minus on their running accounts, and then they left Slovenia and were afraid to raise official mail because they thought there was a claim coming after them. These claims will come as well. Some banks have also collapsed since then. And that's the kind of rights you're defending today. Why doesn't anyone talk about it? Dear Minister, tell me, who will pay the cost of 25,600 legal cases because we know that the first step you took was to arrange free legal protection for the so-called deleted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u52	Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u53	The question is whether after 20 years of independent states we can talk about some things rationally, but especially in the spirit of some tolerance, tolerance, recognition of some rights also to others who have not been violated by you. The fact is, Mr Gorenak, if you are speaking, there are no words in Geneva about any words deleted in Slovenia. In February of this month, the report on this standard questionnaire is a universal periodic review of the state of human rights in all 192 Member States of the United Nations. Point 47 and point 48. This February was our Minister Žbogar, three hours dealt with the issues of Slovenia, and among other things the 47th and 48th points talk about how the status of persons transferred from the permanent population records to the records of foreigners was regulated. There were many questions, so the Minister of Foreign Affairs also reported at the last meeting we had, but when all these participants heard how the matter was regulated they insisted that it was the right way to regulate things in democratic, civilized, tolerant societies, as decided by the Constitutional Court, not once, as we received recommendations from international organisations, not once, repeatedly, etc. Today, when the court, not once, decided, held nothing, decided that the deletion had been, dead coldly stated - not you, Mr Gorenak, but some others - that it had not been deleted, and this was those high officials of the then state. These countries at the time of their disappearance. You don't say any offense?Oh, my God! [[...]] Today, those in charge of managing it in the congregation claim that it has not been deleted, but at least two decisions of the Constitutional Court mean that it does not act in the spirit of what is happening in this area today, after being deleted, after the decisions of the Constitutional Court, after many debates and so forth. Here too today was a talk about how Mr Fatso claims everything that has been, but you do not quote that. Mr Debeljak also said: In 1991, when we adopted the Aliens Act, our colleague, Metka Mencin, proposed an amendment to the law that would prevent such acts. And he regretted that this amendment had not been accepted. At that time Demosova, the first government in this Republic of Slovenia, this, of course, Members, were also ministers, the same ones in the same roles, slightly refused. And six months later, what happened wasn't supposed to happen. And so here we can only oppose this - whether anyone thinks about human rights, the correction of injustices and individual treatment, seriously or not. I argue that those who can, even by firmly rejecting some of the insinuations, were also among us some who were for the thing to build a country to do and so on. Please kindly ask, after 20 years of establishing some divisions, to ask some questions - yes, for many of those who say this today, I do not know where you were, what you were doing, for many others who were supposed to be away from these aspirations, but I know where they were and I know what they were doing. No one objected to your concerns that everyone who broke before the law, who acted hostilely, wanted a bad Slovenia and so on, should do their every duty and report these people. Procedure, as everyone has to answer, even if he abandons an act of duty in the workplace and who suffers any consequences, subordinate, of course, must be responsible. No, it's not always like this with us, because you know what I'm talking about. So it would be right that after you read: Yeah, well, hell, overnight I don't know how many new ones have been erased and so on. Interpellation in the National Assembly has been proved a hundred times. Now there's an investigative commission going on, you're going to dig it all up. But I don't think you'll be able to figure out anything in the count, because it really doesn't take an investigative commission to count it, because it's considered, like mathematics -- actually counting is still in the account, not pure mathematics, because mathematics is still a little bit more. You need an investigative committee up to 25,671 to count? The goal is something else. And do not urge that it is any intention to strengthen the hordes of people, those who have so-called hatred of Slovenia, will be as friendly as possible and will not know any voters and so on. This is simply not true because you also know what permanent residence means and what rights come from this status. It's completely different. Clearly, people need additional instillation of fear. They should be warned, in this way, that this Government deviates from what is democratic, which is state-of-the-art, which is for the benefit of citizens and citizens. No, in this case we are doing what Article 1 says - that those who have suffered these consequences are being corrected. And if it is not possible to do so at this time, then the question is when will it be possible? For us, the matter is incontrovertible, and we do not accept the thesis that you repeatedly repeat. We've been intensively correcting the guilt. We have worked intensively to solve the issue of deleted. Yeah, in the end, it was also a count, obviously, questionable, but you don't need an investigative commission to do that. As it is said, from the arguments you are making in this amendment, it is simply a matter of making an accusation, both of those who are in a position to be wronged, and of those who want to correct the wrongs, to establish a state worthy of the country as Slovenia is, and even more of what it would be. This is unacceptable to us, and at least I will reject the amendment and, as I said in the introductions, to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Replica, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, you misunderstood me or on purpose, now I don't know what, so I'm obliged to explain it to you in the replica. I said in my performance, in 1995 it was like that. And I insist on that, because that's what happened. In 1995, there was no problem of so-called deletions in Geneva, this is the result of Mrs Shelihova's report. What you are quoting, however, is a document from February this year, as I said, last year's, this year's, and the situation is clear and proof of what I am saying that in 1995 so-called was not deleted that they appeared after that time. [[..]] Today, it is clear that this report can refer to the period until 1992. So, deleted, I repeat, in 1995 there were no reports of Dr. Shelikh in Geneva. I repeat, there has not been. After my previous performance, when I spoke about the presence of LDS Members, I was informed by Mr Germić that he was officially absent, Mr Gumzar said he was here. Well, please, more or less, Mr Kontic and Mrs Potrate were here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much. In general, amendments are the contribution of one or the other policy options to reforming or improving the law. And with the amendments we achieve some consensus and achieve the goal that, in a specific case, the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Citizens of Other Countries, the successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia, be adopted. The obvious fact that the amendments don't tell me what is, they're just a sign that no one reads them. Amendment to Article 1: With the proposed amendment, the successors of the SFRJ, who had been granted permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia on 23.12.1990, and who have already obtained a residence permit under the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Citizens of Other Countries, shall be granted permanent residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia, provided that they have already applied for permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia at any time prior to obtaining a residence permit. If someone convinces me that such an amendment is wrong because it follows the same objective, he sets a second date and another condition that they have already asked for permission. Article 2 - this even gives the possibility that the condition of actual continuous life is met also when a person has left the Republic of Slovenia and has stayed elsewhere, irrespective of the reason why he is absent, if the absence was not longer than six months. Even this option gives and facilitates that condition, if only for those who have been in Slovenia all the time. What's wrong with this amendment? And Article 3 is also very logical and necessary at all. The amendment shall set out the reasons why the issue of a permanent residence permit is refused to a party or person who otherwise fulfils the conditions for authorisation. However, acts which are the reason for the refusal are more serious forms of criminal offences committed against the Republic of Slovenia. What's wrong with this amendment? Can't some country get a security guard so those who commit crimes can't get one. There's nothing wrong with these amendments. And I don't understand that with such a strong desire to adopt this law, you reject these amendments. I don't understand. I completely don't understand. And that's it. Allow me two more contents. First. I didn't care when we were actually manipulating the family law all the time with the words, "you're" not "we" with the kids. Let's leave the kids alone. They're not to blame for their parents' sins. And don't wave and point at the kids. It's illegal by law. And I'm asking you the same thing, colleagues and colleagues, I've never heard it before today, not saying it to children now, but to women. Be at least that fair. It is logical for everyone that the child born in 1993 was not an aggressor. And you keep stressing that. But as a father and a husband of a wife, I would do anything to correct injustice in a year or two and make sure that my son was a citizen of the country where I live. For my son to get his status, I'd take care of it because I'm a good father and I'm a good husband. Don't talk to me about kids, because it's okay for parents to live the way they do, and they don't care about their own children. Now don't make excuses to them. All the way to the end. It's an 18-year-old story we're talking about today. Since these 18 years, it has been about a similar coalition in power for 10 years, only that then the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia was stronger than the Social Democrats. What you have done in this area in particular in these ten years to avoid talking today after 18 years. You had the chance for 10 years. What did you do? Nothing.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Probably 18 years is a really long time, so long that some probably forget what the coalition was like when it was deleted from the permanent population register. But 18 years is a time when they say a child matures and forms some knowledge. During these years, in the National Assembly, it has happened to me over and over again that some of the knowledge, some of it has not changed, but the characteristic of the debate on the deleted is that on their problem and on the injustice that has been done to them, there are still current political themes. I'm not going to say that some people are telling the truth, but I'm going to say that some people are lying because they're knowingly faking things. And how can I be convinced of my own rightful people who claim that we are cutting off the warm food? How can I be persuaded by people who claim to abolish all other social rights? It's pure demagogy and a lie. It's different. It doesn't shut down. It remains the same in the same financial framework as it was after the envisaged draft laws. Sad to say, this is how we try to arouse our domestic feelings. When can these ones be aroused? That's when we're proud of the country we live in. It is not proud of me that the state of Slovenia is not able to resolve in these long years the matters which it has handled incorrectly at that time. Did anyone among you yesterday listen to Slovenia 1 and testify about what was going on? How could anyone, even because he was in the hospital, and he couldn't handle things, lose the possibility of getting a status quo? How officials received dispatches and went to education, how they should act when someone turns to them with certain requirements. Therefore, I cannot support this first amendment, which speaks of the possibility of obtaining permanent residence status returned only to those who can prove that they have applied for status or citizenship. I think that the basis of civic education is also to separate between citizenship, permanent residence and temporary residence. And the democratic standard is that it is allowed for every individual to decide whether to live as a citizen in a country or to live only with permanent residence in a country. But he can only be satisfied with temporary residence in this country. And that's why permanent residence is a category called fundamental human rights. And for me, the violation that happened to these people, 25,671, after the last count, is the worst possible violation because they were taken from their permanent residence. And now it's impossible to judge things from the point of view of 170,000, I'm talking about a round number, I'm talking about citizenship, and this 25,671 didn't work out. It must be based on what options, what rights are given to a person and what comes out of the individual status. To talk about when the 9 decisions of the Constitutional Court in relation to the deletion from the register of permanent residence, that this is a larifari, forgive me, but it is very little for hair. And if those who have been erased by nationality have the right to say in their mother tongue what has happened to them, and that they have destroyed their documents, that through this document is written down ". I don't see any problem in this. And no one claims it was a brand. It is a feeling that is felt most deeply on an intimate level and so named. I cannot agree to say that the proposed amendments are a contribution to the improvement of the law. What if they are, after all, clear evidence of how they wish to circumvent the Constitutional Court's decision? However, to say that the proposed law, in the form it is, does not deny the right to obtain status to those who have been or have been proven to have been convicted, but forgive it, it is necessary to read the law to see that it is also written in this bill. Therefore, I will support the law in the form before us in the complementary form, and I hope that we will bring this disgrace out of the country of Slovenia once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The word is "Miran Potch." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The proposed law will have, in my firm opinion, its content, as well, only one significant consequence. He will find that the people who were transferred from the permanent residence register on 26 February to so-called dead records - that this act was illegal and that they are under certain conditions, this is that they had to stay here, should not have committed a crime and so on - can have permanent residence in our country from then on. And that's all. And the questions you're asking about this fact are related to the ignorance of things or the belief that Demos' power couldn't have been wronged that I wouldn't say anything more. And I think that any authority can be wronged and that this is to this Demosian authority and to the Members of the then Demos majority assembly, there was still a congregation that would not have someone tell me anything, simply informed that it was right for them to make such a decision. And I don't understand that, I don't know how many times we have to talk about the same things. As we understand the facts differently, I would like to describe not to my experience, but to say that it is perfectly correct in terms of the magnetogram that I have read at least twice more, the discussions that Mr Šter and Mr Fatak had at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Internal Policy. Mr Štrk spoke exclusively about the circumstances in which decisions were made. And I'm not basically challenging them. And he was talking about the conditions for obtaining citizenship. In one word, he didn't mention strangers and eraseds. As for the possibility of obtaining citizenship, he claimed that the international community had praised our law. I know. I agree. I feel the same way. The more democratic the law could not have been, because it was only on the basis of the application with the condition of permanent residence and the expressed will that it was the wish of the affected country that the citizenship of the new Slovenian State was obtained. Simpler conditions are almost impossible. If I'd found them, I probably wouldn't have found them. Mr. Stern spoke only of citizenship. The fact that citizenship is being reintroduced in a particular work today only shows that the fundamental issue is to be blurred. The issue deleted with citizenship is not linked in one single point, except in time for the simultaneous decision of the law on citizenship and the law on foreigners. With regard to Mr Fatty, who, in my opinion, was very sincere, very hurt, very sincere. I personally read nothing to him, including to anyone else, except a policy that was consciously able to do so, and this should be studied more carefully. Mr Debelak made it clear that the transfer from the permanent residence record to the so-called dead record was carried out. And that's what we've been saying all along. But it lost these approximately 25,000 of the right to permanent residence that they already had. As a result, they had certain documents, and hence they also had certain rights that were not specifically linked to citizenship. The right to vote was certainly linked to citizenship, the certificates were bound, the housing law was bound, and some material things they gave up, but they decided to stay foreigners with permanent residence. For this reason, to speak of the fact that this was not done, that it was not deleted or copied, but that in fact they were deleted from the residence records and transferred to another record which was dead and not used. There were no people who had any status in our new country, no citizenship, no permanent or temporary residence. They were people with no status. What was, not literally, based on a quote, but a meaningful understanding of this debate? That they have indeed been destroyed in a special way, by piercing, but also by other means, the documents that these people of Slovenia had from Slovenia. It is said that Slovenian passport, Slovenian ID card, medical certificate, driving licence issued by Slovenian state authorities before that date, even during the time of the former common country. These documents were destroyed. Mr. Fatty said by piercing, there's another way. He just undisputedly said they were destroyed. They were not destroyed in this way, Mr Gorenak, as your passport, which was probably destroyed when it expired, but was destroyed by the date 26 February 1992 for the adoption of the law on foreigners, the way it was implemented and the instructions issued by the State authorities of the Ministry of Home Affairs for the implementation of this law. So to say that they were informed is not true. They were invited, but they were invited to destroy their documents. Anyone who has come there has been destroyed by the document - that is also what Mr Debelak said - and was sent to a department that talks about foreigners to start acquiring foreign status. And these are some facts that are right to say. And these are the reasons why the Constitutional Court has already said many times, but let us address this problem, which will not mean anything else, no injustice, no new rights, no special matters, no compensation, will allow someone to be recognised as unlawfully deprived of their status by the State on 26 February. That is why we also propose to support this law and therefore do not support the amendments. The amendments are not in the direction of improving the text, but in the direction of the text already found by the Constitutional Court to be unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I was very pleased with your performance, Mr Potts, because you started using terms, in some way I consider myself an author, and they were transferred. But then what you said is not true. Look, it's not really what you say after 26. 2. They were invited to have their documents pierced. That's not true. The truth is different. All calls in the Slovenian space, including Ljubljana, which I quoted earlier, were made before 26. 2. 1992. And the calls were, "Come and arrange either citizenship or foreign status." That's the truth. Come and arrange for citizenship or foreign status. Well, you're gonna have to work something out because you don't have a set-up today. That was the call. Because you're up to 26. 2. these approximately 26 thousand did not regulate the status - I explained earlier why I claim to have speculated, most of them - so they appeared after 26. 2. 1992 in administrative units or in the then congregations and then no one invited them to come and edit the documents, but when they arrived when they realized that the move was wrong, they did not settle the status when they arrived after 26. 2. Until 1995, they were told, "No, but you have no status, this document is no longer valid". That's the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Croat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In the beginning, I have to say that there is not really any big difference between us sitting here in the National Assembly. There's no big difference. The fact is that the draft law you are proposing lays down the conditions under which a foreigner who was on the 25th day may be allowed. 6. 1991 The citizen of the other Republic of the former SFRJ, who has not yet obtained a residence permit in the Republic of Slovenia under the provisions of the Foreign Act, has been granted a permanent residence permit. What do we suggest? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are proposing an amendment that only specifies in its content that those who have lived continuously in Slovenia get it and that we eliminate speculators and those who have committed aggression against Slovenia. And that's all. Only here is the difference. And here I think that one thought is needed, especially in the types of coalition or our amendment is really so dangerous for a particular group of people that it is not possible to support it. I don't think it's that simple. Look, we agree, everyone, that it is absolutely necessary to correct the injustices of all those who have occurred. But we're talking about guilt, but we're not talking about speculation. And here's the fundamental difference between you and us. There's been a lot of talk about individual treatment. Also at the first hearing we had in the commission, where former Minister Bohinc spoke about individual treatment, that everything was dealt with individually. Do you know what individual treatment means to me? For me, the individual considers the response of that particular person, why he did not settle this status. This is an individual consideration to explain why he did not arrange it in the way that it was necessary at the time. I think this is where we need to unify ourselves. Earlier, Mr Potz explained in a way how things were going when this legislation was adopted. The fact is, I am now a little bit deeper into all this legislation from those times, and it is a fact that bilateral agreements between Slovenia and the countries of the former Yugoslavia have been envisaged. That's a fact. This law, which was adopted at the time, was absolutely not bad. Of course, the situation in the Balkans has led to a major upheaval in order to regulate the status in Slovenia. And we all know that that's true. Over 170,000 people have settled their citizenship. Approximately 30,000 have settled the status of a foreigner with a permanent residence. All of this was based on the individual decision of each individual. However, that he was then granted citizenship by the person concerned, there were only two conditions: that he lived in Slovenia and that he applied for citizenship. And that was all that had to be done. And there's been multiple reports that they can sort this out. I don't agree that it was flat-rately violated by all those numbers that appear today. A few years ago, the number 18 thousand 305 was now up to 25 thousand 671 so-called deleted. I don't believe this number. I just don't believe it. We'll get the results, I'm sure, on the investigative committee. The first witness, Dr. Bohinc, said that this number 25 000 671 did not believe and that it seemed excessive. He doesn't believe it. We're gonna have to pour some clean wine here, who's right. He claims that the decisions issued on the basis of this figure were correct at the time. Now we're talking about a number that's 7,000 people higher. It is also very interesting that in order to comply with the Constitutional Court decision 7,153 supplementary decisions should be issued. That's right. But see what is covered by these decisions: 125 persons born after 26.2.1992, 256 persons who did not have a registered permanent residence at all, 111 persons were not citizens of the former Republic of Slovenia. That means 492 people, which translates into 7%. Listen, 7% of the number of completed decisions originally made! What does that mean? That all these 492 persons have been given decisions and are now shown not to have been entitled to these decisions. Look, that's the point of the investigative commission we're talking about. And Mr Bohinc also said that he simply did not believe this information because his employees did everything right back then. But we got this document from the Ministry of the Interior. And these are the numbers and these are the facts. That is why I propose that you support this amendment because we do not violate any human rights, but we simply exclude those who speculated at the time and did not settle matters as they could. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The word is "Silven Tiny."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State! The Basic Constitutional Charter stated that citizens of other republics of the former Yugoslavia with permanent residence in Slovenia have the right to Slovenian citizenship under article 40 of the Nationality Act of the Republic of Slovenia. The procedure was very simple and under this law 170,000 inhabitants acquired Slovenian citizenship by 26 February 1992. And who was involved? For those who sensed belonging to their own nation and the Republic of which they were from. They were at the crossroads of what to do, but it was only their personal decision. It is not possible to tell Slovenia that it has not been taken care of and ensured that everyone could not obtain the relevant documents, as is now evident from the deleted documents. It is therefore right to recall the beginnings after the independence of Slovenia. Slovenia was the first to save citizenship in a unique way in terms of success on the basis of domestic law, which is entirely in line with international law, and this was confirmed in 1996 and no one denied it. Relations between the new countries have deteriorated and are also complicated, as the legislation adopted in December 1991 and February 1992 has substantially changed the situation. Within a certain marriage period, 170 thousand individuals acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, about 30,000 people gained the status of a foreigner, with permanent or temporary residence, all by voluntary decision. The condition for obtaining citizenship was very simple. He had to be in Slovenia and apply for citizenship at the time. The status of a foreigner was granted to one who did not want citizenship but chose a less permanent status, and he chose another environment for the centre of life interests, which he also had to play a role in. The new status in the newly created country has regulated more than 10% of the total population of the Republic of Slovenia without complications. All along, it was known how it was possible to gain one status or another. Everyone also knew for sure that this was a completely new country where the rules applied, as in all other European countries. Surely their decision was theirs, for in most cases their relationship with one or the other was decisive. It was only by conscience and belonging to the State that each individual made a decision, and religious affiliation played a decisive role. There were no guarantees for a better tomorrow. As events unfolded, individuals’ decisions turned out to be either good or wrong. Of course, time has shown its value. Existing problems in many cases have forced people to reconsider where and how they will live and try to change their original decision. However, there must have been new conditions in the decision-making process, which is all the more so than simple. In this case, it is Serbian officers who were threatened with active participation in the battlefields of the former Yugoslavia or the regulation of the status of residence in the newly created country of Slovenia. In 1993 the Council of Europe experts considered that the legislation was in line with all the then established standards for the regulation of status and citizenship in cases of succession of countries. The same applies to the Commission of Human Rights at the United Nations in Geneva, which, following its consideration of the 1995 report, found compliance with all necessary laws and standards without commenting on the presence of representatives of other successor countries. All of this was confirmed by the UN Committee on Legal Affairs. The management of the administrative authorities in these matters has been lawful all the time. It is thus unfair to speak of any irregularities by the State and its authorities. However, the cycle of stories that have been repeating for years has produced a policy in Slovenian public space, which will also have to be held accountable by those who have always believed that legislation that is valid and must be implemented is a rule that is applicable and must not be amended again over the years. The laws went smoothly through the parliamentary procedure, both in the field of travel documents, state border control, the Foreign Act and the Citizenship Act. So there was no doubt about any irregularity. Days 26. 6. In 1991 the population register was run by the entire population, including the citizens of Yugoslavia, which later, of course, separated from the citizens of Slovenia and foreigners. No one was deleted but transferred to another register because it was easy for foreigners without election rights. It was a transparent record which indicated that persons who are not citizens of the Republic of Slovenia could not be in the Register of Permanent Populations. The personal file was excreted in a special file, for the purposes of foreign records. Here, however, the sending process began to invite people who were found not to have settled their status and entered into force with 26. 2. 1992 provisions of the Aliens Act. Invitations were sent to all major administrative units. There was no need for smaller ones, since they knew each other more or less and the information was complete and there were no deviations. The problems were in major places where people did not respond to invitations, such as Jesenice, where 1,600 invitations were sent and only 60 responded, and Séžana, where 200 of the 400 customs officers left Slovenia. This is when people decide to belong to their own nation and country. All those who did not arrange the documents for a new one, the old documents which were issued in Slovenia during the time of the common country, have been squandered because they were no longer valid. But it was possible to obtain a new document immediately or a certificate if they wanted to. It is clear from all this that the State of Slovenia has taken care of anyone who wanted to become a citizen or to obtain residence status. It is unfair to see why there was no automaticity in the transfer, because it is only a little too much for the rule of law to impose on someone. So it would be right for those who decide on constitutionality to pause the procedure a little before they decide. And they write down that which the people desired, and it was also written in the law. I support the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I cannot support the amendments simply because they ignore the Constitutional Court's decision. For the law solves matters in exactly the way the Constitutional Court requires. The Constitutional Court is one of the highest institutions in our country and I respect it, so whether it is right or wrong is pointless to discuss it. To talk about the fact that the amendments and the solutions in marriage have no difference, but it is unworthy. Unworthy because the amendments want exactly what one of the discussers said: "Exclusion those who have never been proven to them." In fact, speculators, fighters against self-indulgence, criminals, I don't know what else. Of course, because there is no name because there is no evidence that no one has been convicted, it is necessary to generalize it to the bottom and thus create it in public, the belief that these people will be given certain rights that do not belong to them and that they have not been violated. The problem is that the law cannot correct the consequences of annihilation, which were terrible for those, but the law will only restore the right to a permanent residence that was unlawfully taken from them. Of course, in a way that can happen, which means that someone has decided to do so in their own way, beyond the law. And to oppose all of this, as required by the Constitutional Court, also by the regulations, is for me the lack of respect for the rule of law and the denial of the institution of the Constitutional Court and the decision issued by this Constitutional Court. I also have to say that someone was talking about the rules that were supposed to apply at the time and that everyone was supposed to follow them. That's the problem. All followed the rules in force at the time. And those who were erased did not violate them. They have been violated by those who have been transferred from one list to another and thus have been deprived of their fundamental human rights - to this day. And it's unfortunate that we have people in this room who don't want to be saved. In fact, this erasure has made Slovenia a disgrace, not what it wants to do today, in order to wash this disgrace, to improve Slovenia's reputation for the right treatment of people deprived of human rights. And in this respect, support must be given to this law, which does not have a "tatla", as it is called, if we are to read a decision of the Constitutional Court. However, we can find serious problems in the amendments that are proposed and unacceptable because they are obsessive in the sense that they sound like something is going to be done, but in fact they have a completely opposite and negative purpose. If we supported these amendments, we would remain a stain on Slovenia, we would not erase it because things would continue to be complicated. Therefore, these amendments cannot be supported. I will uphold a law that has the best purpose. And it's about time we accepted him after all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Anton Kolaric has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Today, one of the editorials mentioned that today is a special day because we are adopting a special law. Personally, I think that's true. A special law, but unfortunately after seven years, has been issued since the decision of the Constitutional Court, which ordered the National Assembly to settle the matter in order to settle the permanent residence of the deleted. Today, it has also been said that the content of the law and the SDS amendment are very close. If they are so close, then I call on my opposition colleagues to support the law as it has been proposed, especially because today it has already been mentioned that, I could say, it has approached the amendments a little with its left hand. Why do I say that? If you read the amendments very carefully, you will easily find that these amendments were once a constitutional law. For example, one of the provisions of Article 1c, where in the last part it is precisely that procedures are regulated in accordance with the provisions of this constitutional law, is that the applicants have not worked so hard to hide it. And that they forgot to disappear there, it also appears in an explanation, where they are saying once again that things are aligned with the proposed constitutional law. That's why we can't support these amendments. And I think it's time after 18 years to stop responding only emotionally, to try to settle those things that our colleagues in these benches were slightly different 18 years ago and had very serious consequences for a lot of people living in Slovenia. I therefore call on everyone to reject the amendments and support the basic text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you. The word is Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would only look at this, let's say, an international legal aspect of this problem, because some things have already been said here today, but they do not fully hold or I cannot see anything in these presentations here today, the purpose of awareness of the public when it is said that the problem in international institutions, which in some way care about respect for human rights in the Member States, has not been noticed and that this problem has not been found. That's not true. The Council of Europe has already pointed out in several reports that this problem has been deleted in Slovenia, especially in the reports of the Council of Europe Commissioner for Human Rights several times. And Slovenia, in the Council of Europe, must always answer these questions, which are, believe me, very unfavourable, when it comes to addressing these reports. And it is not pleasant to answer these questions, knowing that this problem is not, in fact, solved in us, and that all means are being used in this regard, so that this problem is not resolved, such as the direct disregard of the Constitutional Court's decisions on this issue, and not least the referendum, which was questionable in this regard in several respects, irrespective of the fact that some today refer to it, because it was carried out, the result was the same as it was, but the question is whether a referendum should be asked about the fundamental question, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. In the last half of 2009, Slovenia chaired the Council of Europe. We also held a special conference in the National Assembly on respect for children's rights. At that time, the Commissioner of the Council of Europe for Human Rights here specifically stressed how pleased he is that we have, however, tackled this issue in Slovenia. He mentioned this last law, which is here today at the hearing. And he then stated that he had also asked the Minister of the Interior how we were dealing with this problem. A member of the SDS Group, which is a callous warrior for respect for human rights at the time, did not object to the Council of Europe's Commissioner for Human Rights, saying that the way in which we are dealing with this problem is unacceptable, which I was very surprised by. But it has made me know that we are playing or playing a double game here and they are trying to encourage it very much, I will say, negative feelings among people in Slovenia who are under the impression of this intimidation, if, when this law is passed, we will cause everything bad for the state of Slovenia. That's all I'd say. The guilt was done. The guilt has been committed to so many people that it is simply not possible to ignore it and not to overlook it. And what must the state of Slovenia do? The State of Slovenia must do so to remedy these injustices. And if someone says that in 1995 or 1997 there was no question raised, it was deleted. Maybe not formally. In 1995 in Geneva, they addressed the question of whether international war law had been abused on the ground of the former Yugoslavia. Back then, you know, he was a special rapporteur, sir. [[..]] [[Incomprehensible.]] which also addressed Slovenia in that series of issues and said in this report that there was no problem in Slovenia. [[..]] But they were, these problems elsewhere in the former republics of the former Yugoslavia. However, we knew that this problem existed, but it had not yet been presented in a formal forum of an international organisation. Personally, as a Member, I have had some cases like this. At that time, I was an MP elected to the constituency of the Jesenits. A whole bunch of people came to me with these problems. Do you know what their problems were? That they couldn't even say, prove legally that they even exist. There was a cleaning woman in my house, a Bosniak by birth, who worked for over 30 years as a cleaning lady in one of the hotels in Kranjska Gora. She lived in a so-called single home, so she could not even have a registered permanent residence because the owner of the same single house did not allow her to apply for permanent residence in Slovenia with this title. Reva earned a pension here, got cancer and couldn't get treatment because she wasn't there. She had cancer, and she wasn't there. Please, let's be a little more human and allow the possibility that many of us have been guilty. And for many, this injustice must be rectified. And what he previously said and mentioned was that, in February, a special working group was held in Geneva, a working group of the Human Rights Council, which adopted 97 recommendations from Slovenia, in which respects Slovenia should improve the human rights situation. Of these 97 recommendations, 12 apply, if I have just counted 11 or 12, to the problem of the elimination of injustices that have been erased. Here we can be so sure that this problem is not that those who have passed this problem on to the international organisations whose proud members we are are do not benefit, my dears. If Slovenia wants to be a rule of law, if the country wants to be founded on the protection of human rights and respect for human rights, then this needs to be regulated. These amendments, which are now under way, are, however, an exclusive example of how you want to circumvent the fundamental legal standards relating to human rights, including the decisions of the Constitutional Court. And that's all it is. That's why I'm saying I can't support these amendments. However, I appeal to some of our dignity, yet we will realize that the injustices that have been caused must be rectified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The word is Brado Bakan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u75	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that to mix the fight for equality between women in society by adopting a law that finally corrects the injustices committed by people in 1992 and 1991 by adopting a law on foreigners, I think that the least that is, in fact, demagoguen is corrupt. I think that one thing and another thing, after 100 years of celebration on March 8th or then March 19th, and today March 8th, can in some way approach one another, because the traditional centuries and centuries of injustice to one part of humanity were then committed, and this date has been set as a date for women to recognize the right to equality. But that this has anything to do with love for the country, patriotism, etc., is simply perversion and corruption. To the amendments tabled by gentlemen and ladies in the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, I would like to join those who say that these amendments are mere misappropriation and would pass, one would say, the decisions of the Constitutional Court. I would like to say that when we look at the law that caused this right or the law that caused the injustice to the citizens, here a colleague who claims that we were not citizens of the SFRJ, because we were only citizens of the former Yugoslavia, does not. We were first citizens of the SFRJ and then citizens of our republics, if we entered the citizens' book of our Republic. Many SFRJ citizens who lived in Slovenia, worked in Slovenia for decades and decades, did not go home to enroll in the National Book of Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro, but were only citizens of SFRJ. When they did not apply for citizenship of Slovenia, because they considered that Montenegrins were Serbs, that they were Croats and felt belonging to their new country, we can say, and decided that they would be offered citizenship or, I will say, citizenship that they could acquire, given that they had lived in Slovenia for decades and decades, that they had not decided on it, I do not know why we call it speculation. What kind of speculation? It is said that if someone who is Slovenian and has worked in Germany for 30 years and has not decided to take over German citizenship, even though it was given him an opportunity, he remained Slovenian that he is a speculator for the Germans. In what way? If, at the time of the adoption of the Foreigners Act in 1991, instead of writing in Article 81, "that for citizens of the SFRJ who are citizens of the SFRJ who are citizens of the SFRJ who are citizens of the SFRJ who do not apply for citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia within the period referred to in the preceding paragraph or have been issued a negative decision, the provisions of this Act shall enter into force two months after the expiry of the period within which they could apply for citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia or from the issue of a final decision." [[..]] If it were written here that these people would automatically be granted a permanent residence or leave a permanent residence, as they did, by not being citizens, the matter would be perfectly normal. We've complicated things to the unrecognizable. Many people did not know about this, even though they were told that they should contact the congregation to arrange things there. Many of them were not present during those days, I know about the people who were in the hospital, I know about the people who did not enter their quasi-state at all, because they were born on those sides of the border, on Croatian territory, but since their birth they have not lived one day in Croatia, the children were 100% Slovenian couple, husband and wife, I stress, according to the debate last week it is probably necessary to stress this, the father of this man was the mayor in Hrpelje in Kozina. At that time, there was the congregation of Hrpelje Kozina, and later they joined together. The mayor was in Slovenia and the boy was born on the other side of the border. And because of this he was not a citizen of Slovenia, because this was the decision of some officials who received instructions from the republican centre. They were the ones who said at a meeting that it was not good to automatically grant permanent residence to these people on official duty, because this state of Slovenia would cost too much because if these people became unemployed, they would receive unemployment compensation because they would have to drive the procedure for forgiveness in the same way as the citizens of Slovenia and so on and so on. Fortunately, today, yesterday, the day before yesterday, we could also hear that the documents had proved how the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, at that time or the Executive Council, had decided why and why it had so decided on the law on foreigners and the recognition of permanent residence. Today you hope to say that we must not give these people the right to a permanent residence from the first day that their permanent residence was taken away. These people were actually without everything. Since they were not citizens, let us say, like in this case, Croatia [[...]] [[What is it? Will you still talk?! Okay, I'll stop.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u76	Please, Mrs. Pechanova, thank you very much. I think Janez Janša has the word. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. If you adopt a law without the proposed amendments, it will be one of the most absurd acts adopted by the Slovenian Parliament since its independence. It is also right that the status of those who have failed to settle this status should be reversed. It is absurd, however, that the status is governed by those who did not want to settle it. And that's what you're doing today. In the same basket you throw the poor muscle with cancer from Kranjska Gora and the generals of the Yugoslav Army, who are responsible for the deaths in aggression against Slovenia. About the fact that Slovenia wiped out some 10,000 people, the first spoke in 2003 by the well-known president of the self-appointed society, and some generals, such as General Aksentijevic, attached it to it. This one was talking about 30,000 wiped out. This statement was made in March 2003 by former President Kučan, who said: "Well, the number is fictional, but it is not the first thing Aksentijevic invented. As far as I know, this is about 4 thousand people who are not known whether they are still in Slovenia or who have left Slovenia. What seems to me or to me to be least admissible is that if anyone with the pressures of those people who might not really have been able to regulate their status, he is now politically manipulating even the claims that there was an ethical cleansing in Slovenia." That's exactly what the government coalition is doing right now. After seven years, the government coalition invented a number that was close to the number that Aksentijevic spoke of in 2003, and former President Kučan said that it was fictional and that it was probably up to 4,000 people. In short, you are doing something to the detriment of fundamental justice and also to the detriment of the welfare of Slovenia and all its citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much. In fact, I am grateful that I am young enough to have not been personally involved in events 18 years ago. And what's good about it is that quoting this or that, 96, 70, or how many years old a member of a former party partner doesn't touch me, because I wasn't a member of any of these parties, and the words of the older gentlemen sit a little less in my head, maybe a little more stomach. And I'm sure that's why I can make more rational decisions about things that I have to decide about. Of course, it can be argued, as has been said today for this central speaker, that there has not been an erasion, as there are people today who claim that the Holocaust has not been. These claims are possible and, of course, not true. And it will hold that Slovenia has been commended in international institutions if it has compared itself with the Baltic countries with regard to the regulation of citizenship. Certainly, however, we cannot say this about regulating a permanent residence. And I think that this important difference is forgotten on purpose even in today's debate. At the time of its independence, the emerging state promised to all those residing in its territory that their rights would not be reduced because of this new fact, due to the new statehood. And that's what happened. But not in the way that was misunderstood here today, as if it were some collective rights. Comrade Petan spoke about the collective rights of a group. In this case, it was indeed a collective violation of individual rights, which can be rectified on a case-by-case basis on the basis of a proposal, a request, an application. My colleague Horvat has his own view of individual treatment, why would someone back then explain why he had not settled his status before, even though today we were able to hear from our colleague Pečanavo's discussion that, in fact, these people did not have to reassert this status. The Constitutional Court has, of course, confirmed this claim in its numerous judgments. In short, in some ways the State of Slovenia, although it has a presumption of innocence in its constitution, first predicted that people were guilty and later had to obtain these status back individually under the famous 40th Article of the Aliens Act. I am sure that, in the case of the law we are now adopting, it is not a matter of any destruction of the state, as my colleague Jerovšek has pointed out. If anything, the destruction of the State of denial of decisions by the Constitutional Court and, of course, the defiance of the submission of amendments, such as those before us who wish to circumvent these decisions, are the explicit decisions of the Constitutional Court. Of course, I find it difficult to agree that this is an absurd act of any kind, but I agree that it was an absurd act that we are changing today. They had then delegates and delegates, or I do not know whether Members and Members had already been able to accept Mrs Metka Melicin's amendment, which would have been avoided. Even then, the Demos government, for which some colleagues, my colleague Potrč, also assume that it was possible to make mistakes, did not oppose this amendment. It was not defined at the time, but it was the Members of Demos who opposed it. Today's Members, I hope that we will not make these mistakes in the majority, so that we can see the truth and just correct the injustices in return. Of course, I'll remember my own personal case. My two sons have the opportunity to accept Dutch citizenship through their mother, which would ultimately not make any difference in Europe today for their stay here in Slovenia. As a European citizen, she would probably have all the rights they have as Slovenian. In the event that anything happens in Europe and Slovenia wishes to withdraw from the European Union or the European Union would fall apart and that there would be any further serious, economic contradictions between Slovenia and the Netherlands due to, I know, the interests of the port of Cyprus and the port of the interior, I would certainly not want the values of this country to remain as they are until the adoption of this legal supplement; that in the future they also remain in the future, so that nothing like that happens to my children as it has been for the unfortunate to be erased. I'll support the law. The amendments to the articles currently under consideration are not. I would also like to make a statement to the amendment to Article 4, although it has been largely stated in the context of this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you very much. The word is Miran Györek. One moment, Mr. Györek. Procedural, Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you. See, Mr President, not only the provisions of the Rules of Procedure itself, but also legal practice are something that should apply equally and equally to all [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u82	Procedural proposal, if I don't take your word for it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u83	The last time you're personal is when someone's just given a comparison, if it's gonna be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. I take your word for it. You're taking advantage of the procedural option because you don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u85	Mr President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u86	The word is Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u87	Good thing you made up your mind. Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would also like to make a comment on these amendments, which I consider to be reasonable, reasonable, acceptable, tolerant, hostile. I don't know why there's so much controversy about it. First of all, I am referring to Article 1, which speaks of the fact that the national of another country shall be the successor of the SFRJ on the 23rd day. 12. 1990, which has been registered for permanent residence since that date and has also been in fact continuously living, may obtain a permanent residence permit, on the basis of and under the terms of this Act. The content of the indents below is also fully relevant, as is the case for those who say that they can obtain a permanent residence permit if the application has been rejected or rejected, or the authority has not issued a permit, and they should, by law, - and some others. Thus, exceptional conditions are also observed, so that we cannot talk about exclusion. Article 2 also provides a perfectly good explanation for the actual continuous life in the Republic of Slovenia, which means that an individual in the Republic of Slovenia has a centre of life interests, which is assessed on the basis of his personal, family, social and other ties, which shows that there are real permanent links between individuals and the Republic of Slovenia. I don't see any issue with that. Such persons have in fact demonstrated their attitude towards the Republic of Slovenia or a well-founded relationship with Slovenia. In this way and under such conditions other Member States of the European Union shall also be subject, and where else, to obtain a residence permit or, if necessary, continue to be a citizen. Some even more rigorously, rigorously, not to mention - Switzerland and so on. So, what could we possibly see for ourselves that we're doing something wrong with these amendments? Each of us comes from a specific local area and knows exactly what kind of persons are being deleted. Before and after the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, many have called for demonstrations, protest meetings, to carry out anti-Slovenian propaganda, not to speak of hostility or cooperation with the occupying party; this is not officially misled anywhere. There was no persecution, no proceedings. Maybe the police have some notes, I'm just curious. Thus, in fact, these persons are today pure and can, as such, apply equally for this authorisation. There are exceptions, because I'm not saying there have been injustices, I've heard some here, but that's why such a selective approach makes sense. You have to take these cases into account. We're not saying that everything really needs to be thrown into the same basket right now. I think it's a very acceptable amendment. And I'm surprised, I don't understand what it's about again, but the Priories don't, because the opposition suggested it. And I'm not defending them, but that's not what this is about. [[Mr. Anderlich, you'll be right behind me.]] So we have different views, obviously, regardless of whether we're from the opposition or the coalition. Each Member must also have his own understanding, his own view of the matter. This isn't about hostility. This isn't about doing something wrong. It's a normal, acceptable, civilized legal order. That is to say, we cannot throw Aksentijevic into the same basket as the poor lady who, in such circumstances and in such circumstances, had cancer and could not be treated. I understand that, and I have compassion for that, and in any case, it is necessary to correct this injustice. Well, by the way, for the debate before me, it's a stampede. After that date, there were no more stamps "stamped", and they were stamped "destroyed". Does the lady still live in the SFRY, I don't know that she likes the term "deprecated". It was destroyed because it was already a Slovenian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u89	Yeah, that's exactly what this is about. There were no seals, it was worse, they had a hole, and they also physically destroyed it. You can call this a seal or whatever, it's the extreme and last chance of someone taking your documents away and destroying you, humiliating you and so on. It was said several times that in international organisations from Geneva to Strasbourg there was no problem with this issue and only after the traitors came, when the first rally, when someone self-proclaimed, said for the first time in 2003, "please, in 1999, the decision had already taken, and the second decision, and even a number of other things. I'm sorry my classmate isn't here, but why he has to quote some policies from our past, others quote some others. And, if anything, there will now be an opportunity for this responsible government, headed by a minister, to count to the Secretary of State exactly without an investigative commission, how much of this was true. Well, that's something you can figure out. Not to abuse Mr Bohintz's statements, someone here today, what did he say on the investigative committee. He said he allowed this possibility to be a second number because it was a different methodology, etc. I've been to that investigative commission myself, and it's amazing when we look at the magnetogram we're going to see what it's really about. To use so many manipulations, so many deceptions, to prove that there were some conspirators, that it was a mistreatment, that it was a matter of, say, yes, actually here might be an understanding, here was some people who wanted to share right and wrong today and it was just theirs, everything else was wrong -- that they said, "Sorry, what they were doing at the time was wrong!" And they did so within the framework of international institutions, so the Constitutional Court did so, so it is more or less clear to anyone who wants to understand it. To threaten or simply intimidate people by what is recognised as criminals, enemies, etc., then you must also say that in the current law it is indisputably stated that the Ministry can refuse to issue a permit for permanent residence if a foreigner has been convicted of a criminal offence for at least three years in prison, sentenced to prison sentences exceeding 15 years in total length and three more - then they are in the current law. A new paragraph was added, saying: "If a criminal procedure for an offence referred to in a specified indent is instituted against foreigners in the Republic of Slovenia in another country or before an international court, the procedure for granting a permanent residence permit shall be suspended until a legal decision is taken in criminal proceedings." Let's talk about things, about facts, not about general things and people, after 20 years, after all, I quoted earlier how many children there were, how many women there were. These are all your speculators, all the enemies of this country. Many died, and some of the dead could not be buried, after the birth of Slovenians, Slovenes, such as from Istria, because they could not obtain a death certificate because it was on that list at the time. We've been listening to all this, it's all public, it's clear, but you're still listening. Not that you're not friendly to others, not that you have a love for humanity and compassion for those who are at a disadvantage, who cannot help themselves, that it is not close to you, but you ask the state to treat them as inhumans, non-civilizational, immoral, unethical. How? Come with a list, if you have one, and tell me who's getting on your nerves. Tell me who you've been processing in all these years, when the Attorney General was a loyal suitor. Or later with a slight break from another prosecutor and the like. And nothing! And nothing. That's where you're talking. I really don't feel good when you say that in a foreign country she's hated because someone out there is saying that and that. But still, it can't just come about like that! There have been several talks today about various gatherings on this subject and meetings, etc. And the most supervisory could be explained by a colleague of Beblereva, who has been sitting in international institutions for many years and has learned about it and has been monitoring it. And what Mr Gorenak had previously objected to me in this document, which I cited, without mentioning anything before 2003. 26. 2. 1992 et seq. So read it all.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u90	You want a replica? You have six seconds. Very fast.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u91	Don't say it exactly. You're talking about a document that comes from this source and speaks for it back. I've been saying it's been since 1995. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Anyone else wants to discuss the amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 7 and 8? Yes, Mr. Contic. I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So that I don't run out of time, Dr. Gorenak's answer first. There was no call to regulate the status of a foreigner before 26. 2. 1992. Before that, citizenship and the status of a foreigner were regulated after they had been deleted, following the measure taken. About these amendments. There is no need to support them because this is regulated in the law. This law also stipulates that what colleague Anderlich has already said is that against those who are convicted of the acts that you are reading to them, as well as those for which the procedure is under way - Mr Grims - before the courts, the award procedure is terminated. That's how the law works. Of course, SDS intelligence is not enough. There will be something you need to do if you really want to do it. Thus these amendments are not in fact necessary. But the problem is that you don't trouble yourself with the cause of the deletion. You're troubleshooting the consequences or eliminating them, and that's the biggest problem we're facing.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Would anyone else like to discuss the amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 7 and 8? So you don't have all the time, Mr. Mag. Grimes. We're so sorry. I can't give you any time. Since he does not want or because he does not want or can no longer be discussed, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk about it? All I see is so I'm asking you to sign up. [[...]] The word is Vito Rojej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. With regard to this amendment, of course, it would be easy to say that the Constitutional Court has already made clear what you thought of its contents. In point 5 of its decision of 26 February 2004, it decided that the referendum question that beneficiaries are not persons who have not responded to the call of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia for a change from JLA or the composition of the federal authorities within a certain period of time is contrary to the Constitution. So it would be pointless to make an unconstitutional amendment to the law. At the same time, I should say that I understand that the Slovenian Presidency could have called on the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to do something and, of course, they could have decided whether or not to comply. Most have decided to take this call into account. In the law we are talking about, we are not talking about citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. We are talking about citizens of other countries, but of course we are regulating a permanent residence in Slovenia. Again, there is a fundamental misunderstanding of the issue, which is obviously not based on some understanding of civil rights and separates between permanent and temporary residence, citizenship, the right to social security of one another, but all throws into the same boiler of national frustrations. For this reason, this amendment cannot be supported. It must also be said that, on the one hand, it can be understood that the applicants of this amendment are expected to be of the citizens, and it is obvious that even from people with permanent residence in our country, some loyalty to this country is expected. Because of their alleged understatements, then the emerging countries would not even be entitled to permanent residence. We had several referendums in this country, but no one was so well visited, and at no decision was it as uniform as at the very beginning of the country, in short, the decision on its creation. Nevertheless, let's say, to all those who said in the notes that they voted wrong at the Telecommunications referendum," we do not therefore forbid to make a phone call in this country. For example, I have voted in favour of the biomedical insemination of single women, which is why I hope that if this ever happens - I must say that it does not show - that I will need some biomedical help in new births so that this country will not deny me this assistance and some such graphic cases could be found. In short, because of all of the above, and these amendments cannot be supported. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 4 of the SDS Group? Some don't, others can't, as we said, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a law on police supplements under the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word has magic. Goran Klemenčič, State Secretary, Ministry of the Interior. I'm informed the secretary wants to speak. We'll wait a minute, two if he's in the hall. He could be out there. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Because we're kind, Dr. Gorenak. [[...]] If I were somewhere else, it would go on without government representatives. But if it takes 10 seconds for her to come to the gym, we're nice and we'll wait for her. Okay? My friend Anderlich, please have peace in the hall. Ms Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u97	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The NPU National Investigation Office, as you all know, already exists and works. It was formally set up by 14. 11. 2009 when a government act amending and supplementing the act on internal organisation, job systemisation and police titles entered into force. It started to apply to NPUs with 1. 1. 2010 The NPU is a specialised criminal investigation unit at state level to detect and investigate complex crimes in the field of economic and financial crime and corruption in certain cases, as well as organised crime, crime related to new information technologies and more complex forms of classical crime, such as individual murders or robberies. At the same time, the NPU also conducts financial investigations in parallel with the criminal investigation of individual crimes with a view to identifying, tracing and securing the proceeds of crime. Since the NPU is part of the police, its investigators have the status of a criminal officer and his duties and the powers are based on the Police Act and the Criminal Procedure Act, as is the case with all other criminals. Therefore, the establishment does not require amendments to existing legislation and proposals to supplement the Police Act ensure that, from an organisational point of view, an even greater operational autonomy of the NPU and the specific position of its employees is ensured. Complements of the police law thus bring the following assurances and improvements. The selection of the Director-General of the NPU, who will be appointed by the Director-General of the Police for a period of six years with the possibility of a single reappointment, will be linked to the positive opinion of the Special Independent Professional Commission. The candidate for the Director of the NPU will also have to meet, inter alia, the criteria that, on the basis of his work, conduct or conduct so far, it may be justified to conclude that he will perform the function professionally, honestly and conscientiously and that he will safeguard the reputation, impartiality, legality and operational autonomy of the NPU. Complements of the law shall also bring a safeguard against the self-delivery of the NPU, which shall be resolved by the Director-General of the Police for reasons of breach of the duty or serious damage to the reputation, legality of operation or operational autonomy of the NPU, but only with the consent of the expert commission. The independence of the NPU or its Director in decisions the suspicion of criminal offences will take into account, the specific conditions for employment in the NPU and the functioning of the electoral commission in the selection of investigators and investigations. Flexibility in project temporary involvement of external experts in the work of the NPU. Since the NPU is an integral part of the police, it is already subject to the same supervisory mechanisms and safeguards in existing legislation against potential abuses of powers as the rest of the police. In order to verify the efficiency, transparency and indirect control, the Director of the NPU will also have to inform the Government and the competent committee of the National Assembly of the annual reports on the work of the Office. I would like to point out that the NPU is a project that has very broad professional support between the competent national institutions and authorities. The project was created within the profession on the basis of a broad professional consensus supported by recommendations from organisations such as the OECD, Europe, the Council of Europe and GRECO. The fact that only one year has passed since the first commitment that the new Ministry of the Interior leadership, together with the police and other competent national authorities, will establish institutional, human and financial conditions for sustainability, a qualitative breakthrough in the investigation of difficult economic and financial crime, and that the NPU has become operational, is likely to put it at the side of the most rapidly implemented state projects of this magnitude. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you very much. I expect you'll be waiting for me sometime if I'm late. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice discussed the bill submitted at the second meeting on 3 February 2010. The proposal was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the College decided to deal with it following a reduced procedure. Members and members of the Committee took note of the opinion of the Council of State, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the position of the Government towards the opinion of the Council of State. Mr Klemenčič, representative of the proposer, explained and presented the law, roughly in this image as we heard from the Minister. The representative of the Council of State, Mr Vnučec, presented their written opinion and expressed support for the law. The representative of the Law and Law Service Špela Macek Gustin said that some of the shortcomings they had pointed out were largely adequately addressed by the amendments tabled. Both coalition and opposition members participated in the debate. The coalition law was supported, while the opposition Members tabled some amendments, which will be discussed further, and we conditioned the adoption or support of the law by adopting amendments. The Committee then adopted amendments to the SD, Zares and DeSUS Groups and to the LDS Club of the Member States, but did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee also voted on all articles of the draft law which form an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Respectable present. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, of course, we support every effort to prosecute organised crime more effectively. We believe that the project for the establishment of the National Investigation Office has been demanding and extensive, but we hope that the operation of this Office will also be extensive and successful. However, in setting up ourselves, even given the scope and complexity of the project, we would like a little more prudence and concordance. The National Investigation Office was established practically yesterday, and today we are adopting legislation on this office in the National Assembly. It is perfectly logical to think of anyone who thinks that the office is operating today without the right legal basis. After all, you yourself wrote in the draft law that, I quote: "The proposed amendments to the law provide an adequate legal basis for the functioning of the National Investigation Office, which is an essential institutional prerequisite for the implementation of the comprehensive project of the National Investigation Office." You are therefore talking about providing an appropriate legal basis, which you want to ensure after the establishment of the office itself. Good strategy! Now let anyone object if they hope! And when we think about all the malfeasances about renting a building in which the National Investigation Office will be pleased, and when it seems only logical that we would not support such a law, we remember that the office has already been established, and that you have done everything without Parliament, alone and by your will. Therefore, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, once again, let me say that we support all efforts for long-term, professional and efficient, and in particular the operational and autonomous functioning of law enforcement and detection bodies in the field of organised crime, and that we have a very positive attitude towards all those who are genuinely and actively engaged in this persecution every day and risk their lives. We also believe that it would be fair for these people to take the Ministry a little more seriously first and then to build the office further. The initiated approach is, of course, welcome and sometimes moves things forward. However, we should be aware that the downfall is not one that brings good results to society, but perhaps only short - term benefits to certain individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u103	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, distinguished Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The main purpose of the proposed additions to the Police Act is to define more precisely the conditions for the functioning of the National Investigation Office, which is now subject to a number of political controversy, but not as a single law enforcement authority to investigate the most serious forms of economic crime, corruption and other forms of serious crime, but as a means of attacking the Ministry of the Interior in relation to the location of the functioning of this body. Some will probably discuss something completely different and not the very subject of the novel that we now have before us in this proposal. They will discuss the establishment of this body, the regularity or irregularity of hiring a building for the National Investigation Authority, but will not expect a constructive debate on the need for and the prudence of the establishment of this body, nor on the positive effects of detecting and prosecuting the most demanding forms of economic crime, public financial crime, corruption and other worst forms of crime requiring specialised knowledge. If my guess is wrong, I apologize in advance. Members of the DeSUS will agree to support the proposed law, which does not affect the existing Police Act in any way. The legal basis practically already allows the establishment of this office, it is not at all controversial. However, by amending the Police Act, a systematisation or organisational framework is established for the operation of the Office. Self-reliance and responsibility shall be defined in greater detail. For this reason, in the DeSUS Group, in support of this novel, we are not skeptical and will support it, in the hope that the activities of the authorised persons in detecting these crimes will be even more effective; they will not run out of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u105	Your Honor! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is setting up a National Investigation Office in order to restore people's trust in the rule of law. The NPU is supposed to be an independent institution pursuing the worst forms of economic crime and corruption. In order to ensure a sustainable breakthrough in the area of prosecution and investigation of the most demanding organised financial crime and corruption, operational autonomy should be ensured to the National Investigation Office. In order to be effective, the Office must be autonomous and independent, within police structures, and only responsible to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and its competent committee, not to the Director-General of the Police, who is a political function. Only in this way will criminal acts be allowed to be investigated without the influence of individual political Februarys. The proposed arrangement whereby the Director of the NPU should prepare an annual report and submit it through the Director-General of the Police to the Minister and to the Minister of Government, has a strong political foretaste. The only solution to the full independence of the Office from politics would be to submit an annual report to the National Assembly, which represents all political structures and not only ruling. The priority of research should not be directed by the Director of Police and the Ministry, but by the expert evaluation of the NPU team. If we are to ensure the effectiveness of the crime detection team, we must completely separate it from the policy and its potential impact, otherwise it is irrelevant to establish something that has already been condemned to failure. Powers should be provided to ensure successful detection and to deliver results in the subsequent trial process. In Slovenia we need to get an authority capable of detecting and preventing the spread of all kinds of crime in Slovenia, but as it is said, it must be autonomous, independent and, above all, apolitical. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the draft law on police supplements for the above reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u107	Nicely greeted! Of course, from committee to assembly, things are changing and, as my colleague said, that's politics. And yet, on the other hand, it's hard to understand this duality, that, I could say, duality. On the one hand, it requires the police, law enforcement authorities to be more effective, to detect criminal acts, all abuses and the like, and to oppose solutions that would allow for better action that would enable action in a manner comparable to other countries and that could be more effective after professional comparisons. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are aware that the security of citizens and citizens, business entities and everyone who is in any way in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia is in any interest in the first place. And security must be taken care of in an organizational manner, material, human resources and the like. This organization now makes it possible. Someone might say, no matter what color a cat is, it's important that it hunts mice. But it is not true that some things can also work beyond certain rules, some of the arrangements that this amendment of this law also brings. I'm sure you'll be able to say yes, you're way ahead of the law. You've established this body before you changed the law. But how long has the debate been going on that something has to be done, and similar proposals have been in play for the entire previous term and ideas perhaps even more in the past tense. The time has come when we can support a better solution through all professional guarantees. We certainly follow in the Liberal Democracy that the rule of law will also be more effective through the detection of organised and other crime. And it is hard to believe that those who for formal reasons do not oppose certain regulations - even better proposals in the debate were not, nor on the committee, nor in public statements of opinions - but were those proposals now contained in the law. This, in particular, enables us to organise bodies in a way that will guarantee autonomy and give them powers, provide material frameworks and the rest so that they can be effective in their work. We expect the results of the work of this office to be better than in many cases so far. That is why we have no objection to upholding the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Anton Kolarič. May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Minister, colleague, colleague. We have committed coalition partners to ensure that the conditions for the prevention and investigation of crimes in the field of economic and organised crime are improved in Slovenia. In order to achieve these objectives, it is necessary to increase the professional competence of criminal personnel in the area of investigation of these crimes. The government took this project seriously and, on the basis of broader discussions in professional circles both in Slovenia and abroad and comparative analyses, found that the Finnish model of the National Investigation Bureau could be the starting point for the preparation of a similar office in Slovenia. In autumn 2009, the Ministry of the Interior also prepared a working discussion on the planning of structural reforms in the field of police work. It was at this presentation that we, the members and members of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice were presented with a project on the establishment of the National Investigation Office. The holder of this project is the Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, Finance, Public Administration, Attorney General, the Supreme Public Prosecutor, Customs, Tax Administration and other supervisory institutions in Slovenia. The new year has therefore created a national investigative body. The new Police Act, which we are considering today and will be supported by Members and Members of the Social Democrats, establishes an institutional framework for a qualitative and sustainable leap in the field of limiting, detecting and prosecuting more difficult forms of economic, public financial crime and corruption and other forms of crime. The new law on police gives the National Investigation Office as a specialised criminal justice unit at state level in addition to the institutional legal framework. In this way, the National Investigation Office will have adequate legal autonomy in view of the complexity and complexity of the operation, as well as the specific situation of its employees. The purpose of this Office is to identify several criminal offences with the best staff from various fields of pro-active work, to file multiple high-quality indictments, and to seize several illegal property benefits. In the Group of Social Democrats, we want the National Investigation Office to establish good practices in due course and meet the expectations of those who advocate for, or prevent, financial, economic and other crime. As it is said, the Social Democrats will support the amendment of the law, but not the amendments of the SDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Now perhaps no one will have to be warned that it must be quiet in the hall because there is no such thing. As far as the proposed law is concerned [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u112	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you very much. It must be said that with the proposed law we are doing something that we have already seen in this hall. The month of October, and immediately after the current minister's term of office, she found that something would have to be arranged at the top of the police force, chose the person in advance, said in advance that this was the only candidate, the best and the most beautiful candidate, and then amended the Police Act, so that she could appoint the same candidate to the post of Director-General of the Police, who, of course, was already known, and we drove the circus into this hall to cover what she had already done. Now we're doing something similar, obviously, in this room. In fact, we are talking about the National Investigation Office, which is a fundamental change to this law, which the Minister already has, so the Minister already has the head of this office, so it was at least detected by the media, this is Mr Hari Furlan, so the media wrote. It must be said that as far as the general question is concerned, whether we need some specialized form or unit to fight organised crime or the worst forms of crime, our answer is, "Yes, we absolutely need it!" And we support her, too, but not in the form that the Minister invented, because it's the police in the police. What we have before us, in fact, is that within the general police administration or within the police, Mrs Kresalov's police will act. That's not allowed for me to justify it. The National Investigation Office will be autonomous. Why is that? The police must be autonomous, it was established in 1998 by law. The police must be autonomous and there is no need to talk about an autonomous national investigative office, but if the police have to be autonomous, if the national investigative office is an integral part of it. The law says it is, but it isn't. Why? Look. The director of the National Investigation Office, the National Investigation Office, is part of the criminal police, according to the law. However, the criminal police provide the materials for his work and the National Investigation Office is not responsible for its work to the Director of the Criminal Police and is not responsible for its work or for the Director-General of the Police. This is the first time since 1998 that we have separated a part of the police from an autonomous police force and tied it to a minister. Why? It says here in paragraph 6a. Article: "The Director of the National Investigation Office shall transmit an annual report on the work through the Director-General of the Police to the Minister." It means he's packing it up in an envelope, sending it to the Director General, and he sends it to the Secretary-General. What it reads below: "The one with the report familiar to the Government", does not write to send, but writes "the familiar government", can also use a summary, can with a half, I don't know how. No one is prepared to send it to the Government, but this one to the competent committee of the National Assembly. It means that the Head of the National Investigation Office will send a report to the Minister, but everyone behind it is the Government and the Committee of the National Assembly, and they will be "acquainted" with this matter. I'm asking you how - probably with an extract. The committee said, "We are ready to change, so it will clearly say that the National Assembly or the competent committee will be informed in order to receive the report." I don't see any amendments to be tabled. It means you're hiding and hiding. Our amendments, let me make this public, are going in the direction - and in this case we will also support the law, otherwise - that the National Investigation Office is an integral part of the criminal police, responsible to the head of the criminal police and to the general director of the police, and to no one else. There's nothing to look for here when she likes to brag when she has an awkward question, and she says, "No, no, the police are autonomous." So, he doesn't need any reports here either, he can get a police report, not just this office. More in the discussion on the other articles and the justifications below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr Tadej Slapnik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u115	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law supplementing the Police Act lays down the conditions for the operation of the National Investigation Office as an autonomous criminal investigation unit of the General Police Administration. In the Macial Investigation Office, there will be criminals, top investigators who have proven to know and be able to investigate the worst forms of financial and economic crime. With the establishment of the National Investigation Office, experts in the field of taxation, specialised investigators in the field of transactions and speculation at the time of ownership and introduction of the market economy, as well as transactions in the market economy today, will also be associated with these investigators and investigators. In the Zares Group, we expect the National Investigation Office to be effective in prosecuting those who carry out the most difficult forms of organised economic crime and, in particular, that it will be able to take and return the wrong-winning benefits to where it belongs - this is in the state budget. The establishment of a national investigative office, including the follow-up to the idea of the party Really - a new policy that needs to be made in the financial field, we then talked about the financial police, in the Republic of Slovenia provide enough investigators to make order in this area. The proposal for the establishment of the financial police was really proposed by the party in the first half of 2008, at a time when the fight against corruption and clientism was very intense in Slovenia and when we witnessed the emergence of an uncontrolled movement of assets between individuals in Slovenia and also the search for ways to act against it. At one of the extraordinary meetings of the previous Parliament, Matthew Lahovnik, on behalf of the parliamentary group, also presented an initiative to establish an independent financial police body and addressed it to the then government. Unfortunately, the initiatives followed only the principle answers in the direction "we are studying, we will also examine if, and when" and so on. Therefore, the Zares Group tabled a proposal for a law on the financial police in the parliamentary procedure in August 2008. In the Group of Members, we are indeed pleased that the Government has also taken into account the objectives and objectives of the Financial Police Bill when preparing the Bill of Supplements. We warn, however, that an autonomous and professionally competent group is only a necessary but not a sufficient condition for final success. In order for us to succeed in this area, we need to give investigators and investigators at the National Investigation Office plenty of time and at the same time they must be followed by the prosecution and the court. We are confident that in a year or two we will be able to assess that the establishment of the National Investigation Office has been a blue and, in particular, the right decision. Therefore, we will support the proposal for a law on supplementing the Police Act in the Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2010 I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the four amendments to this Article. I am opening an application for a debate on the Article and amendments to this Article. Mr. Jerovšek, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you very much. When we adopt this amendment to the Police Act, at least we hope that we are all working to ensure that crimes are effectively investigated. We must say that, in fact, the most serious crimes have not been properly dealt with or have not been dealt with successfully enough so far, it is commendable that the previous Government has finally established the criminal police in such a way that it will eventually have the staff to deal with these difficult crimes of organised crime. Of course, in this context, it is extremely important that bodies such as the criminal police or now the National Investigation Office are independent of politics. What is bad or doubtful in this bill is that it really wants to investigate such crimes, that it wants to investigate organised crime - especially economic crime, the crime of white collars - is that the National Investigation Office is practically subordinate to politics. This is bad, and this weakness of our amendment is over. See how you can ensure to the Slovenian public today, from the government coalition, that this body will be independent if both appointment and reporting depend on policy. Who today, after Baričevič and, say, even after Pogačar - regarding the building - believes that independence is guaranteed here, but when the core of the Baričevič case is precisely in that politics has influenced and done everything that should not have happened on the legal path. And even though the context is that way, you insist on such solutions. And despite the fact that when this office moved to that Pogačar glass palace, it was assured that there were no personal connections, we now have images and evidence on the table that these personal connections are extremely strong. In addition, today it comes to the day that this palace was similar to Jankovic's stadium, that workers were deprived of their dignity, that there were virtually some subcontractors, apparently, not paid here, and that this is connected to a bunch of unusual acts. How, then, can such grounds be independently investigated? You can't. And you have to admit to the Slovenian public that you are blurring that smoke clouds are being made so that they can continue fishing in mud. Such a condition should be cut off. If we are willing to give this investigative office all the resources, expertise, technical and so on, then we must ensure that it can also work independently, but not that the leverage in this case will now be Minister as long as it remains, and then also authorities, governments and so on. Let us finally make this body independent once and for all, so that it can work without the influence of politics. In the proposal you've written, it's a delusion. Here is a clear and complete policy link, or policy acquisition, over the Investigation Office. And this simply cannot be tolerated, so this law must be amended in this part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. I kind of want to continue where I ended up. As far as our Group is concerned, the adoption of amendments will be acceptable. The amendments, however, are those that maintain the autonomous police, namely, in Article 6a, the situation is clear. We already have the Police Act, which is valid for 10 years and over, which has been in force for 12 years, since 1998, where it is very clear that the police are the body in the composition responsible for their work to the Minister. And we're doing what today? The coalition's doing what? The police inside create an organisational unit called the National Investigation Office, and the criminal police can only provide material conditions for its work. The Head of the National Investigation Office is not responsible to the Director of Crime, the Criminal Police, he is not responsible to the Director of Police, I stress that this was the first time since 1998, but he is responsible to the Minister. So the minister, who is familiar with the report on the work of this service - just get to know, doesn't send, - the government or the competent working body in the National Assembly. This also means pure politicisation of the police because of the articles below. In fact, the Director of the National Investigation Office is formally appointed by the Director-General of the Police, Article 6b, and this must have the positive agreement of a commission drawn up in one way or another, as defined in this Article, but this committee is appointed, in fact, by the Minister, as stated in the law, in that way. And it will happen exactly as it did last year, or after the adoption of the previous amendment of the law, when we had one candidate for police director for the first time in history, it has never happened before, it has always been 15 and more, I always, I stress, in all governments. Last year, after a famous amendment to the Police Act, which according to the Ministry and the Minister was the most transparent and democratic, one candidate applied. Of course, it was a clear matter because it was further chosen and agreed, and the commission was the one that formally covered this matter. This law provides for the exact same situation in Article 6.b. It means that if we translate this article into human language, it is the Minister who will choose the head of the National Investigation Office. And for six years. I'm not talking about the building. Six years of resolution - yes, fine, if we lose in the elections, we'll have at least that. Is that right? But it's practically impossible to get rid of. The last paragraph states that those members of this commission must be unanimous, otherwise it is not possible to resolve. It is clear that those members will be politically attracted to the current minister and it is clear what they will choose and how they will vote - even in the event of a resolution. You're rounding the circle. One more thing. 6.c Article, set of offences dealt with by the National Investigation Office. All right, I don't have any problems there until point five: the most serious crimes, corruption, crime and so on. See what the 6th point says, however, in Slovenian: "promising involvement in the crimes of public officials and directors in the public sector". What does that mean? I don't know if you realize what that means or if you don't know what that means. Any of us sitting here can be subject to this kind of treatment. Someone writes an anonymous note and - can I borrow you, Mr Potts, very hypothetically, I have no bad intentions, but you are here, and the others I hardly see. Look, very hypothetically, I don't have any bad intentions: someone's going to make up that they saw you somewhere on the market, that you stole a kilo of salad. He's going to write an anonymous paper, and he's going to look at this office, and you're the official. I submit that in this case you would even be in a constitutionally unequal position. Why? Because this kind of crime is not a serious crime, but a milder form of crime. We must all be legally equal before the law. So, theft of a kilo of salad, whether you're an officer or not - you have to be treated by the same organ. And once again, whether you're an official or not, they have to deal with, say, the National Investigation Office. The first six points are clear. Regardless of who commits these penalties, it will be dealt with by the National Investigation Office. There's no problem with that. I don't know why I should cut down the National Bureau of Investigation for things like this. But we know what it's like to have anonymous people in this country, and we know that Kosovo's commission says most of the time that they've received an anonymous application. This anonymous application will go directly to the National Investigation Office, which will also deal with this if the slightest crime is suspected. That's not right. I think it's even unconstitutional. As far as I'm concerned, this is the situation. We have also proposed an amendment where we want to protect in some way the current police officers and criminals, who therefore have the status of a police officer, which is a condition for carrying out these tasks. Every cop, every criminal had to get a so-called police education in one way or another. Ways are more, education, courses, crime courses, etc. This is not provided for in this law for the time being. People who come from the police aren't troublesome, people who come from the outside into the recognized financial tax, etc. experts, and they will come to this office, according to my assessment, without this. Or, in other words, they're not in charge. I believe that the State Secretary's explanation will be such that it is written in another article, I believe it, I also know what article this is in, but there is no guarantee because you have already rejected the amendment on the committee that we will not go through here as well. And finally: let us now take this national investigative office to deal with these crimes, which it will deal with. They are important, except for that 6th or the last point, which, in my opinion, does not belong in there. However, ladies and gentlemen, do you think or if anyone thinks that this will not cause internal problems in the police, you are mistaken. Why? Someone who's dealing with a murder in the Running Man. It's a four-time murder that the police have been investigating for 13 years, or any other murder, or any other crime. Do you think that criminalist doesn't deserve - I'll just go by the name, or do you think that Mr Delacorda Darko, who, after many years, was, according to my data, the one who investigated the attack on this boy in Nova Gorica, with you who didn't know how many years he was in a coma and then died. Do you think a criminalist like that wouldn't have earned the salary that criminals at the National Investigation Office would have? In my opinion, yes. In short, I'm problematic so much difference that only on the basis that someone is employed in the National Investigation Office will they have practically once more pay. This is not fair to other criminals who are also investigating very difficult crimes, and that is wrong, even though we have not intervened here. Let the Ministry say what it wants to say. I think they're gonna have problems on their own anyway. Let me get this straight. Our main objective is: the National Investigation Office - yes, it also gets our support, but within the police, it is responsible to the Chief of Criminal Police, responsible to the Chief of Police and no one else. And no one but that! Report on police work as a whole should come to the National Assembly or to the government. But what it is now is more for the mask than for any content. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you. As there is still an interest in the debate, I reopen the possibility of applying for a debate on this Article and the amendments to this Article. Mr. Grill, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I think we all agree that there is a problem of corruption in Slovenia, a problem of much unexplored economic crime, which is known to exist in the public eye, but also some specific convictions, unfortunately this has not been the case in Slovenia. I therefore believe that much earlier Slovenia would need either the financial police or, last but not least, an institution as it is now established in this mandate. However, I myself assess that the path and the way it works, the choice, is not the right one. Last thing we heard today is that this team is supposed to be made up of an elite group of experts, the most successful criminals, the most successful financial knowers or anything related to the investigation of such crimes. And we have witnessed the first in the past week, at least mediaically, the failures of this institution or institution, where the bar has already announced that all investigations have been illegal, contrary to the legislation, that whatever was done there will surely fall, that even before we have experienced the international blemish so far. Is that that elite group? However, I do not wish to comment on whether this was justified or not by the lawyer's house, but I fear that if this is the first such example of good work, those who would need to be tackled by such an institution have nothing to fear. I hope that this institution will work differently. I do not think that it is enough for such an institution to devote itself and to provide the mistakenly expensive premises to be paid by taxpayers, this is not enough, nor is it enough to appoint a director in this way, because we know for sure that this will be a political and political body. If you so insist that it will be an independent body, that by no means know what criteria this person, the director of this, will be chosen, then put into law to select him in the National Assembly, but with a two-thirds majority, where the voting machine of the ruling coalition will not be able to name anyone he wants. If it were so written, then I could have more faith or more confidence that the purposes of such a appointment are correct, but I am afraid that is not the case. And also, see, there is not enough in our society, even if we have a police force or this national investigative body is still so effective, the problem is hidden in another institution, which unfortunately we do not have enough influence: I am talking about courts. Today, in the National Assembly, I had a visit to a citizen who brought me documentation of obvious violations, if not even of the crimes of one of the current ministers who committed or was responsible for these alleged crimes in recent years. And when the institution investigated them, the police were confident that, on the basis of the evidence they had, they would be convicted or that the proceedings would be brought down, but the District Attorney's Office, based on the evidence gathered, was firmly convinced that there were all elements of the criminal offence, that it had been assessed or that a judicial investigation had been carried out and that a fraction of it had been carried out, the District Court rejected that request. And we're back there. What will help us if the investigating judge, the national office or the relevant institution submits all the evidence, all the things it is if it breaks down in court? And we're probably back where we've talked a lot: about networks, about influences. Probably only one phone call or maybe two was needed at the time, and the judge or court decided that this crime, I suppose, would not be investigated. I am so afraid that in Slovenia we will not have enough time to get the crime, corruption, economic crime properly prosecuted, and even less to be convicted. Last but not least, the legislation that has been adopted since 1991, I believe that the Members who have been here in the past mandates have not even been aware of all those purposed marriage gaps or loopholes that are now referred to by expelled lawyers or acquaintances, and so are the lawsuits. Such voids, such holes, are probably more likely in our legislation than in Swiss cheese. For this reason, I fear that for some time now our society will not receive an equal and, above all, an effective treatment of all crimes, offences and crimes. This would otherwise support this office, but if it were to be established and acted in the way that colleague Vinko Gorenak had previously said, as one of the acquaintances of this department. Thus, I do not see the purpose and effectiveness of this institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you. Mr. Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Following a statement by the NPU Prime Minister, it was not established because someone would have asked the Government to do so, but the Government established it because the circumstances demanded that people's confidence in the rule of law be restored. He stressed that the NPU would pursue the worst forms of economic crime and corruption. Of course, it's all about the big costs. For the first year of operation, it will take up to 7.5 million euros. I'm sure this cost will come back if they're successful enough. Corruption, economic crime, organised crime, both in the field of illicit traffic and the production of drugs, weapons and the like, is also an area that has so far proved to be an under-covered area, which has certainly required the establishment of a National Investigation Office in which people who will have the necessary knowledge and self-confidence will be part of such a difficult area that no institution has ever controlled, of course, for various reasons. If we want the Office to work well and effectively, it must be autonomous and independent and accountable only to Parliament and the Committee. The priority of research should not be directed by the Director of Police and the Ministry, but by the assessment of the NPU team. If we are to provide an effective group to detect crime, we must completely separate them from the policy and its impact, because otherwise it is irrelevant to establish something that has already been condemned to failure. The state would only have costs and no effect. Powers should be given to ensure successful detection and to deliver results later in the trial process. However, everything must be in accordance with the legislation. I believe that the NPU is needed, but otherwise it must be apolitical and effective. I wouldn't go into trouble about why he's in charge before he was confirmed in the National Assembly. For as we know, the things that are premature usually have a political foregleam, which in this case no one certainly wants, for if so, then we know what it means in advance. So far, we have been a police state, which is controlled and controlled by all those who have certain powers, and is punishing them. I believe that it is not productive to implement the law only in order to fill state and municipal budgets at the expense of the poor. At the same time, as we can see, crime is growing in all respects. So we can ask ourselves whether all those with powers control only the honest Slovenians, but they fear mafia associations or are so corrupt that they don't see things that aren't legal. Those who produce violence, "smuggling" and everything else can't see. I know from experience that it was known about all those who broke the laws and were accompanied by them. Today, I don't believe it's any different, but corruption is getting more and more. It is increasingly said that we are a naive society, as we employ people from other republics in important positions, as is evident from the case of the Ljubljana District Court, when two employees there sold drugs and weapons and even plastic explosives and had a view in the case files, which is worrying, as it is possible that certain files will also disappear. They said that they had been employed in court strictly because they were doing crime more easily. For all this we need to get in Slovenia a body capable of detecting and preventing the spread of all kinds of crime across Slovenia, but one which will be politically independent and accountable only to the committee in Parliament. If the SDS amendment is adopted, the law will certainly receive more votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u124	Thank you. Mr. Kolaric has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much. My esteemed colleague Dr. Gorenak is absent at this time, but regardless, he has repeated three times today that there is no one on our side of the Social Democrats, so to speak. I have to find that, despite all of this, there are some of us, and that even in this good year of work in this Parliament, it has not been enough for me not to be seen. He's always saying there's no one here, and I'm not really here for air - a little joke. That's the first thing. Second. If I recall correctly, Mr President, you said we were discussing an amendment to Article 6. So far, there have been more or less discussions about all the articles, all the amendments and the general ones. But I'll try to hold on if we discuss Article 6a. Personally, I believe that the text of Article 6a in the last paragraph, which speaks of the fact that the annual report on the work of the National Investigation Office is also made known to the competent committee of the National Assembly, but I think that this is a new quality in the law and that this is the first time that the competent committee will also discuss the work - the National Assembly. In short, I personally think that we cannot support this SDS amendment because the current wording in Article 6a is significantly better and also gives us the opportunity to get acquainted with the work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you. Yes, I can also see the hands, so I am reopening the application for a debate on Article 1 and all amendments, that is to say all four articles 6a, b, c and c. Mr Chernač, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The Minister started the presentation today somehow with these words NTU, as you know, already exists and works, was formally established 14. 11. 2009 Dear colleagues and colleagues! So why are we sitting here today? Has the National Assembly become just a tool for individual ministries and governments or what is already going on and what is being agreed upon? Thus, we are no longer in need of parliamentaryism under this government. If this is how we are going to land, then I think we are going to derogate from what Slovenia is called a parliamentary democracy. In fact, we have already been drugged here because a similar case has already taken place. The minister chose who would be the director of the police, and then she came to the National Assembly and changed the law to appoint the one she had chosen earlier. All these actions strengthen public conviction that the police are increasingly politicized, that it is increasingly controlled by one political option, not only by the actions I have been talking about now and to which this change in the NPU will add only one more stone or one large rock to this path of strengthening the public's mistrust in the police and will cause this mistrust, despite the fact that it wants to do something good, to be even greater. I don't understand why you're doing this, and all of these articles, from 6a to 6a, are written in the direction of increasing police politicization. If it were the real purpose of persecuting the most serious crimes, then, through the practice and through the activities so far, these doubts in the public already would have been dispersed in a very simple way if any of the few cases that have been in the drawers for some time and in which your political passengers are involved had been involved, and this so-called NPU would have begun to investigate or at least brought one of them, who has been standing in these drawers for some time, to the first stage, that is to say, to the court. What is horrifying and which leads to the fact that this body will serve mainly political accounts, is a point that speaks of the alleged involvement in the crime of public officials and so on, of alleged involvement in the crime. This will be judged by the Director of the NPU, who is a highly political termed person, and will be in line with the signals - which he will have on the basis of what Mr Gorenak said earlier, and he has borrowed from one of the Members on your side, but I firmly believe that he will not be looking elsewhere for these cases - to draw someone into a story, to blacken him out in public, and this is it. I think that such provisions are a disgrace to a democratic state, and they distance us from what should actually unite these forces, it is said, from the discovery of real crime and from the persecution of real crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Greetings to the Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I have to say, this is a really interesting debate that has one common point. I consider this to be good, positive that we all agree that acts that are not legal and not appropriate in this country are so much needed by the National Investigation Office. That's the first fact In my ears, I still have a strong response to the performance of a zealous Member, who today advocates another, that we do not need any additional legal basis to establish a National Investigation Office for the better work of the police. This, of course, remains recorded in the magnetograms of this session and is worth reading. By doing what we are doing today, we will also improve and upgrade the legal basis that is and exists. As far as I am concerned personally, the amendment to Article 6a is not an amendment to improve the law and lead the story forward. However, I must say that there is a solid confidence in the police in this country that will be strengthened. However, I am concerned about what happens to the initial, processed cases on the following steps; what happens in the prosecution, whether we have the organisation and work of the courts and their independence so that these illegal acts experience epilogues. In last night's ommis, when the guest president of the anti-corruption commission was, I was appalled by the indications of some important matters already investigated, already proven, remained in drawers at another instance in this country, which apparently does not do its work. And that's what I'm worried about. However, I am pleased to believe in the police that the investigation of criminal offences is solid, that in the area of the most serious crimes committed by professional people, the new organisation will improve and upgrade. And anyone who desires order, respect and legality in this country will assert it and will be happy to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah, I can still see the hands and I'm opening an application for a debate. Mr. Gorenak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I am pleased, I will say, too, to me, in view of the speaker, that we are united in strengthening all possible forms of organisation in the police, which would contribute to a better investigation. I'm worried about the sequel, too, what goes away from the police, but I'm a little less worried about what's on the D.A.'s agenda. Indeed, at the prosecution's office, things in the 2008 report were relatively clear that the prosecution's work in the sense of the indictments being filed is increasing and so on. I'm more concerned about what's in court. I'm really worried about that, but I think there's a problem. As far as the proposed law is concerned, I reiterate that the law can only be supported provided that the National Investigation Office is an integral part of the criminal police and that the responsibility of this office is bound and subordinated to the Director of the Criminal Police. Nothing would be wrong if it were also for the Director-General of the Police, it could also be direct, and there is no problem. In no way is it possible to agree to police politicisation because this office and its director are not responsible for the work of the Chief of Criminal Police - I ask you very much if you read this and are not responsible for his work to the Director-General of the Police. These two represent only transmission and can only send, transmit the report to the Minister. So the minister gets a report on the table. This clearly binds responsibility to her and not to the Director-General of the Police. It is unacceptable that all this information will remain with the Minister and that she will only get to know the Government. If I were to send a report to the government, I'd understand, not get to know the government. It is even less understandable that the Committee on Internal Policy or the competent labour body is then again aware of the Government's report. So, you deny the Government the right to this report, you deny the National Assembly the right to this report, only the Minister may have it. Don't tell me - and neither can the Director General of Police nor the Chief of Crime! And don't tell me it's not police politicization - of course it is! And you are doing this for the first time since 1998, when the Slovenian police first freaked out from the minister in history and for the first time in history got their chief of police, who is now an autonomous institution within the framework of his mandate, responsible for his work to a minister or minister. And there is no reason for us to hang, as in paragraph 6a of Article 3, a fine saying called autonomous and I don't know what. Yeah, it's an autonomous police force! And you're cutting him out and tying him to politics! And that's wrong! Even worse, any crime, any suspicion of the crimes of public officials, i.e. officials, will be investigated by this office. Why is that?Oh, my God! This is unconstitutional, in my opinion. This Office should investigate offences which are tax-listed or as listed in points 1 to 6 of Article C. That's fine, but not that you're expelling officials, and as I gave the case earlier, let this office deal with them. Why is that? There's no reason for that! We will uphold the law on the condition that you support the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you. Anyone else? Yeah, I'm opening the application. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u133	Some things simply repeat themselves, even several times already explained. The committee made it clear, by the Secretary of State and those who explained the individual articles of the law, that such an interpretation as you have now presented, Mr Gorenak, was also about the possibility of selecting individual information from a report at a given instance, which is said to the Minister or Minister or the Ministry of the Interior, and that the Government, as well as the Committee, then also swore that you did not need to be informed about certain partial reports and so on, because the police or this office through the police and the Ministry of Government, the procedure goes as well as the procedure, because responsibility is distributed at different levels for various things, that it is a completely normal path. The government is the one responsible at the final stage for all institutions, for all authorities in this country, because it is the one that organizes its network if you want - it is now modern to talk about networks, networking and so on. It is she who, by law on the organisation and work of ministries, organises all the regional arrangements under the Government Act. These are then further determined by the individual laws as to how a matter must take place and finally a report or an introduction to the relevant institutions of the final acts and the final reports, including the report of the institution that you obviously trust most in this country, is the State Prosecutor's Office, so much more so because you trust the Attorney-General's attorneys-general - as I fully understand, there is no doubt - but, of course, it is also necessary to trust the other institutions to work according to their conscience, in accordance with the laws, the best that is possible and, above all, what is imposed on them. And to suggest that it is a matter of familiarity, not of something, but of a report on individual matters, is not correct. You have been explained on the Committee that this means that it is only a technical path, because it would also be unacceptable to go past the Ministry, through the authorities which are in charge in this area, if you want to do what is directly to the Government or even better, perhaps some others have said that it would be most appropriate for the Internal Policy Committee to get directly acquainted with these reports, with some things. That would be wrong! This would be marred by the division of power. The executive power with all its powers has these things clearly prescribed and even in some way is insincere, I will not say anything else when you say that if you accept our amendment and only our amendment, then we will support the law, because we all support this law to be settled, and we all believe that law enforcement authorities and the National Investigation Office will work best, even as it is now composed, however you say that it does not have all the powers yet, because the law is not changed, but it will be more or less done, because you have more practice than I do. I'm trying to figure out what's going on and what would be good. That's what my conscience tells me, so that the numbers in exposed crime can be as successful as possible in all the websites that are emerging by detecting and thus preventing future similar cases. It would therefore be better to say, however, whether we are going in the direction where we are improving, we are upgrading certain arrangements in this area. This has been said a number of times. And you have also contributed to the discussions over the past four, five years quite a lot - at least that's what I was told. In fact, you have been dealing with these issues for 20, 30 years, and you have also come to some conclusions on what would be good for these authorities, what would enable them to do better, etc. I've heard from you, too, that these are the right moves, the right approaches. And now you don't like this minister seeing anything because she's responsible because she's in charge of these things. This is a matter of, I will say unreasonableness, because here we are just talking about institutions and institutions being led by people, and if you want, from the National Investigation Office to the police to the Ministry, the government and also the Internal Policy Committee. You're not gonna believe this. The Committee on Internal Policy, which you are currently chairing and which is more or less, except when you are not going a little bit on your own, is also dealing with difficult issues, and it seems to me that we will get used to each other sooner or later, and we will also be able to work successfully within the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak, you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u135	Thank you very much. That's the problem, Mr. Anderlich. That's the problem. We do not need a section in the Government called the National Investigation Office, which will go past the Director-General of the Police to the Minister. We need, if we need, then we need a report. [[..]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Police and let's have that. [[..]] That's one. And the government and us. Just like we have prosecutors, lawyers, etc. What is problematic - and because time is running out, is that you cannot take part of the police to the Director-General of Police and give it to the Minister. You can't. The Minister sees more than it should in the existing system anyway. The case is those dogs, because they've been informed before the D.A.'s. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you. Since there's still a desire to discuss it, I'm opening an application. Mr. Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. I did not intend to discuss at this point, but when I listen to a discussion by a former cabinet official from the President of the Government and earlier in the Ministry of the Interior, I am a little concerned, especially because this discussion or the arguments it mentions are quite pervasive. In fact, I was particularly struck by what he said was that after 1998, the change in this law did not increase the politicisation of the police as it is now. Dear colleagues and colleagues, for the sake of the public: such politicisation of the police as it was in the previous term, I do not think it has been until now since 1990, but not today. I'm just gonna ask if anyone remembers who the director of the police was in the previous term. In fact, the Director of Police and the Minister of the Interior were the same person, who today is also an expert member of the SDS Group. Nor did the Director of Police's statements have an opportunity to make them public. I'm only going to illustrate this police politicization on two occasions. A lost dispatch, a direct link from the Ministry, which, of course, did it. Second. The Internal Minister directly led the police's operational action in the Ambrus case. Remember, you've all had a chance to see it on TV screens. What's police politicization? This is not only information that the Minister of the Interior has received, but he is directly operationally leading the police, and in what other matters! I've only given you two things to show for it. Thus, those who are already talking about police politicization should, when they get up in the morning, really set up a mirror and look in that mirror, especially when police investigators say so.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Well, I'm sure we're going to adopt a supplement to the marriage today, which is good. By addressing this issue, two or even three governments have so far been involved in the establishment of a law enforcement group. This government, under the leadership of this minister, has turned words into actions and the body is already functioning. This is the first key message. Another time. There was a lot of talk about politics. I think the predecessor with the illustrations told us all about it. The call for the director of the police was heard several times. I am glad that the public and all those who are involved in this today do not say whether it is doing good or doing bad, because if it was doing bad, it would be on the front pages of all the most important media today. A key message is that we have selected good staff. And there is nothing wrong with having criminal offences, suspicions or doubts of public officials of such a character that they are among the most difficult to be investigated by the most qualified authorities. Surely, however, such an office as this will not deal with those who took a salad head to the market. In politics, we have already had, even in the National Assembly, such public officials who have been convicted or not because they have had a privileged position in the past, and today this is no longer the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u141	Political hygiene dictates that I save up my opponents who don't have any more time and they can't argue with what I have to say. Nevertheless, it is necessary to clarify some of the things that Mr Gorenak repeatedly repeats. That how it's going to be political usurpation, how it's going to be about some things that he already knows in advance. Some conclusions, some cases, have been repeated today in the middle of what happened and how someone did something to the police and so on. Where did you get all this information? Where did you get all this information? Just from what you read in the media? Are you afraid that any ties, connections, relationships, what kind of investments in the ministry, the police, or elsewhere would make it impossible for them to work in the future? Is there a problem here? Therefore, of course, let us discuss whether you are judging - of course you can no longer do so, so I will not continue this debate myself - whether it is a contribution to all political declarations and statements of the last ten - or whatever you want - years, how we are all for the prosecution of organised crime and not know anything else, abuse, corruption and so on, or whether it is just a convenient rhetoric for me to not have anything happened and by the logic of "keep the thief", all go under the rug. No! No! New times are coming. In these and such ways, an end must be made. They can't be all the results known before, they can't do their own thing sooner than the authorities can - and those who have powers, and even after all, are called for it - and it's only then that we can comment on the politicians or just tell them what we think. I am sorry that we are not discussing this, but that we are discussing some of the circumstances that should have an impact on how someone wants to tailor this body in his image.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u142	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr Kumer, formerly a Member of the Social Democrats, said one grave insult. He referred to one of my fellow Members as the "police tracer" in a poor sense, speaking of a typical case of hate speech in this House. I have calculated that in view of this new practice, which we have witnessed recently, when a member of one of the members of the Group has been constantly alerted to this hate speech, that Mr Kumer will also experience appropriate sanctions in terms of a reminder in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I think he earned it because of that expression, and also because of the untruths he had just spoken. I propose that we respect the rules of procedure in the same way for everyone. That dispatch, which was discussed, meant during the period when the police were led by the former police director and when another minister was at the Ministry, that disciplinary procedure was initiated and that the man was also reassigned to another police administration for this reason, and he was returned to the mandate of this minister, beware, even to the same place where the inconvenience was committed. So the current authorities brought him back, and it's not true what was said before. And from what information that the Minister was informed after the story of the late Baricevic took place, she was informed. She said so herself in one of the media, publicly said that she had been informed for an hour and immediately informed her partner, who had nothing to do with the matter. And it was only later that the investigating judge and the competent prosecutor were informed. However, I think that this expression, which was given by Mr Kumr, and the label which was affixed to my fellow Member, if it is a police trail, deserves to be dealt with in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I think he deserved these expressions because, in an inappropriate, deplorable, abusive way, he stuck to my fellow Member that he deserved a reminder. Please, honourable Presidents, that you also act in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u144	With regard to warnings in an enemy or other inappropriate speech, the President shall not have any powers under the rules of procedure to which you refer. However, I think that President Gantar will draw up a new proposal for a code and procedure in such a case, even though I did not understand that Mr Kumer would speak in that sense. However, this was not the procedural proposal expected under the Rules of Procedure. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] There's no time, Mr. Petan. Who else? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the amendments today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE DETECTIVE ACTIVITY LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Madam Minister, Katarina Kresal, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u145	Dear Presidents, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The new law before you is subject to coordination with the acquis of the European Union, namely the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market and the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the recognition of professional qualifications. The novel introduces the following innovations, and I will limit myself only to the essentials. The competent authority, the Parliamentary Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia, has been given a public mandate to decide on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired abroad, as it has already done for Slovenian citizens. The discriminatory condition of the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia is eliminated. It is also deleted from the point of view of both Directives and certain judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Communities as a disproportionate condition for the active knowledge of the Slovenian language. It is important to point out that, despite the fact that the condition of Slovenian language knowledge is no longer contained in the proposal, the law itself does not reduce the obligation to use the Slovenian language when the detectives deal with the parties or with the authorities of the state administration, as provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Consumer Protection Act. The conditions under which foreign detectives will be able to carry out detective activities in the Republic of Slovenia are new, either on the basis of a licence obtained in Slovenia or on the basis of a licence obtained in the country of origin. A method and condition shall be laid down for checking professional qualifications acquired abroad before the first provision of activities or services in the Republic of Slovenia. This ensures the comparability of knowledge acquired abroad with the knowledge that detectives in Slovenia must have. We propose that the National Assembly adopt a proposed law which, according to the proposaler's opinion, translates the law of the European Union into the law of the Republic of Slovenia in an appropriate manner. However, public authorities still have the potential to protect public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u146	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered this law at its 15th session. 2. 2010, the proposaler of the Government. Procedure following the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly - reduced. Members and members of the Committee had the material, namely the proposal for a law, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council of 21. 2. 2010 and the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. In the course of the course of business, amendments were tabled by the SDS Group, on 3 February, and by the coalition's parliamentary groups without DeSUS of 3. 2. 2010 We invited representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, the Rule of Law and the Commission of the Council of State to the meeting of the Committee. Representative of the proposer, Mag. Klemenčič said in a complementary explanation that it is a matter of coordination with the acquis of the European Union, as we have just heard from the Minister. In the presentation of their opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that comments to individual articles, in particular from the point of view of nomotechnics, greater clarity and importance, on the specificity of these communications, were to the greatest extent taken into account in the amendments to the coalition. The draft law has also been given an opinion by the Commission of the State Council for State Procedure, which concludes that the Commission does not support the law. In his presentation, the President of the Commission, Bogomir Vnučec, said that the Commission had expressed the idea of deleting the condition of active knowledge of the Slovenian language. Members and members of the Committee discussed Article 5 of the bill amending Article 16c of the law prohibits the conduct of detective activities in the Republic of Slovenia. Following the debate, the Committee adopted the amendment to Article 5: "The text of Article 16c shall be amended to read..." - as presented. The Committee also adopted amendments to Articles 1, 3, 4, 6, 7 and 9, as well as amendments to Article 9 of the SDS Group of Members. The SD, Zares and LDS groups withdrew the amendment to Article 5. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 2 and 5. The Committee voted on all articles of the draft law together and adopted them and are annexed to this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u148	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u149	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! Last week we discussed the Internal Market Services Act, which, in summary, implements the European Internal Market Services Directive. And since the scope of the provision of services has a substantive or indirect impact on a number of sectoral rules, this novelty is one of those which will adapt the internal legislation of the said Directive in the field of detective activity. In particular, the Directive applies to the work relating to the abolition of those activities. Therefore, the proposal for a new Law on Detective Activity removes the discriminatory condition of the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia, removes the disproportionate condition of active knowledge of the Slovenian language, redefines the condition for carrying out the detective activity of foreign nationals who are equal to our nationals in the Republic of Slovenia, and can also carry out activities on the basis of a licence obtained in the country of origin. The definition of ways and conditions for the verification of professional qualifications compares knowledge acquired abroad with that of a Slovenian detective. Given that restrictive measures may also be taken to carry out individual activities under this Directive, the reasons, conditions and procedure under which the exercise of the activity of foreign nationals is prohibited are very precise in the law. All of these are changes which, as a consequence, mean respect for European legislation and the consistent exercise of freedom of the free market in services. That is why we will support them in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u150	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u151	Your Honor! The new law on detective activities is primary in the procedure in order to comply with the legal order of the European Union, namely the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market adopted on 12 December 2006 and regulates the free provision of services in the internal market of the European Union. With this change, we open up Slovenian premises for the operations of foreign detectives, i.e. from the European Union and the Swiss Confederation. The proposed amendment of the law confers public authority on the Detective Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia to decide on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired abroad. At the same time, the amendment removes the condition of citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia for obtaining a licence or carrying out detective duties and in the same article deletes the condition of active knowledge of the Slovenian language in carrying out a detective activity. We do not support the new law on detective activity in the Slovenian National Party Group. Article 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia stipulates clearly and undoubtedly that the official language in Slovenia is Slovenian. Despite the fact that Slovenia is a member of the European Union and is a free movement of labour one of its fundamental freedoms, we in the Slovenian National Party Group feel that it was necessary to maintain the condition of active knowledge of Slovenian language in carrying out detective activities in the current law. Under the law, a certain condition of Slovenian knowledge in carrying out a detective activity does not in any way limit the exercise of activities to other nationals of the Member States of the European Union and of the Swiss Confederation, since each Member State of the European Union may freely lay down the conditions for carrying out an activity in its territory. It is only necessary to respect the principle of equality so that the same conditions apply to both domestic and foreign citizens. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the Law on Detective Activities. In doing so, we would like to appeal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to pay greater attention to the preservation of the national language, which is undoubtedly the basis and headings of every nation and country, including Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u152	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The new law on detective activities is in the process of bringing the law into line with the legal order of the European Union, with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market adopted by 12. 12. In 2006, it regulates the free provision of services on the internal market of the European Union. With this bill we also open up Slovenian space for the operations of foreign detectives, according to the European Union or the Swiss Confederation. Article 1 of the proposed amendments empowers the Detective Chamber of the Republic of Slovenia to decide on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired abroad, as it already has the public authority to grant licences to detectives from Slovenia. In accordance with the European legal order, we are obliged to remove the condition of the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia for obtaining a licence or carrying out detective duties. Article 2 of the novel also deletes the condition of active knowledge of the Slovenian language, which is likely to be a few words later. In doing so, I would like to make it very clear that we are in no way prejudice to other provisions such as the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian, the Law on the Procedure for the Recognition of Qualifications of European Union Citizens, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation for the Management of Regulatory Occupations or Activities in the Republic of Slovenia. All these regulations require and lay down certain basic rules on the public use of Slovenian as an official language in the Republic of Slovenia. This law does not oblige foreign detectives or nationals of other members of the European Union or of the Swiss Confederation to obtain a licence in Slovenia not to operate in Slovenian in their work or in their dealings with official bodies. Article 3 of the novel redefines the conditions for carrying out detective activities; it is two possible activities. The first is that foreign citizens in Slovenia will be licensed to carry out detective activities under a procedure which is exactly the same as that of Slovenian citizens, including the examination carried out and so on in the Slovenian language. The possibility is also opened for only individual transactions by a detective of another member of the European Union to be carried out in Slovenia, with the permission of the Chamber to do so. The articles we are amending today do not significantly interfere with the regulation of detective activity in Slovenia. The rest of the provisions in the law remain largely unchanged and we support this amendment of the law in the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr Andrej Magajna will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u155	Nice greeting to all present, especially to my colleagues, Madam Minister on the day of the wife, March 8th! The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats supports the adoption of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Detective Activities. Amendments and additions aimed at coordinating with the acquis of the European Union, namely the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, coordination with the European Economic Area policy and the Swiss Confederation and the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. The novelties introduce several important innovations. The Detective Chamber shall be empowered to decide on the recognition of professional qualifications acquired abroad. The disproportionate condition of active knowledge of the Slovenian language is deleted. Foreign nationals may obtain a licence in the Republic of Slovenia or carry out a detective activity based on a licence issued in the country of origin. A method and condition shall be laid down for the comparison of professional qualifications obtained abroad. The conditions for the prohibition of carrying out detective activities, the conditions for carrying out detective activities of persons who are not citizens of the EU or of the European Economic Area or of the Swiss Confederation, and the various discriminatory obstacles already raised by the Minister, are laid down. However, several different dilemmas have been expressed on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. 16.C Article of the Law prohibits the carrying out of a detective activity in the Republic of Slovenia to persons who in a certain way pose a serious threat to the public interest. Should the prohibition of the equalization of these persons for citizens and legal persons in the Republic of Slovenia, with regard to the prohibition of the exercise of an activity, also apply to the withdrawal and termination of a licence? An amendment was tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, which was also an amendment to the Committee, which, according to the proposal for a bill, regulates this situation more comprehensively. The proposal for an amendment to the Committee covers various situations that are possible with regard to the prohibition of the activity of a foreign detective, the situation shall be forfeited if a foreign detective has acquired it in our country and the situations of the prohibition of the exercise of an activity for reasons of public interest, provided that the licence has been issued by an authority of a foreign country. While the SDS amendment was narrower, it covered only the situation where our country's licence was issued and was therefore weak. The second dilemma referred to the demand for active knowledge of the Slovenian language. The applicant himself has already identified that this requirement is inherently appropriate. It was also defined by the Council of State, but considered that, like other areas of veterinary, real estate, geodetical activities, we should not insist on such restrictive conditions, nor should the principle of proportionality, as is the case with the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Community. Notwithstanding the fact that the condition of knowledge of the Slovenian language is no longer enshrined in the law in the proposal, this does not reduce the requirement for the use of the Slovenian language when the detectives will deal with the parties or authorities of the state administration, as provided for in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Consumer Protection Act. The SD Group therefore proposes that the National Assembly adopt a proposal for a law that we are talking about, which regulates it appropriately, transposes the European Union's legal system into our space.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u156	Thank you. Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u157	Thank you very much. In the SDS Group, we note that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on detective activity is more or less intended to comply with European rules. We have also contributed our share to the Committee on Public Administration and Justice's internal policy with one of the amendments that has been adopted. Nevertheless, we have prepared an amendment relating to Article 10 for this plenary hearing, Article 10 being a transitional and final provision, but it relates indirectly to Article 2 of the Act. Indeed, we want to see this alignment with the Member States of the European Union, the EEA and the Swiss Confederation carried out a little later than envisaged in the same basic text. As far as the SDS Group's proposal is concerned, we will not oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u158	Thank you. Mr Tadej Slapnik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u159	Respectable. By amending and supplementing the Law on Detective Activities, we are coordinating the sectoral law with the legal order of the European Union, more specifically the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market, which was adopted on 12 December 2006. The deadline for its implementation was 28 December 2009. The law removes the restriction that the licence for carrying out detective activities in the Republic of Slovenia can only be obtained by Slovenian citizens and amends the regulations and removes certain obstacles to the performance of the individual detective service of foreigners. In accordance with the provisions of the law, detectives from the Member States of the European Union, the EEA and the Swiss Confederation may carry out a detective activity in the Republic of Slovenia if they have obtained the right under the conditions of their home country, i.e. those countries which have issued appropriate documentation to the detective to carry out the detective activity. The exercise of detective activity constitutes an activity whereby individuals with measures may violate human dignity and privacy, and thus directly their rights and freedoms. It is therefore in the public interest to protect human rights and freedoms. In order for the protection of human rights and freedoms to be truly successful, persons wishing to carry out individual detective activities in the Republic of Slovenia must be professionally qualified. They must not be punished for an alleged offence which is prosecuted under official duty and must have evidence that they have the right to carry out a detective activity in their home country. Before carrying out their first detective activity in the Republic of Slovenia, they must inform the Chamber in writing or in electronic form. The written notification must be accompanied by appropriate evidence demonstrating the justification for carrying out the detective activity in the Republic of Slovenia. The Chamber shall, by entering a record to a foreign detective, confirm the right to carry out a detective activity and inform the applicant and the Ministry responsible for internal affairs thereof. Such information shall establish control and, at the same time, the possibility of banning the conduct of detective activities. The notification shall contain information that will allow for direct communication with a foreign detective with regard to previous indications. Let me remind you of the current case, which recently indicated the need to regulate the conduct of detective activity in Slovenia by detectives from foreign European countries. About a month ago, the media reported on Austrian tobacco vendors who hired detectives to monitor cigarette buyers on the Slovenian-Austrian border with cameras. If they bought you more than 10 boxes, they got a ticket. Since December last year, media cameras of private investigators have detected more than 200 Austrian buyers who bought more than 10 permitted packs of cigarettes in Slovenian border stores. Almost half of them have also received tickets for the payment of €350 fines, which the Austrian public found absurd and to be contradicted by the logic of the European open borders. Whether Austrian buyers were recorded by Austrian detectives and whether they were in breach of Slovenian law and were punished by the competent Slovenian authorities, this disclosure of their activities in public was not discussed. By adopting the novel that we are considering today, the activities of foreign detectives in Slovenia are precisely defined and regulated and this makes it impossible for all foreign detectives to make any excuse for Slovenia's delays in harmonising Slovenian legislation for the Directive of the European Parliament. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposal for a new law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u160	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. Respectable present. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Detective Activities, as they do not deviate from the objectives and principles of existing legislation and constitute a continuation of the practice so far by introducing a directive on services in the internal market. The law therefore removes the restriction that only Slovenian citizens can obtain a licence for carrying out detective activities in the Republic of Slovenia. It also amends the provisions and removes certain obstacles to the provision of individual detective services to foreigners. According to the new Slovenian space, it will also be open to the operations of foreign detectives, according to the European Union or the Swiss Confederation. Members of the Slovenian People's Party also believe that administrative cooperation between Member States is necessary, not only for the exchange of information, but also for the establishment of an effective control mechanism. We also support that, for reasons of ensuring public order, public health, public safety, environmental protection, consumer protection and social policy objectives, the prior consent of the Ministry of Home Affairs and the presentation of individual evidence demonstrating the right of the company or individual to carry out detective activities in the home Member State of the European Union. Finally, it should mention only that the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group joins the Commission of the National Council for State Arrangements, which has expressed the idea of deleting the condition of active knowledge of Slovenian for carrying out detective activities in the Republic of Slovenia, because this is not in accordance with Article 11 of the Constitution, according to which the official language is Slovenian. We also agree that Slovenian consumers have the right to documentation in their mother tongue, and we want our institution to pay more attention to language policy and to the use of its own Slovenian language at home and in the institutions of the European Union when we adapt to some legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u162	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Article 10 and the amendment tabled to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I can see the hand. Would you please sign up for anyone who wants to discuss it? Mr Grimes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. Slovenian is a value that we all forget too often. Without the Slovenian language, we simply cannot talk about the preservation of Slovenian culture. After all, the Slovenian language is also protected by the Slovenian Constitution. We therefore wonder why such an attitude, as in this case shown in this law, to the Slovenian language. How important the Slovenian language is when it comes to community and community communication, let me show you an example, because I have only now an opportunity. I tried it before, and the president of the National Assembly completely took away my word from me before I even explained what it was. And as a human being, as a Member, I will distance myself from the story that was in this morning's National Assembly, when Member Really took the right to equalize the word Holocaust and so-called deletion, which is not at all. This is an act that is hostile to speech and offends the entire Jewish community, not only in Slovenia, but in Europe, and is an act that is inappropriate to any Member, especially because we need to know that the design of the so-called deletion abroad is understood entirely differently because of the concept that is essentially used abroad. I would like to point out that the solutions that were established in Slovenia at the time of its independence were also set an example in the European Union's bodies. Therefore, the comparison of an unheard-of, incomprehensible Nazi crime is unfortunately also at the constitutional and legal level with regard to Slovenian independence extremely inappropriate and offensive to all those who did their work at the time of Slovenian independence also in internal affairs bodies. All of this, I'm sure the National Assembly owes an apology. That's what I wanted to call the President of the National Assembly, but he knew exactly what manipulation he had done, so before I could say anything, he took my word. This is just a case of how important Slovenian is and it is therefore difficult to understand that it is so easy to deviate from the requirement for active foreign language knowledge. Indeed, even the Directive of the European Union is quite clear in this respect that this Directive does not affect measures in any way and does not require the State to adopt anything, contrary to the interests of the preservation of its language or the preservation or promotion of cultural or linguistic diversity, provided that I am precisely quoting this Directive from the European Union. In this case, the State Council, to which we behave quite negatively in the National Assembly many times, I think it has done the very right thing because it has warned that it is too easy to let things go and that it would be worth reconsidering. Therefore, we are also proposing an appropriate solution after which we can gain a period in which we can reconsider this solution, which is now enshrined in the law. We'd suggest deleting it. You know that this is not possible procedurally, given the time in which we are, according to the stage of the procedure, so I propose that its implementation be postponed. This cannot create harmful consequences, there is no problem, because this part is formally open, only that this condition remains for all who want to do so in Slovenia. And I would like to point out that we are also dealing here with the issue of human rights protection. Detectives, you know that they carry out certain tasks, certain powers that quickly find themselves on a very dangerous, slippery terrain of the edge of human rights protection. It is therefore difficult to understand that the conditions for having an active knowledge of the Slovenian language should be completely abandoned. Every citizen, every citizen rightly expects that whoever has business with him or any other contact with him will be in line with the work he is doing to control the Slovenian language. And it will be clear, then, that there can be no misunderstandings or even worse in communication with that person. I would also like to call on the proposers to identify themselves before this comment and, above all, to the consequences that abandonment of this provision may have. This means that we can find ourselves in a position when people in Slovenia are carrying out detective activities who will not actively master the Slovenian language at all. Is this really in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia? In the SDS, we are convinced that there is no and that it would therefore be appropriate to make at least time with the adoption of this amendment, to reconsider this provision, to consider it and, I am sure, find more appropriate solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u164	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Tanko? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in Article 235 provide that representatives of the Government shall participate in the work of the National Assembly, in the presentation of views and in the debate. I note that in the debate on these three agenda items, despite the fact that the Government had announced 70 minutes of time, there was no practical discussion of the Government. However, the Minister and most of the time were also the Secretary of State. I think that this level, this communication between the applicant, in this case the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and the National Assembly should be raised to a more appropriate level. Because if this communication is not in the National Assembly, where there is a place to confront opinions, it is in fact inappropriate for the Government to announce 70 minutes of time and then do not speak at such important points as the Police Act and this Law on Detective Activity. And I'm surprised the government representatives are able to sit here for four hours without once opening their mouths in the debate. It's as if they obviously have nothing better to do than sit in the National Assembly and listen to what Members say without commenting in a single word. I propose that the leadership of the National Assembly to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia address the protest for the inappropriate attitude of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards the National Assembly. We had several amendments to each of the laws, and not a single representative of the Government of these amendments commented and expressed a position in the debate, in communication with Members. I think that such behaviour, such the attitude of representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards the National Assembly, is completely inappropriate. This has not happened in previous mandates. I really suggest that the work of the National Assembly also be seriously devoted to the Government and that the National Assembly is not just some apparatus that technically legalises everything the Government submits to the National Assembly, then the coalition provides a vote, minimizes all debates to a minimum, the government announces a large amount of time, the debate does not take place. As a result of the government’s conduct, we could conclude Friday’s meeting of the National Assembly, and today we still have a Monday when much time is running out. There is also a need to be rational in these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u166	Thank you. I think this is not a procedural proposal for the meeting itself, but Mr Tanko, if you want, it is probably a good question to raise this issue at the College of the President of the National Assembly. Do you still have a procedural proposal? Mr. Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Mr. Tanko can think what he wants, but nowhere in the Rules of Procedure does he say that government representatives must represent because he is disturbed by silence. In particular, at point 1, all of this was already stated, long ago by the Government correctly, honestly, supported, proven and reasoned. Of course, some would like to continue to argue, the minister wisely chose not to go into a fight with people who lie, who invent, and therefore I think that the proposal that the Government was to be called upon was, I don't know what, the stupidity that we can't just eat. Everyone has the right to act as stated in the Rules of Procedure. The government's representatives did the same today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u168	Thank you. Nor was this a procedural proposal. Mr. Grimes, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u169	Yeah. I propose that you, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, examine the College and agree on a uniform implementation of the Rules of Procedure for All. In particular, two cases which have taken place at this meeting. I would like to point out that the President of the National Assembly, when someone of the SDS was a type, was not a mere comparison in the negative sense that he was rejecting the possibility that someone would honor Hitler because he was building the roads well, he turned off the microphone in a moment and made a full exit so that in such a context it was not possible to give current events and Nazism or events in World War II, but it was not a current event at all, but a story related to the previous regime. However, in this case, the President of the National Assembly has allowed someone so-called deletion to be equal to the Holocaust, so this is a completely comparable matter, but those persons, because he was, of course, a member of the same party, have not yet been reminded. More than that, when someone wanted to propose an apology for this behavior, he took his word and turned off the microphone. Then we are surprised if, with such double standards of leadership and even such conduct by the President of the National Assembly, Parliament is enjoying less and less visibility in the public eye.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u170	This is not a procedural proposal either. I would ask that you open up the management issue or whatever at the College of the President of the National Assembly and not at the plenary session. So I'm breaking this point, once again, of the agenda. I am adjourning the 14th session of the National Assembly, which we will resume in half an hour, which is at 3:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u171	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda - discusses the draft law on amendments and additions to the Act on the regulation of the status of citizens of other countries successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We will first vote on the amendment to Article 1. In doing so, I inform you that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer, this is the SDS, to Article 2, points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, and to Articles 3, 7 and 8, and if this amendment, which we will first decide on, will not be adopted, all these substantive amendments will become irrelevant. We're moving to the vote. Please, Mr Grimes, on behalf of the Group of Members. If any other person wishes to explain his or her vote on behalf of the Group of Members, he or she should apply. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor. [[No, he's canceling.]] Mr Branko Grimes, on behalf of the SDS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u172	Your Honor! The amendment proposed by the SDS Group is essential. It is essential when it comes to the issue of values and fully illuminates the true face of the story of so-called eraseds, which has been dragging on for many years. It has always been complicated when it comes to individual treatment, and the reason for this is a key part of the content of this amendment. We are proposing only one thing: that those occupiers who attacked Slovenia with weapons cannot enjoy ratings under this law. That, therefore, the invaders, attackers, aggressors and speculators are removed from this process in advance and that this is identified for everyone in an individual process. All the time, all the years we've heard that these categories, so the aggressors and speculators among the so-called eraseds, aren't at all. Even today, some people have advocated this thesis on the part of the ruling coalition. If that is true, then you will surely support this amendment with both hands and gladly vote for it, for that moment will be the end of the vast majority of the readings that appear in this story from the very beginning. If you do not do so, then it will be clear what it is - that you are adopting an absurd law that rewards the aggressor, that you want to reward the occupier, which is a legal precedent, not in Slovenia, but in the whole united Europe, even in the entire democratic world. You won't find anything like that in any comparable country on Earth. Moreover, the reason why the adoption of this amendment is justified is also this, and this is linked to the first reason that the whole law as the ideology of the transitional left is based on lies. In fact, the material sent by the Government reads: "This law will have no financial implications for the state budget." I ask you kindly, from the debate itself and even from the material sent by the proposer himself, and from the discussion by the representatives of the ministry at the meeting of the committee, it is crystal clear that the cost of carrying out thousands of procedures will be the cost of any supervision and complaint already in the administrative part of the proceedings, then the lawsuits will be brought in the courts, then these people will have a free lawyer, which you have already guaranteed, and the issue of compensation and the exercise of various rights arising from the status of permanent residence in Slovenia, including all interest, will come to an end. And in doing so, allow yourself to write down that this law will have no material consequences, no financial implications for the state budget. The consequences will be, and we will repay them, not just in this generation, but in a severe crisis, but you are. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? Yeah, well, then I'll give you time to check in. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u174	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Of course, I will support this law, which is proposed by the Ministry of the Interior, this amendment, to the law, and now I have made a mistake, I'm sorry. [[...]] I'm not going to support it, I'm not going to support the amendment, but I was thinking, that's how I thought about the content, that I made a mistake, and I apologize to everyone. Why? Because what I listened to from Mr Grimes made me feel even more convinced that we could not do so. With this debate on the deleted, we must end once, decide to adopt legislation that will correct the injustices that we have committed, and no longer be a target of our disgrace towards them and against the international public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u176	I'm just going back to where I left off. In fact, there will be consequences. And these consequences will be extensive. Even if no action or exercise of the right to return would still be successful, there will still be a great deal of costs in the process itself, with free representation, which you have legislated in this case and, of course, we will also pay the taxpayers out of our pocket, and the costs of all those who will not be able to exercise their constitutional right to a trial within a reasonable time, because the courts will deal with these matters further. The silence of the Ministry representatives today is also very eloquent. Where silence whispers, there is a famous book, but this silence cries out, because you know exactly how much time it is for this story, and then sometimes you hide it for very inappropriate expressions, which are an additional argument that this amendment needs to be accepted. In particular, one of the members of the ruling coalition has previously allowed himself to be [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u177	Mr Grimes, don't argue with the opinions of the Members, you're explaining your voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u178	Yes, because I am just justifying why it is necessary to vote in favour and why I will vote in favour. Because he was equal in the discussion Holocaust and so-called erasure. Please! Holocaust is one of the greatest crimes in the history of mankind. However, what happened in Slovenia was that everyone was offered every opportunity to exercise any status, nationality or any other status, including permanent residence, if any. It was only necessary to want and this key step had to be taken. No country in the world has acted as arbitrarily as the State of Slovenia did in its independence. As a result, rewarding attackers is an even more morally controversial practice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u179	Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u180	I must say that before this implementation I have been in a crossroads, or believe the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Judges when I decide how to vote, or believe the opinions of ad hoc lawyers. Well, after the last debate, I found out and convinced me that I would vote against this amendment, because better arguments than this could not be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support the amendment. Of course, it is necessary to say that we are talking about this amendment, which is related to the other amendments and we have led the discussion before, and I have made it very clear in the discussion that a handful of people could have been wronged. I've given you some examples. But that this is a mountain of people, 99% or more of whom they have not been wronged. That's why the situation is the way it is. Of course, the coalition also referred to the Constitutional Court's decision to cover back, so there are no reasons. These people were invited. I gave you the case of Ljubljana, 7000 called before 26. 2, of course, 1992 and more than 500 came. Half of them responded, the others went home. All the other letters came back as "an unknown cover". It makes sense, too, because they obviously weren't here. Furthermore, the problem as such did not arise until 1995 and 1996, that neither did the foreign perceive anything wrong in this area, that the international institutions dealing with the protection of human rights did not perceive anything special, but that the problem of so-called deleted persons was later exported to Europe and that I also detected it in Geneva at the time of the consideration of the Slovenian 2005 report. At least on my part, the amendment must be supported in order to separate the injustice from what is called speculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Sign up for anyone who wants to discuss it. I'm opening time for a vote. I'm giving you one more time to start my voice-explanatory application. Here you go. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u184	Thank you very much, for your word, Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. Dear Madam Secretary. I think I, like everyone else who rejects this amendment, is driven by a desire for the truth. I am also convinced that the presidents of our clients, when called to court, do not lie about the reasons for their absence and we do not have to protect them in this lie, as well as anyone else. And it is in this desire that I truly believe that the ministry has also written the bill that is before us, so amendments are not necessary. In this same desire, the Constitutional Court made it clear, after determining the truth, how things were. With the amendments, if they were accepted, they would, of course, be put back where they don't belong. That is why, of course, this must be rejected. These amendments are for anyone who is associated with them, and for the next one, I'll be in touch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u186	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Very short. After so many lies and so much hatred and so much profanation of people in the Family Code Act, and even in this law, I am deeply convinced that such amendments as were tabled by SDS Members are not worthwhile, not necessarily necessary, but not worthy of support because they point to their nature and way of thinking.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u187	Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u188	I will not accept the amendment simply because it denies what is original, what is important in this article, that injustice be recognised and that it is intended to be corrected. It is not possible that 5,360 children, 10,896 women and others, would be conspiracies against the state, that those who wanted us all together would be sick to participate in an international conspiracy and that they would not have been prosecuted and punished by the original law or that they could not have been allowed to do so if they had committed a crime before the law, if they had been convicted and, of course, proved to them. This law even complements this provision in the third indent in such a way that, in the case of a foreigner in another country or before an international court, a criminal procedure which would be referred to this type of offence which you say cannot be granted this status of permanent residence or must be terminated until such time as this criminal procedure is completed. And, of course, also because of this, because if you have not been sufficiently original, the legal deletion, which has been proven by all international findings, is sad that you insist on political, human, I can also call this a primitive deletion further. Worse than not admitting what happened at the time, you do not recognize those rights that happened to people even 18 years after they happened.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u189	Thank you. We're moving to the vote. On the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1, which is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposer to Article 2, points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5, to Articles 3, 7 and 8. We're voting. Voting liquid. There are 77 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 45. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the amendment to Article 1 and all the related amendments have not been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. Does anyone want an explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I'm giving you time to report. Mr. Gantar, no. Mr Branko Grims on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u190	The adoption of this amendment is even more necessary, given that the previous amendment has not been voted on. The ruling coalition thus confirmed the following legal absurdity that those who did not wish to have their own permanent residence or any other status of citizenship, that they had been wronged and should be recognised for their return. This is a perfectly legal absurdity. But when we talk about this article, it's specifically about those who attacked Slovenia with weapons and only for them and nothing else. What does this article want? To eliminate, therefore, those who, within the framework of the then JLA as invaders or co-occupiers, attacked Slovenia with weapons and did not recognize fundamental rights under this law. So if you also refuse to do so, it means that you will legitimize a right, not only to someone who did not want it, but even to force it on others to prevent the exercise of that right, i.e. the right to citizenship or other appropriate status. Because that's legal-formally what this attack meant. That's really something he's saying to himself. You know very well that it does not hold up serious thought. A precedent was the judgment of a cell court, about 10 years old, which ruled when all the evidence was available, even a video of JLA officers beating up a civilian, kidnapped him, then released in time, a direct violation of human rights against a civilian in wartime. They were all forgiven. With what explanation? JLA was not an enemy army until October 1991. Then someone wonders if Klep, a Ukrainian lawyer, is talking about the fact that we have red felonies in Slovenia. This shameful judgment can, of course, be cited at any time as an explanation of why no one in Slovenia has actually been convicted of crimes committed against Slovenia or Slovenian citizens and citizens during the war on Slovenia. It is the fact that these people, only these, are excluded from this process so that they are not granted these rights. Because in this case, you will also reject this amendment, it will be clear that it is only for you to reward the invader, in order to reverse the historical facts and in order to account for the already difficult situation of all citizens and citizens, because of the crisis that you have pushed them to a great extent or at least to help deepen it, you are now further exacerbated by the new burdens, at the expense of those who once did. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? I'm giving you time to report. Would you please sign up for anyone who wants to? Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u192	Thank you so much again for the word. With my grandfather's eyes, it seems in a way my great-grandfather, Joze Shine, was the Master's fighter. Home from the Globe in Austria. When the first world war and its associated conflicts ended, the time of plebiscite arrived in Koroška, and most people in the plebiscite area decided, as we know, to the great grief of our nation. His decision was, you can conclude according to the foregoing, different, and so he decided to live elsewhere in the homeland of his people. That is why his grandson was also the mayor of Cerknica in the 1990s, and perhaps because of this he also has the Cerknica and the surrounding areas of the Notranj Regional Park. People just decide what we decide. However, if, of course, I wanted to decide and be a citizen of the Republic of Austria, this could become so, despite the fact that he was fighting the same Republic with a weapon in his hand. Because the Republic of Austria, like the Republic of Slovenia, does not know such a presumption of guilt, but we know the assumption of innocence and so on. Of course, it would also be true to say about the assumptions of loyalty or disloyalty and the assumption of aggressive or other behaviour, while the Constitutional Court itself stated in its decision of 26 February 2004 that the referendum issue relating to the same subject matter would be unconstitutional. So if we accept this amendment, we accept unconstitutional matter into law. Probably none of us who respect this country and respect its institutions do, so I'm going to reject this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u193	Mr Branko Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u194	The legal order of the Republic of Slovenia has so far not been aware of the award of the occupying party, nor of its co-workers. For the first time in history, if this amendment is rejected, it will be legalized by law. This will be an extraordinary precedent, not only for Slovenia's legal order, but even for Europe and the whole democratic world. Nowhere in this world, by the way, you will find no basis in the Constitutional Court's decision to recognise the rights to return or reward people who once calculated Slovenia's independence and even attacked it with weapons. This is simply not in the decision of the Constitutional Court to which you refer all the time. It's not in any international regulation, it's the opposite. All acts in the field of international relations that cover similar situations, of course, clearly condemn those who are perpetrators of crimes. No one in these acts condemns anyone who has legitimately defended himself. The equivalent of the holocaust that the current coalition has afforded, is offensive, is grave manipulation, is offensive to the Jewish community and is offensive to all who have sincerely helped to create an independent and independent state of Slovenia. That is also the reason, ladies and gentlemen, that the adoption of this amendment is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u196	Thank you for your word. Respectable. Given that you were not all in the Chamber at the time of the debate, in my explanation, why I would support this amendment, I will read what Article 4 says, in which we accept or vote on the amendment. It reads: "The Member shall be amended to read: The Administrative Unit shall refuse to issue a permit for the permanent residence of a party who has been legally convicted by a foreign or international tribunal for the crime of genocide, crimes against humanity, and war crimes, including those who were a member or employee of a JLA during the war on Slovenia and have not responded within a period of time to the call of the Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia for the transfer to the Territorial Defence of the Republic of Slovenia. Excuse me, but you're still saying you don't want to reward the aggressors! Even more, even those who have committed acts of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes are acceptable to you and will be rewarded. I'm sorry, but there's no words left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. 77 Members and Members voted for 31 to 44. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4 has not been adopted. We have thus concluded the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I open applications for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u198	Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the law because we believe that after 18 years and a few days it is right that in peace and without any prejudice and bad conscience we support a law that will regulate what should not happen. We believe that Parliament is not a public tribunal or a suitable place to identify who was the aggressor, who was the discoverer of the enemy of the country, who was allowed and who should not be rewarded. Too much has been said today and in the past, how some have been guilty themselves, how some have been engaged. There were too many things that did not regard us as friendly, among those who respect human rights on the basis of human rights, including those with whom we disagree, who think otherwise, who have done otherwise, who thought that they would otherwise regulate their future, as well as for children, but ultimately the size of one who is so on the winning side that he also admits the problems of the weak. We will also support the law because we are confident that in no case will anyone who has participated in aggression, every one of them should be brought to justice, will receive no compensation, will not receive any compensation if this is proven in the proceedings, no status. Many times it has been said how these cases will be handled and what this means for those who have been proved to be violations or crimes of which there are so many talks. As we are sure from this title, this law does not provide any compensation for anyone who will be in proceedings or who has not settled this status in any other way at this time. That is why today it is an opportunity and duty, at least so do the Members of the Liberal Democracy, to remove some dark fox from our history and to carry out this duty as a supreme constitution and our conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u199	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDS mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u200	Your Honor! We can only wonder what country we live in if all the fundamental values of Slovenian independence are so easily denied. You will not find any case in modern Europe, united Europe, nor in the modern world, when some political force within a country with the ease of denying the fundamental values and actions on which that state community has emerged, as is done by the current ruling coalition in this case. Why it's really going, it's clear to everyone now. After these last two votes, it is clear that it is a matter of buying electoral votes at the expense of an already impoverished people, and that even against aggressors and speculators, it will be the first time in history that they too will be included in the possibility of making a profit. And we can only imagine how bad it has been for all those new citizens and citizens who have done exactly what the law required of them at the time and what they were called upon to do, that is to say that they have regulated their status, in one way or another, when they are now sentenced by your decision to pay either compensation, judicial proceedings, administrative decisions, everything else, including those who were once attacked, blackmailed, speculated on by Slovenia's independence. And how is it possible for those who lost or sacrificed their health in the war for Slovenia? They should have in mind when you formed this law, you should have them in mind when you made a decision about it. Unfortunately, in your words this story does not appear at all, but at this moment the biggest claim of compensation, which any of the so-called deleted leads against the state of Slovenia, is now being carried to the second stage by a person who has been proven at the head of the JLA tank column, who in breach of one of the border crossings to the north shot at civilians and committed crimes. This is actually the situation we are talking about today. That is why this law is controversial and unacceptable because it is fundamentally contrary to the values of Slovenian independence, in fundamental contravention of the values of Slovenian statehood and is also in fundamental contravention of the values enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution. Objection to the Constitutional Court is irrelevant here. Constitutional Court [[...]] [[a sign for the end of the debate.]] This way you do it, it doesn't even give you an order. [[..]] This is a reflection of your policy, your sovereign decision and you take full responsibility for it. We will vote against it in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u201	Thank you. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? Please, whoever wants to sign up. Mr. Janez Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u202	This law cannot be supported; the content of this law offends the common sense of the Slovenians. I said earlier in the debate that in the seven years since this debate deleted, this coalition has done its utmost to multiply this number as much as possible. After more than ten years of independence in 2003, this category even appeared in the public after the wars in the Balkans ended and when it was clear that Slovenia would go to the European Union earlier than the rest of the former Yugoslavia, General Milan Aksentijevic, who was also in this category, said that Slovenia had wiped out more than ten thousand people. Former President Milan Kučan replied in March 2003: "Well, this number has been invented. But it's not the first thing Aksentievich invented. As far as I know, it is about 4 thousand people who are not known whether they are still in Slovenia or have already left Slovenia." In seven years, this government coalition or this political structure has done its utmost to give Aksentijevic the right, against former President Kucan, and you are actually operating today with the number 25 thousand. At the same time, those who could not actually arrange the status and those who did not want it and those who were hostile to the Slovenian state and therefore did not want it. This is done without any real concern for human rights. There are only political calculations with new voters in the background. If you went so far for human rights, then a few tens or a hundred workers in Kočev would not have been for a year and a half without pay.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Nor can I under any circumstances support such a law, which is harmful to Slovenia, harmful to Slovenian citizens. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have never objected to correcting the injustices of those who have actually been done to them. Such a possibility existed and we believe that there have been some such cases, but these cases should be identified. In this way, when the status is now established for all on average, this is certainly the first step towards the enforcement of compensation actions. So it explains that there is no talk of compensation in this law, they do not. In fact, this is wrapped in cellophane, which will also result in compensation in further proceedings. If you are so confident in the coalition that there will be no compensation, write down the article in the law that, in the event of compensation, you will be prepared to pay the compensation yourself out of your pocket. At that time, your credibility would also be convincing to me, and I believe that even for all of Slovenia. Finally, in Slovenia, we have tens of thousands of people who have been violated for decades, not just human rights, human rights, material rights, they have been bullied, and no one has done anything for them, and they are still left to themselves. And how many people are now working in a slave-ownership relationship in Slovenia, both Slovenian citizens and foreigners, and you don't care about them, but they are probably in more trouble than those speculators who then speculated, and most of them were not in Slovenia at the time of these records. So be honest and tell us what the political purpose of this law, as has been said many times, is to gather voters for the next election. But I believe you'll lose more than you get. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u205	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 30. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the law on the regulation of the status of nationals of other countries, successors of the former SFRJ in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 25. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 25.]] The decision is adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Bill of Supplements to the Police Act, the reduced procedure. Article 1 shall be accompanied by four amendments. All amendments were tabled by the SDS Group of Members. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Any other parliamentary groups would like to explain their voice? I'm opening time for an application. Mr Vinko Gorenak on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u206	Thank you very much. This amendment is linked to all other amendments, so allow me a common explanation. In the parliamentary group, we can also support the law, provided that these amendments are adopted. It is simply that we have already covered the political project of the Minister of Home Affairs for the second time. As we supported it for the first time when we amended the Police Act and retroactively introduced certain procedures on the appointment of the Director, so that the one who was elected long before the law was passed. We are doing something similar now, simply to formally introduce the so-called autonomous and independent National Investigation Office on paper, but this is really the following. It is a matter of introducing within the police, which must be autonomous and independent in any way, a national investigative office, whose responsibility we take past the Director-General of the Police and past the Director of the Criminal Police to the Minister of the Interior. Formally, too, to the government and parliament. It is a matter of reporting the Director of the National Investigation Office in his work through the Director-General of the Police to the Minister. This, however, informs the government or parliament. This suggests the typical of police politicisation, that for the most serious crimes, we draw one piece from the criminal police, we tie it to a policy called the minister, and we can manage it, as it is called. It's police politicization, and that's why we don't approve. Our amendments aim to make the National Investigation Office a part of the criminal police and must be solely and solely responsible for its work to the Director-General of the Police or to the Director of the Criminal Police. The police, as such, are already responsible for their work to the Minister. And there's no reason for the secretary to adopt one part of the police. So that's the reason. In addition, the Minister clearly politicises the work of the National Investigation Office by means of this proposal, as point 6 of Article provides that this Office will address the so-called suspicions of crimes that would have been committed or involved by officials. This means doing business on the basis of so-called anonymities, which will allow investigators to address those for whom they will agree in the Cabinet of Ministers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? Mr. Anderlich. Anyone else? I'll give you time to report. Anyone who wishes to define a vote on his own behalf should sign up. Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u208	Thank you very much. I can go on there, too. On the other hand, this law is unfair to the police system, in particular to police personnel who perform the most responsible tasks that solve the most serious crimes. If adopted in such a form, the law may also create disagreements within the profession. Why? For the main reason that these investigators are taken care of in the National Investigation Office, they are above average in terms of wages. Practically after reporting to the media, they could have or will have up to once more pay than those criminals involved in investigating even the most serious crimes. Please, what is the difference between a criminal who's been dealing with a murder for 10 years, and he's getting rid of it, and between this criminal who's going to be investigating some of the suspicions of the smallest crimes if they're committed by officials. I don't see why. I don't see that need. However, it is also important to stress very clearly, as I do as a group of Members, that we support all possible forms of organisation that lead to better work so that there is no obvious. However, it is not the politicisation of the police and it is not possible to support the solutions that lead to political interference in the work of the police in the most sensitive area. Finally, investigators from the National Investigation Office will also deal with or will have in hand with covert investigations. It's not good and it's not right to drive in this direction of politicisation. The minister likes to stress when she thinks she's smart and good and says, "No, no, I can't even ask that. I can't even ask, they're autonomous." Of course that's not true. Now you're taking this past the Director of Police to the Minister, and that's how it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u210	It was pointed out at the beginning of the consideration of the amendment of this law that, in fact, we all want to improve the work of the police, that we want as much organised crime and other crimes to be investigated as possible in some other countries where similar institutions such as national investigation offices or whatever their names are, some people like to say to the FBI and so on. But all of a sudden, there was this idea, this idea that it was a conspiracy. And this amendment, in fact, comes from the fact that because of the conspiracy, it is necessary to correct it. And if it's fixed as we think it will, then it'll be fine. But here, apart from the perceptions we're listening to, so to speak, all through and all sorts of cases are being recycled, which are supposed to be what they're calling after the need to ask the existing government, the ministry, the minister, "What are you doing? Aren't you heading in the direction of politicisation?" Although the results, empirically proven, show that certain weaknesses and those strange things that were either embedded in the system or the system allowed it to work as you would obviously like to see others now, so far it has been so. Now he wants to get rid of it, make it independent, but it has nothing to do with anyone choosing cases in their own image. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] , but after what has actually been investigated and proven in further procedures. [[...]] That's all it is and it's too bad you don't want to be involved in any more persecution. [[...]] [[Exclusion of the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u211	Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u212	Dear Vice President! The law has to be supported because it brings better work to the police. The National Investigation Office will get to the bottom of some things than it has been before. But if I'm just trying to get a little bit more memory-search, just one day ago, that is, yesterday, when I tried a little bit on national television to recapture what Drago Kos, President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, sold out, then this law should have been passed ten, twenty years ago so that they wouldn't be red when we were talking about it. For this reason, it is imperative to support these things to improve, to get to Slovenia as well, that those who make anomalies are made public, who are also so far away that they limit themselves to crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u213	Thank you. Are we moving on to a decision? Is there anyone else who would like to sign up to explain the vote in their own name? [[...]] I'm giving you time to report. Mr. Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Of course, I cannot under any circumstances support such solutions, although I am very, very much in favour of really dealing with an institution with economic crime or crimes that require particular professional treatment. So the idea itself as such wasn't bad here, either. However, the process itself, the way this will be done in the future, does not follow this objective. It is quite obvious here, clearly, that this will be an extended deadline for the ministry, Minister, on the initiative of choosing people, staff and I am sure that there will also be cases in which this body will deal with them. What does this organ bring? First of all, an additional cost for Slovenian taxpayers, a million 600 000 euros per year for renting premises. Apologize or excuse that this team will be made up of an eminent group of crime experts, finance, obviously not. A few days ago, we witnessed the first blemish of such action, where it is quite clear, at least so announced by the lawyer's house, that they were working contrary to the legislation, that they were essentially working completely on their own and that all the proceedings that had been carried out would also fall. If that's the quality we want to pursue with this body, I'm afraid we're not gonna catch any of the big thieves, while all the big criminals that they probably have to show off the many millions they've acquired in an illegal way, and we certainly won't. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We've never been able to find out, and even less to prove it in court. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We have already said in the debate on behalf of the parliamentary group that we have nothing against the investigating office itself. We support these points where this investigative body should work. Our colleague, who was also tasked with explaining this on behalf of the Group of Members, made it clear to you that the first five points, on the basis of which or what should be taken into account in particular in the functioning of this investigative body, are, of course, acceptable to us. However, the 6th point is unacceptable, the alleged involvement in the crime of public officials and directors in the public sector. It seems to us that the directors of public office are already somewhere on the wallpaper. More or less major companies are all criminalized. Now it will become completely legal, but that first part, alleged involvement in the crime, is the suspicions, the holders of public functions and directors. It seems to me that we have already experienced such a similar case, and on this basis we express certain doubts. What does that mean? Does this mean that these top-notch investigators, criminals, will have to deal with protection at the wedding of some public official or director? We've seen this before. Where does it say that these investigators who will work autonomously, subordinated to a minister or a minister, in this case, will not deal with such things? It is enough to announce that there is a suspicion that someone will write an anonymous one and then this will be the main theme of this investigative body, where top crimesters will work. I ask you whether there are enough doubts about the content of this law and also this article. I can't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u217	The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u218	Your Honor! The question of who will oversee the overseers is one of the fundamental issues of every democracy. The condition that this starting point can be realized that supervisors are also supervised is that, to the greatest extent possible, political decision-making is separated from professional issues. For this reason, the amendments tabled by the SDS are worthy of support, because otherwise, and not according to any conspiracy theory as previously said, but obviously because you are doing so with the law, the decision-making pathways will also be concentrated on professional issues more when they were in the hands of one person. And this person will be a politician, this person will be a minister or a minister himself. And this is a temptation that must be resisted by every authority. Clearly, she was unable to do so, so she proposed such a law. This raises a fundamental question as to whether all will be treated equally and whether corruption and crime will in fact be prosecuted or whether there will be political abuse of the police. Surely no one who does his work in the National Assembly is willing to do so. For this reason, it would be necessary to confirm the amendments which are before you to return to the legal and constitutional order as it has been so far. The reasons why so much power is concentrated in the hands of the minister are, unfortunately, known only to her. For today, when the debate took place, we witnessed the grave silence of the Ministry's representatives despite many questions. That also says a lot about why it's true [[....]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a decision on the first amendment. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment tabled by the SDS Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 27 to 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the third amendment tabled by the SDS Group in Article 1. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 27 to 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the fourth amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 27 to 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. I'm sorry, I didn't see. Anyone else want to do this on behalf of the delegation? I'm giving you time to report. On behalf of the SDS Task Force, Mr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Since I cannot argue with Members or with the Minister, I can only speak in general. We've been told to see some terrible conspiracy, but we're all behind it, etc. That's not true. We see specific things. Today's police are defined in the Police Act, it states, in Article 2, that it is autonomous, that it is responsible to the Minister, etc. By this law, you are establishing a national investigative office, which is operational autonomy under Article 6a, the criminal police provide it with technical conditions. And I said I don't know what that means, whether the director will bring them coffee or what that is, I don't know, it's cariculating. Next. I told you to set up inside the police, subordinated to the minister. The evidence is clear. The Director of the NPO shall send an annual report on the work through the Director-General to the Minister. He sends it to the minister through the director. So the minister has a report and he gets it. So he's reporting to her and not to his boss. Where did you see that? It's the same as if someone in Renault decides to say, "I'm going to make four-ball wheels, and I'm going to have the car production adjust to the CEO." Yeah, where did you see that? Then we have a follow-up, and this one introduces to the government. My dears, do you want to introduce her to the extraction or something? I asked you to write down at least the report to be sent to the Government and Parliament. No, no, no. This is proof that you want to politically submit one important part of the police to the minister. Nothing else. And we don't see any conspiracy. The law must be supported because all police in the world are adapting their organisation to the latest, most demanding forms of crime. Even the courts, including the prosecutions. That is why marriage is essential. But there's no need in any way. There's no reason to tie this to the minister. Oh, for God's sake, leave it to the police, and there's no more trouble, and there's no more trouble! The National Investigation Office should therefore be subordinated to the Director-General of Police, as should all parts of the police. There's nothing out of him. Today, however, you will have written in the law that the Director-General of Police is responsible for the work of the police and has no impact on investigating the most serious crimes. And that's what this office is going to do, and it's going to decide what it's going to do. And that's the only mistake of this marriage. And that's why it's not possible to uphold the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice on their behalf? Let me sign up, please. Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u222	I'm glad at least someone listened to you at least listen to this. The fact that no one replicates or no one reports to me is proof that you understand. But I will further substantiate at the time set out in the Rules of Procedure, hoping that, however, you will vote in a manner that is professionally correct and necessary for the police and as it would be professionally and properly necessary for a really good investigation of crimes in this area. There is no reason that the Director-General of the Police is the one who appoints the Director of the National Investigation Office after a well-known commission which this law foresees, but if you have already chosen it, the newspapers have also written about it. There is no reason to cover this now by law if we know that the coalition or the minister, whoever it is, has said that it is Mr Hari Furlan. That means now he'll come before that committee where they'll say he's the one. But this is a political selection of personnel, so this is a departure from what the President of the Government said at the beginning and on the basis of which you also came into power when you said you would go to a new human resources policy. This is a new human resources policy: one candidate, who is subsequently confirmed by a law-appointed commission, is already well known. That's absurd. Not to mention the part where I feel sorry for those police officers who are going to investigate extremely serious crimes in one way or another, and that's why they won't even work anymore. Last but not least, the National Investigation Office will be receiving information from the field. Yeah, where'd it come from? In the field, those criminals will get information, and they'll use it. Nothing else. And they'll investigate. They will be paid less and others will be substantially higher. Wrong world.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u223	Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u224	I will not support this marriage for more than one reason. Let me just say two. One is unnecessary. Today, the minister said in her introduction: "The National Investigation Office, as you know, is already in operation, was established on 14.11.2009." So what's the point of this marriage? After reading what it says, we could see that it is necessary to enable a direct political link against those who will investigate individual actions. And that's bad. This opinion of the public, which is increasingly being strengthened by the fact that the police are increasingly politicised and controlled by only one political option, is becoming ever stronger. And this amendment to the law that you will obviously confirm today is another additional step towards strengthening this opinion in public. With the provisions you will enact, this opinion will be further strengthened. If the amendments proposed were adopted, at least they would allow some normal procedure to begin the functioning of that body. And the second reason is this. In this law, you will have reason to believe that the decision on which investigations into suspected offences will be taken by the NPU, in addition to the decision taken by the Head of this NPU, is based on the alleged involvement in the criminal offence of the holders of public functions, and so on. I believe that the Minister's alleged involvement in the crime of abuse of the official position in the rental of premises for the MPU has been expressed in the last period. I personally don't want the police chasing their own secretary. I believe that's not what you want. By voting for this law, if this does not happen because it is written in the law, you will raise suspicion that the police are politically guided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u225	Thank you very much. We vote on the bill. We're voting. 77 Members and Members voted in favour. There were 48 votes against 27. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Detective Activity, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled to Article 10 tabled by the SDS Group. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I'm giving you time to report. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mr Branko Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u226	Your Honor! Slovenian language is, however, the very foundation of Slovenia, an inseparable part of Slovenian culture, which cannot even exist without it. This is why it is an incredible ease that we renounce in some law the right to use the Slovenian language. In order to avoid the harmful consequences that may therefore arise in relation to such a solution in the Law on Detective Activity, the SDS proposes that the implementation of this should be postponed, so that the consistent principle of the use of the Slovenian language, as provided for in the Slovenian Constitution, is respected at that time and that no harmful consequences can be achieved. This time, however, can be used to re-examine this story and find more appropriate solutions. I would be happy to say more about the content of the arguments, but I cannot because we did not have an interlocutor. Just as it was not in the debate about the so-called deleted or the Police Act, even here, despite the explicit questions why such a solution had not been answered at all by the Ministry of the Interior. I guess he doesn't have any arguments. If there were any arguments, it would probably answer that question. Let me put forward the arguments for the solution proposed by the SDS. The first is already found in the European Parliament Directive itself, which says that it does not interfere with those measures which are in accordance with legislation. [[...]] In respect of the preservation or promotion of cultural or linguistic diversity, the individual State shall apply. This opens the possibility of maintaining, in a given case, the provision that the active management of Slovenian should be carried out for all, irrespective of nationality, which would like to carry out a detective activity in the territory of the State of Slovenia. This is not only a matter of attitude towards Slovenian and Slovenian culture, but also a question of human rights, it is also a question of human dignity, respect for its privacy, because all of this is related to the conduct of a detective activity in terms of the average citizen or citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. How can you communicate normally if you do not have active Slovenian language? In practice, this will not be possible in many cases. This can lead to misunderstandings, but also to something significantly worse, because it is a detective activity, and it can lead to systematic human rights violations in Slovenia at the end. In addition to the reasons suggested by respect for the tradition of Slovenian culture, Slovenian language as values, there are also legal reasons for accepting this amendment and for giving Slovenia the city, the existing city and the importance it deserves.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u227	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 47. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment was not accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to the third reading of the proposal for a law. As no amendment has been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. Mr Grimes, an explanation of vote on behalf of the delegation? Any other parliamentary groups would like to explain their voice? I'm giving you time to report. Mr Preseknik on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u228	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Unfortunately, I must say on behalf of the Group of Members that this amendment, which was a good one proposed by the colleagues of the SDS Group of Members, has not been adopted. Nevertheless, we believe that marriage is necessary in the Group of Members. It is also a matter of coordination with European Union legislation, which is necessary for the normal functioning of this activity, and that is why we will also support this law in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u230	In the SDS, we are aware that the essence of this law is to comply with the directives of the European Union. Unfortunately, it goes beyond that framework. There is no need to disregard that provision of a directive allowing the State to protect its language in order to protect the linguistic diversity of the European Union, as the directive itself says. On the contrary, there are many reasons that speak for this, but they regret that you were not willing to listen even to this point in order to gain time by voting for our amendment to re-examine this issue, which is an extremely important question, and to find more appropriate solutions. That is why we will not oppose the law, but unfortunately we cannot support it in the form it is now. But only by disappointment can we find out something else. In a way, such a vote on this amendment, which we gave in favour of Slovenia, Slovenian, Slovenian, and thus Slovenian culture, was expected. If someone does not respect the values of Slovenian independence, the very foundation of his statehood, therefore, if someone despises an interlocutor as we have always been exposed to ridicule in all the arguments in today's debate when it comes to so-called deleted by the ruling coalition, then it is logical that he does not respect his own language and culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u231	Thank you very much. We're moving on to decision-making. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would not have led to a lack of harmonisation of the law's proposal. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, for 51, for 4. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the continuation of the 16th cut-off item of the agenda - to the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Provinces. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on landscapes is suitable for further consideration. I give time to explain my vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u232	Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SLS Group, Franz Bogovich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u233	Good afternoon. Local self-government is a dynamic process and since the municipalities we have had since the mid-1990s in Slovenia in the 1960s, the process of creating local self-government in a form such as today has started since 1994, it is said, by increasing the number of municipalities. These approaches were different in Slovenia, in some environments the municipalities were significantly more fragmented than in others, and the situation is certain to arise and other reasons are also called for after the establishment of the provinces in Slovenia. In the previous term, the Constitution has also been amended, which, from a prior voluntary link, has committed Slovenia and we also to adopt legislation and to fully confirm it by a two-thirds majority when we establish the provinces. In the previous term, the Minister responsible for Local Self-Government prepared, together with the Government, with all ministers, with the clear determination of the President of the Government in the previous mandate to prepare the entire package of provincial legislation: the Law on Provinces, the Competence of the Provinces, the Financing, the Elections, the Elections to the First Regional Council, as well as the Law on the Establishment of the Provinces. Throughout Slovenia, a broad presentation of this legislation took place in the previous mandate, while also identifying the appropriate functionalities of some environments that have already functioned as some of the surrounding provincial units in recent years. This has also resulted in a proposal for legislation, which we now have in a similar form before us. Unfortunately, in my earlier mandate, in my deep conviction, a great opportunity was missed to practically set up landscapes at the start of the 2007-2013 financial perspective, and to do so should also start with a policy of equitable regional development and, accordingly, a coordinated withdrawal of European funds. Now we have the opportunity to correct what we believe has been done wrong in the previous term, when the necessary majority has not been provided for the adoption of this legislation. In the Slovenian People's Party we will support the entire package of all six laws and we hope that it will receive the necessary majority.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u235	Thank you so much for saying that. The provinces are a developmental opportunity. That they were indeed a development opportunity, the current Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Pahor, was aware of them as the current government coalition. This legislation was incorporated into the first year of its mandate. However, when the year ended, she did not submit this programme to the National Assembly. Even more so when we filed it because the government did not file it, the Prime Minister of the Government said that it was no longer the priority of this coalition and this government. If we had provincial legislation, if we had the provinces set up, we would no longer be engaged in this mandate by the Government correcting the Resolution on Basic Development Programmes and by deleting from this resolution the basic development programmes of each area. For example, the Oreh centres, which is important for central Styria, are the problem of deleting development axes, 3a development axes and 4th development axes. Since we do not have a systemic basis because we do not have this matter systematically regulated, the Government is trying to address these problems in a non-systemic manner, with specific laws such as the Development Assistance Act of Pomurje. Even earlier, it solves the richest ones, such as the Main City Act, and some other cases with special development funds, such as, say, the last case when the President of the Government set up the Development Council for White Krajina and Kočevsko. Such separate approaches, specific approaches, will be even more so because there is no comprehensive system framework. Since the Government has not submitted this project, we have submitted it to the Slovenian Democratic Party. This time we have the whole package of provincial legislation on the table for the second time, the legislation is fully harmonised and systematic to deal with development problems in the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that developmental differences are increasing, that these developmental differences are further accelerated by the specific laws adopted by the Government and special solutions, such as, say, the capital. And the fact is that these developmental differences and developmental backlogs cannot be regulated differently from the systemic laws governing the establishment of landscapes. This is the only way that people living in a particular province will set their own priorities and that this will not be determined by the Government in Gregorčič, when they exclude certain projects with these manoeuvres, which have determined their own priorities, and that will not be determined by the Government in Gregorčič, when they exclude certain projects that are fundamental to the development of individual areas or regions. We will uphold this law and the rest of the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Anybody else want some? Please, Mr. Bukovnik, on your own behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I cannot support the proposed package of provincial legislation precisely for the reason that this proposal was tabled in the parliamentary procedure. However, let me say right now that there will be no proposal for my vote, which will not include it in the future of the province of Cora. This would further substantiate with a few versions written by our musician Milan Kamnik and they say: "Vykobarti kira giggles me, k'k'k's time on the benches, that g're getting to know me every year when he goes to the bath. I wash her, and I swear that she doesn't represent her, I think she's deaf, and I tell her how, and I show her the pictures, and then I stretch the atlas, and I rub my finger, and I rub this border on her dick, and my grandmother looks at me like that, if you're German, 'I'm shushing. I'm looking for her half-naked at the school in Lublana. I'd love to see Koroška alone. You're a screwdriver, you're going to go all the way, everybody comes at me, you're a screwdriver, I'm going to be the limit of the station, but we're even." And the third development axis must be in Koroška.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Not only this one, but the whole package of legislation needs to be supported, this is clear to everyone, I think it was still clear after the closing act. In history, for the first time and comprehensively in the previous term, we have prepared a comprehensive package of laws that has been aligned to the maximum possible extent with the ground as such. We have heard that in the past two days, we will reject it and we will prepare consistent legislation according to the measure of the people. That's what someone said in the debate. We have also just heard a debate where it has been relatively clear about Koroška, and I respect this very much. But there is something, all of these are evidence in every way, in every way evidence of just one thing, that's that you're going to have to unify at 13 + 1. If at 13 + 1, what we have proposed, we will not unify this province's legislation, we will not only move from this mandate to the next term, but even further. And this is not particularly good for regionalism in Slovenia This is not good for all those areas that have been lagging behind the capital for thirty years. And I wonder to all those who live in such environments, I am among them myself, and you are not prepared for some party discipline to say to Bob and say, "No, we need the provinces!" Those of you who have this opportunity, this is just us Members, now you have to press the button that says "for". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Renata Brunskole. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u241	Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues. I cannot support the proposed package of provincial legislation in this form today. However, I agree with my colleagues, especially those who insisted with me on Friday until the end that, with regard to some of the dilemmas that Mr Henrique Gjerkeš also spoke very clearly, certain matters must also be very clearly defined. Also on a financial basis, including in terms of jurisdiction, mandate in the provinces, in the provincial councils and so on. However, because there is much debate about the third development axis, including the third development axis, and the southern part, in connection with the development of individual areas, let me say and thank you very much to all colleagues who often remember me and talk about the White Land as one of the hospitable countries that really does not have a quality transport connection. However, on the basis of what was also provided to the President of the Government on Friday by the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Transport, the third development axis, the southern part, is actively preparing, in particular, the documentation, and later, as I can see, since there are many times now the White Landscape and Kočevsko are limited, I have little doubt that there would be, when it comes to supporting, funding for the entire construction, five hundred million euros to build this project as quickly as possible with the start of 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u243	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support this proposal for provincial legislation, because I am sure that Slovenia needs it. And we have already missed a great deal in the area of decentralisation in the past 20 years. I am very surprised, however, that in the previous term, when we have actually prepared and discussed this proposal, many mayors, who were not Members at the time, have also supported such a proposal. And now it is not very surprising that this amendment and the suggestion that this proposal is no longer appropriate today, but that even their fellow Members have been lobbying in Parliament to support the legislation needed by the two-thirds majority. Where did this duplicity come from? I'm curious. And I firmly believe that if Slovenia does not have provincial legislation, uneven development will continue. I'm sure the Pomura Act won't bring those effects, I'm sure of that, and you're probably sure of that yourself, but you won't admit it. It is also this development world for the White Country - none of it will have anything to show for it. We have lost the 3rd development axis project, which is of crucial importance for White Krajina, we have lost many projects that have already been in the national development programme. That's how the centralisation continues. And I would believe that you were serious about the provincial legislation if, on Friday, when we were really discussing a lot of time here, there was not much interest by the coalition Members to discuss, very few of you were discussing it, and we, who were here as proponents, were trying to figure out through the debate where this legislation should be complemented in order to agree on a common agreement on [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] appropriate solutions. [[...]] Since there is no political will, Slovenia will not have this law or legislation, which is bad for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u244	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to sign up again. An explanation for Anton Kampush's voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u245	Mr President, thank you for saying so. Of course, the law must be upheld. But it is true that there are many speeches today, and we have heard about the pomura law before. For the law of Pomur, I must briefly inform you that the publication in the Official Journal, that all the presentations were made, were invited by all those involved in entrepreneurship, companies and so on, and received exact information and preparations are currently under way. The projects are in preparation and we promise that already this year there will be quite a number of companies registered, i.e. those who will hire new workers in Pomurje. So I don't know what we would do with this pomur law if we were talking about a completely different law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Branko Marinič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u247	Thank you for your word. I have supported the package of provincial legislation in the previous mandate and will also support it in this. I am sure that all of us in this House want the landscape to happen, but when we have to press "for" specifically, we are somehow divided. I'm surprised how the current Minister Gjerkes finds himself in this lack of one unregulated area when no province is established. He's kind of acting like a fireman who just needs to act from the call center because of some unsustainable condition. This can be justified on the basis of the adopted development aid law to Pomura and on the urgency of participation on Friday, just as we discussed the provincial legislation, its presence in the regional development world. And, of course, here's where it shows up. It's not just Pomurje who deserves some kind of intervention law. And it's not just White Krajina and Kočevska who deserves some extra financial injection. Haloze, Slovenske Gorica, Crassus are also cities that deserve some kind of intervention or treatment. Dear colleagues and colleagues! If we do not take this seriously, but it shows that there will certainly be no landscapes in this mandate, we will find ourselves in some kind of shut-down, some kind of emergency action, which will further separate Slovenia from development instead of bringing it together. If we have adopted the Ljubljana Capital Law on an urgent basis, we have done a great deal of injustice to those places that are far from Ljubljana, so it seems right for us to support the province's legislation this time as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Marjan Bezjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u249	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! The law or package of provincial legislation must be adopted as a matter of urgency. After all, we need to know that the Law on Pomour was passed a long time ago. And this Law on Pomurje saves only one part of Pomurje, does not save Slovenian Gorica, does not save Koroška. Now Koroška is in a part like I said the last time the Mura went out, an atomic bomb went off in Prekmurje. This is also the case now that the Prevent is shutting down, the atomic bomb is not a Koro region, let alone in the Slovenian Gorica. It is urgent to support legislation 13+1 of the provinces where we will all be equal under this sun on the sunny side of the Alps. But if you don't support it, I'm afraid I'm predicting right now that we're going to build an autonomous province of Styria, and then we'll see where we are and what we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u250	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, for 25, for 45. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda - with the first reading of the draft law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on the transfer of tasks to the jurisdiction of the provinces is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, for 25, for 46 [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda - first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Financing of the Regions. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the financing of the provinces is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Zvonko Černač. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u251	Thank you very much. This law is in some way the backbone of the entire provincial legislation, and this is also based on the concept that was founded in 2003 by the then Social Democrats, who were in charge of this area. The financial operation is completely neutral. With the transfer of EUR 995 million to the provincial level of EUR 421 million from the state level and the transfer of human resources, it is possible that the landscapes can operate within the framework of the substantive concept presented in laws that you have not confirmed. For SDS, the number of provinces is not a central problem to which support or non-support to regionalisation should take place. It is simply not possible to agree to this thesis, because the problem of the small is that they are not successful, but they are large, not holding up a simple comparison. In that case, all the little state failures would be, and we know that's not the case. Even when regionalisation takes place, there is no argument, or no argument, to be able to speak of the greatest success and the smallest not. This issue must be based on efficiency, the integration of the area into the province for historical reasons and, of course, the belongings of that area, which was also demonstrated through the 2007 referendums. And this was the concept on which we built provincial legislation in the SDS and on the basis of which, in our view, this concept should continue in this mandate. If Slovenia were to be divided into provinces, we firmly believe that this developmental backlog, which we recorded in 2009, when Slovenia's gross domestic product lost almost a tenth of its value, would not have happened. Of course, part of this is that not all the funds made operationally available from the European funds have been used. I am talking about EUR 203 million in the fifth call for proposals, which did not take place in 2009. If this were to be decided by the provinces, we are firmly convinced not only that these calls would have taken place, but they would have already been incorporated into the projects. On the other hand, it is important that Slovenia be divided into provinces, also because of not being able to continuously adopt a partial solution, such as the two adopted by supplementing the Main City Act, where, without any criteria, you have allocated additional large financial resources to one municipality of 15 million and an unknown amount of euro, and on the other hand the Pomurje Act, where, despite the serious problems, all these funds have not been linked to some calls, programmes and so on and so on and Pomurje to this day one euro from this title has not been seen. This is why we will, of course, support this law in the SDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u252	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 47. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I also conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda - the first reading of the bill on elections to the province. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on elections in the provinces is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u253	The law before us is worthy of support for constitutional reasons, as the Constitution requires the establishment of provinces in the previous mandate with a high degree of consensus. So the provinces are a fact. So the question is only when they will be created and how many will be created. One of the key parts of the package is the law on elections to the provincial councils, which allows us to obtain democratically elected authorities that will run the provinces properly. This is important for substantive reasons, as many times today the province's development disturbs the various interests of individuals or only the will of the central government, as it is my Gorenjska, when the central government has taken the right to reject all the money for the Gorka project, even those members of the Gorenjska coalition have voted against themselves, which is very interesting, even mayors, but if they had the provinces, they would certainly not be able to allow themselves to do so. We would therefore release some additional development potential and the European Charter in local self-government is also talking about this. Since the province is essentially a second stage of local self-government, it should be noted that the European Charter on Local Self-Government defines local self-government as a counterweight and defence against the will of the central government. In the Slovenian case, there is another argument that may be even more important, given the situation that we have unfortunately been witnessing to for more than a year. In the Slovenian case, the establishment of the provinces on the basis of the relevant legislation will not only protect against the will of the central branch of government, but will also protect against the incompetence and inaction of the central branch of government, against the inability that we have witnessed in one of the opinions just before, which has proved that the coalition itself cannot even deal with what it wants in relation to a constitutional category such as the establishment of the provinces. If she knew how many she wanted, and if she was able to agree on the transfer of power, on the transfer of money, then, of course, SDS would not have to propose this legislation, because the Government would have already done so itself. Thus we propose this legislation as a starting point for further negotiations for the realisation of Slovenian provinces.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u254	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present. 26 votes against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure proposed by the law is terminated. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th paragraph of the agenda, which is the first reading of the bill on electoral units for elections in the first provincial council. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: the draft electoral law, the electoral units for elections in the first provincial council, is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u255	This law is written on the principle of dividing each province into a certain number of constituencies. This is of crucial importance in ensuring that different parts of the province are more evenly represented and that instead of the current pronounced centralisation, which we have witnessed for a year to the detriment of local self-government, it would not happen if we had some regional centralisation to the detriment of individual parts of the province. This law respects the principles laid down by the Constitutional Section for the establishment of constituencies, i.e. geographical roundness, historical and all other links that form the same or similar and in view of the constitutional arrangements of the relevant constituency. However, the underlying reason for his acceptance is the same as I mentioned earlier. It is the enforcement of the entire package of provincial legislation, to reach the provinces, to release some additional development potential and to prevent Slovenia from continuing to centralise. Unfortunately, the last moves of the ruling coalition, which already harm even the municipalities, such as the Municipality of Kranj, that I do not speak of all the other municipalities that are doing excellent work, all in favour of the city of Ljubljana alone. This means, in practice, that Slovenia no longer respects the principles enshrined in its Constitution and which have been respected all the time, even the previous regime, and have been the starting point for the equitable development of the whole state of Slovenia since the beginning of the independent state. I therefore understand that these laws are being rejected, but I do not understand those who, today, in the case of the so-called deleted, have already sworn to a decision by the Constitutional Court, and this is only a decision which, by the way, is also extremely controversial. In this case, however, it is precisely the principle of the Constitution itself, because the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, we have complemented by a provision which makes the provinces compulsory, which is what we are obliged to adopt. To categorically rejecting, even agreeing to find some common solutions, leaves this as a dead letter on paper and testifies to how the double criteria of the ruling coalition and with much apparent difference between her words and her actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u256	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 19th item of the agenda - the first consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Establishment of Landscapes. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law establishing the provinces is suitable for further consideration. At the same time, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, two thirds of the Members present must vote in order to adopt that law. I would like to request an application on behalf of the parliamentary groups for explanations of vote. On behalf of the parliamentary group Marijan Pojbič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u257	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the bill because we are aware of the necessity and importance of the adoption of provincial legislation [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u258	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u259	The basis for more coherent regional development would not be what is happening now, that the Ljubljana standard is 30% higher than the citizens and citizens living in Pomurje, who live in Styria, who live in Koroška, White Krajina, Savinja-Salah and so on. [[....]] The bill covers the division of Slovenia into 13 regions plus one, i.e. Ljubljana with the legal status of the region, i.e. 14. We are convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the highest possible political compromise has been reached in order to reach the province's legislation. We have taken into account the proposals made by all political groups, including the SD political groups, Mr Kontić, his group that proposed the Savinja-Salech Region, we have also taken into account the Ptuj Region proposal, which is also one of the prominent members of the LDS, Mr Celan, Mayor of Ptuj. A referendum was also held, which, in the majority and by majority votes, gave an agreement on the proposed membership, and gave a positive agreement to the proposed membership of Slovenia from the 210 municipalities of 184 municipalities. I think that this is enough quality arguments that this legislation could have been adopted if the interest of the majority in this National Assembly had been adopted. But look, at the end of the fig in your pocket, and what happened? The previous opposition, the current coalition, behaves in the same way as it did at the time. This time, too, he does not want to adopt this legislation. The key objective is clear. Like this government, like this position, if it were now, regardless of the number of regions proposed, it would not have adopted this legislation because it does not want to decentralise this country. He wants the situation to be the way it is. This is particularly the case for the Municipality of Ljubljana, Mr Jankovic, because a law was also proposed to grant him additional resources, although already Ljubljana exceeds the average by 30%, that is, a higher standard with this money, instead of going to the development of the whole country, it is therefore a matter of establishing [[...]] [[Exclusion of the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u260	Thank you very much. I request an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u261	Your Honor! It is not the case that provincial legislation is one of those rare ones for which two-thirds of the consent is required in the National Assembly. Therefore, it would probably be wise of any proposer to actually seek this two-thirds consensus. On the basis of statements demeaning and insulting the city's municipalities, I would like to say to the motioners of this law that there is something, more than a third, in this House of Members elected to the city's municipalities. You will not believe it, even in your congregation there will be one of the city’s congregations. It is true, however, that this relationship is between, so to speak, urban and non-urban or other Members, that this coefficient is the lowest in your Group of Members. Whatever the case, if such legislation were really to be adopted, it would probably apply to it to approach it in a more respectful manner, even more respectful to the people of the municipalities, not just Ljubljana. We have 11 of these in Slovenia and we also have to count with their representatives. That's not how it came to this. I also doubt that, as he has heard in his explanation of opinions, I cannot support this legislation myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Bell Lach, explanation of voice in your own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u263	Thank you very much. To speak here on your part or position to prepare provincial legislation, I think it's a shame because it's as ready as the one we've offered you will probably not be able to prepare for the end of this mandate. Moreover, what is now organised by province or region, by regional development agencies [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u264	I'm asking you to listen to me in the hall. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u265	You don't want to bring to life projects that are now ready. [[...]] You're blocking calls for ready projects, not just to open up development across individual development regions. We are already engaged in regional development councils and holy regions with problems such as regional development, then the environment and space, we know what is in the area of water drainage and water treatment, and waste management when we are driving up and down Slovenia to landfills. That there is no real policy in these areas, even though we are organised by development regions and some work well. By blocking the call for use from the development programme of the regions, which was published on 29 January, on 26 February, due to the failure of the Ministry or the control of these development plans, I think it all says that it is mainly centralisation and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Saying that you're preparing some provincial legislation is just "painting" all of us and all of those who elected us. [[...]] And I don't think that's gonna happen. It is better for the competent to deal with the realization of what is already being done [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u266	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice in your own name, Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u267	Thank you so much for saying that. I am sure that there would be no deletion of the development axis and not the deletion of the southern leg of the 3rd development axis if we had the established valley-Belkan region. Not one of the 39 saints, as far as this provincial council is concerned, would vote for it. I am also sure that there would be no removal of the Oreh development core in the central Styria province if we had a central Styrian province. Not one of those 49 saints in the province would vote for it. However, since this is not the case, the Government has removed many development projects from the resolution on national programmes for the period 2007-2013. And we are now receiving letters from the Mayor of the Municipality of Maribor, who strongly opposes the drawing of the Oreh development project in the central Styria province and, of course, the letters from the mayors of the Lower-White Subregion, which belongs to the Lower-White Area, where it protestes that the construction of the southern arm of the third development axis is nowhere to be moved. And since there is no mechanism in this country for provincial units to decide on their own development priorities, we are now faced with the problem that the Government is citing various development councils, in part for an area, somewhere with a law such as the Law on Development Assistance of the Pomeranian Region, etc. We have no comprehensive system approach. And I will therefore support this law in order to come to some ground that people in their rounded areas can decide for themselves their own priorities and the projects that are urgently needed for their future destiny and their development. I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-08-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u268	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 27 to 46. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the Assembly of the Delegated Decision has not accepted it. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 13th item of the agenda - third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act in the framework of the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Thursday, 4. 3. 2010 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the drafter, that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members, 74, against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this item of the agenda also for the 14th meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
