ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 18th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Dara Lavtišar Bebler, Melita Župevc, mag. Vasja Klavora, Miro Friday, Victory Jelinčič Noble, mag. Anton Rop, Guido Kres, mag. Branko Grims, Mirko Brulc by 12 o'clock, Willy Rezman and Dr. Vinko Gorenak from 10 a.m. to 15 p.m. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to nine. PERIOD OF THE DAY — FIRSTLY PROPOSAL OF THE GENERAL PROMOTION OF AGRICULTURAL AND ANIMAL PRODUCTS, IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the law, Robert Hrovat. The word has Robert Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary, colleagues, colleagues! Production and production, processing of agricultural and food products in Slovenia is known to be an important economic and social factor. With Slovenia's entry into the European Union, imports of agri-food products into the Slovenian market have increased so that competitive pressures on domestic suppliers have already led to a deterioration in the economic situation of certain production sectors. Slovenia's entry into the European Union, on the other hand, has also encouraged new opportunities for more intensive performance by Slovenian agri-food providers in the European Union's single market. But so far, the results are modest. We must be aware that the natural characteristics for agricultural production in Slovenia and the agri-food chain model do not allow mass and cheap production of agricultural crops and foodstuffs. An important obstacle to export penetration is often the lack of knowledge of the specificity and quality of food produced in Slovenia. Strengthening the competitiveness of domestic producers of agricultural and food products and creating new market opportunities are therefore among the key factors for the long-term development of the agro-food sector in Slovenia. Slovenian suppliers of agricultural and food products fall into the category of the smallest, of course compared to competitors from abroad. As a result, the possibility of financing activities, consumer information and promotion, which are a key element of the performance and development of this economic activity, is limited. The activities of the generic promotion to promote the sale and consumption of agricultural and food products are a stable component of public policies of developed countries. Even in the Republic of Slovenia, activities that can be classified as generic promotions have been carried out for several years, but the area needs to be fully regulated for greater efficiency. The fundamental feature of generic promotion activities is that they do not expose individual brands or producers, but that such programmes are aimed at ensuring the basic competences of consumers and thus enable qualified food choices, which is certainly in the public interest. By a non-systematic approach to generic promotion activities, Slovenian agri-food and the national economy are completely losing an important incentive to boost competitiveness and faster economic development. The proposed law regulates the planning and implementation of generic promotion of agricultural and food products in the Republic of Slovenia and lays the foundations for the implementation of generic promotion and consumer information. Through a systematic approach to generic promotion activities, Slovenian agri-food and the national economy will fully gain a significant boost to competitiveness and economic development, as the increased volume of promotion will reflect the increased consumption of the promoted product categories and will thus indirectly have a positive impact on the development of domestic agriculture and food and on the eating habits of the population. An important contribution to the proposed law is the introduction of the principle of public-private participation also in the financing of generic promotion activities. The law provides for the financing of these activities by private means arising from the compulsory contributions of the debtors, we are talking about private participation, and the resources of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to co-finance these activities, up to 50% of the total budget for promotion activities. The introduction of compulsory participation overcomes the problem of ensuring a necessary 50 % share of private capital in generic promotion programmes, as required by Community guidelines on State aid. Since the basic objective of the law is the system of planning and implementing generic promotion of agricultural and food products and informing consumers about the quality and safety of agricultural and food products in the Republic of Slovenia and because this law seeks to establish a basis for a European comparable model of generic promotion and consumer information, we expect your support in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. This will allow Slovenian agri-food and the national economy to gain a significant boost to competitiveness and economic development.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you very much for the introductory explanation of the opinion. I give my word to the government representative. The word has magic. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support this form of draft law, although it is aware of the need for a law on the promotion of food and food of Slovenian origin, because this law does not essentially solve the basic dilemmas that need to be addressed. This law only speaks of generic promotion. In Slovenia we want to create not only generic promotions that are less important, but in particular promotions through higher quality schemes, since most Slovenian food includes better quality schemes and we want to regulate them by law. This law does not govern the management of the collected money, as management cannot benefit stakeholders, it is a country contributing its share, as well as primary agricultural production and processing of agricultural products, i.e. food production. What is important here is not that we support the State institution, the Directorate for Safe Food, as the administration is not qualified to carry out such activities, but is qualified for other matters. Such a form of money collection is not in line with the current schemes we imagine. In particular, it is important to say the following. Such a promotion should also be given, and at this time the draft law on the promotion of agricultural products and food is already so ready to go 23rd, next week, for consideration by the Agriculture and Rural Council of the Republic of Slovenia. And if this world is to be drafted by the Slovenian administration, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, it means that it is going to be a draft law, which is already largely coordinated with stakeholders, this is the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, the Association Association and also with the Union of Farmers, and with the Slovenian food processing industry. This draft law, which we are preparing, is already quite harmonised, so this law will also be a suitable fence. In promoting food, we cannot afford to go into such a project in a way that we are not fully coordinated with stakeholders. Of course, we have considered whether it is possible to include in this draft law, which the drafter proposed, the solution that we have already agreed on, as it would then be a joint project, which would be in our interest, but unfortunately this structure of the draft presented does not allow for such an upgrade, and also discussions with stakeholders are not completed. Finally, allow me to thank you for the opinion you have expressed by introducing this law, and this is the opinion that a law on promotion is needed in the Slovenian space for two reasons. Firstly, because we need to tell the Slovenian consumer that the use of Slovenian food is beneficial not only for producers and processors, but for every Slovenian consumer in particular, but at the same time it is one of the competitive advantages that neighbouring countries are already exploiting and I am not yet Thank you. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! We will not support the draft law on generic promotion of agricultural and food products in the Group of Members, because we want to adopt such legislation in this area as far as possible, in accordance with European regulations, to promote the products of domestic food producers and processors. The so-called generic promotion does not permit the indication of national origin. However, reference should be made to national origin if promotion of quality schemes and voluntary indications is carried out. Slovenian producers are more interested in promoting quality schemes than in generic promotion. The next essential substantive difference between what is stated in this bill and what is needed by Slovenian producers is that we have to enable them to promote through representative organisations, not through an authority within the Ministry. The aim of the promotion is primarily to market the approach and marketing management of all brands. It would be difficult for the Directorate for Food at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to claim that it is marketing and market-efficient and, above all, capable of meeting all the challenges facing this situation in these difficult economic and financial circumstances. It is also particularly worrying that the proposal for a law seems to close the possibility of using European funds in the field of promotion. This is also a very important question, because the funds are crucial, how we will be able to carry out this promotion. And if EU funds can also help, then we must do everything we can to make this possible. It is also unclear in this law that the financing of the promotion between the country and the producers of agricultural products, their associations, food processing companies and their associations is not clear. And it is precisely this ambiguity between the relationship between how someone will influence and ensure the promotion of agricultural products and processed products that are essential for us to adopt an effective law or law that can be implemented in practice. Because of all the above-mentioned substantive shortcomings of the law, as I have said, we will not support or feel that it is not suitable for further consideration. However, we expect the Ministry of Agriculture to prepare for the Government a proposal for a law that will have a significant impact on the market for domestic products in these difficult economic circumstances, which can have a more effective impact on future economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Robert Hrovat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that again. Agriculture production in Slovenia accounts for about 77,000 farms and production of food products for about 400 companies employing about 17,000 people. And all of these are practically uncompetitive on the market. We are extremely small compared to the European Union's single market and all our neighbouring countries are investing significantly more in the promotion of food. What, in fact, is the subject of generic promotion? It combines various consumer information activities on quality and safety, including environmental protection standards and animal welfare in food production. Therefore, it does not expose individual brands or producers, but very generally all in the interests of food producers and consumers as well. As I have already said, all European Union countries have a national system for the planning and implementation of generic food and food products promotion. What do we propose in the Slovenian Democratic Party? We propose a system-wide arrangement for the planning and implementation of generic promotion of agricultural and food products. We also propose a mandatory contribution from the debtors, and the contribution rate is determined on the basis of a proposal for a promotion programme. Perhaps a little more detail about the key points themselves. We are talking about public-private participation, because generic food promotion is a relatively high cost, especially high advertising costs. Without that, there's no generic promotion. Therefore, we believe that pooling public and private resources is a good solution. The impact of the private sector on substantive planning is then gained by its weight. So those who will pay for this fund, which is being established, also have a word on how this generic promotion will be carried out. This is a systemic approach, although it has previously been said that the concept is different, I am talking about the concept of the Ministry of Agriculture and our concept, but nevertheless this proposal certainly promotes competitiveness and ensures economic development. Finally, the result of all this would certainly be greater consumption of Slovenian food and better development of domestic agriculture and food. We have envisioned this public-private contribution in such a way that 50% is covered by the state from its own budget and 50% is the private capital of those interested in it. Who would be the hostage? The debtors would be all those natural persons, independent entrepreneurs and legal persons who produce food or food in Slovenia. We have established a base for natural persons cadastral income, for independent entrepreneurs the profit from the activity and for legal persons shown added value. Our proposal is based on the upgrading of the Directorate for Safe Food within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Why did we decide to do so? Because it already controls the safety and quality of agricultural and food products. From now on, this Directorate would also carry out development and professional tasks in this area and would also support all information activities. We therefore believe that such a solution would be appropriate. As far as the systemization of the programming principle is concerned, so far activities in the field of generic promotion are only uncommon and are without any continuity. That is why we are proposing a basic document that we have called the generic promotion strategy. It would be accepted by the Government and in it would be all substantive and financial points. Of course, then an annual implementation document should also be produced, so I am talking about a generic promotion programme. Here, however, we would define activities more precisely and create clear priorities that are most important. As far as the financial implications are concerned. We have foreseen a million euros in 2012 from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and about a million euros would be collected from the debtors, from those who would invest in the fund we are talking about. To make it easier to imagine what this means compared to our neighbouring countries. In Austria, they have 50 people working exclusively in this area, i.e. in promoting generic food promotions, while the budget has 20 million euros. Italy is earmarking €50 million from the budget. Hungary has 35 employees and spend about €6 million each year on generic food promotion. Germany spends 100 million euros a year. France has quite 300 employees, not only in France, but also in other countries, in 34 other countries involved in promoting their own brands. They spend about €55 million on this. If we only listen to these numbers, then we can imagine where the Slovenians are and how well our products are known around the world, how much we are committed to this. So far, we've practically committed nothing. We now propose that this is a matter of system regulation and that funds are allocated for it, of course in the light of the programme prepared by the Government. There are very different forms of action across Europe. Everywhere this is a combination of public funds and private capital. That is why we have also proposed this way in our proposal. We are very small, so there is much more to be done at the promotion. The government's opinion, which I received and read this morning, says it's two different concepts. Yes, I suppose so, but I think it would be possible and proper for this marriage to be upgraded, today is the first reading to discuss the content itself and finally find common solutions that would lead to our products being significantly more recognizable in the European Union or in the world. But it's not that much for Europe, it's also a domestic market. Even in the domestic market, foreign producers, suppliers are significantly more aggressive than we are ourselves, than we would be ashamed of our own food, which is certainly quality and good and should be done to make this Slovenian food more consumed. At the hearing of the new minister, Mr Židan, this promotion of Slovenian food was a key or main topic, and I am pleased that the Minister has highlighted this in such a way and I see that he has also joined the drafting of his own law, namely the law of the Ministry of Agriculture, which will obviously have a slightly different concept. But I think we're all basically thinking the same thing. More needs to be done to promote. That is why I propose, given that this first reading is that the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party be supported, goes into further consideration and then upgraded with an amendment form. I think that there is no big difference in what is in the Government's opinion and what we have written down, so it would be possible to bring the matter to some common point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u10	Nice greeting, Mr. President-respected. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! The proposal for a law on generic promotion of agricultural and food products has been the subject of a number of Slovenian agricultural ministers for a long time and I think there has been an increasing awareness in the European and Slovenian spaces that food security is one of the strategic directions of each country. This food safety means that, for the first time, there is sufficient food for this food to be healthy and affordable. When we talk about this food safety in Slovenia, we see that this level of self-sustainment in recent years, which has been falling, is already at great risk, and that there is definitely something to be done to ensure that Slovenian food also comes into force, that the Slovenian consumer becomes even more attached to the food produced in Slovenia. Certainly, the generic promotion law is also one of the tools for preparing circumstances in which such food will also get its place with the Slovenian consumer. At the time of the creation of this law, a number of negotiations took place between the partners involved in this law. On the one hand, these partners are primarily food producers, whether they are farmers, farmers and, on their behalf, they have always represented the positions of representatives of the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber and the Farmers' Union. A very important partner in this law is also Slovenian food processing companies, which also produce large quantities of food produced in Slovenia. They also come directly to the food market and agricultural products. However, the third partner, which is very important, is certainly the country or, on its behalf, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In these negotiations a number of such key dilemmas have occurred. And the fact that these dilemmas have not been fully clarified is, to the greatest extent, the reason that this law has not come before on the parliamentary bench and has been proposed by the Government. These dilemmas, which have always been the subject of these debates, are the following. The first is how to raise funds from farmers, agricultural enterprises, the food processing industry in a fair manner, it is said that they will participate in the collection of these funds primarily those who can expect the benefits of this law are the food growers themselves. This is a question of whether the contribution is based on the cadastral income collected by the tax administration, as proposed in the law that we have today on the table, or whether it is the basis for collecting this contribution to sell products, it is said to be linked to a kilogram of meat, to a litre of milk, to a kilogram of fruit or as specified. This is the first dilemma that has separated all the time I must say that I know the views of food producers who tend to make a productive contribution, but not to introduce a new tax on Slovenian farmers with such a law. [[..]] The second dilemma that separated or divided opinions was who would manage the money. Will this be the same as in this law, where this is supposed to be the Directorate for Safe Food through the budget fund, where the Ministry is essentially managing this fund, the Government's work programme. It's one way that's possible. Another, with which food producers and the food-producing industry more agreed, is that this money management would be given to someone who is also engaged in marketing and is closer to this customer, so it would not be a government, ministerial service, but it would be another form in which the programme would be produced and in fact those most interested would also play a major role in this part of the promotion of Slovenian food. At the time when this debate took place in these government circles and with these partners, we can say that in Slovenia we are witnessing one, in my opinion and in my opinion a very good action organised in the framework of the Chamber of Agricultural and Food Companies, this is an action Buy Slovenia, which we have also had the power to know in the State Council, where the operators of this action have also presented it. And also the experience of this action suggests in this direction that there is a need for a consistent continuous approach here, and in fact this action can be led by those who also manage it and ultimately have certain benefits and indirectly also by Slovenian farmers. Unfortunately, this action has not yet been joined by another, that it is a Chamber of Agricultural and Food Companies. Those companies that have joined this action are once again lonely riders, I think we have a lot more to learn from this, I believe, very quality action and also responses that are also taking place in Slovenian supermarkets, this year in Mercator, have somehow answered that the Slovenian consumer appreciates Slovenian food and needs to do something about it. In the Slovenian People's Party, we expect from the Ministry and partners that now that I have this information, that these discussions are taking place and that the level of this consensus is significantly greater than in the past, that partners, together with the Ministry, should prepare such a law as soon as possible, with which they will agree, a law which, if I may say so, will be adopted as theirs both in that part when they agree on how they will raise funds, as well as in the second part, how they will promote quality Slovenian food through this law. And here I think that this opportunity, which has already been mentioned by the Minister today, is particularly within the framework of quality schemes to find Slovenian food, which is, unlike many who appear on Slovenian shelves, a significantly higher quality class, produced in the environment and to people in a friendly way, and I think that this is the path that should be taken to promote Slovenian food and also to pool the public resources of the Ministry, as well as the resources of those who collect these funds. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also oppose such a promotion being led by one of the Directorates within the Ministry, but we think and firmly believe that promotion will be significantly better managed by those who are not in these bureaucrat services, but who are engaged in direct production and also in marketing of these products, so that some different forms will be more appropriate. We also propose that the draft law follows that the basis for the payment of the contribution is food, that the basics are products produced and not some new tax, as is the case in this law in terms of the share of the cadastral income of the profit tax, but that the partners actually agree on this matter. In the Slovenian People's Party, we expect the Ministry, together with the partners, to prepare a law that will be coordinated between them as soon as possible. Since we believe that it is right to have a law drawn up there and that it is harmonised there, we will not support this proposal for a law on generic promotion of agricultural and food products, which we now have in consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u11	The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law on generic promotion of agricultural and food products is as follows. This is a proposal for a law aimed at providing the applicant with a system of planning and implementing generic promotion of agricultural and food products and informing consumers about the quality and safety of agricultural and food products in Slovenia. The law provides, inter alia, for the mandatory contribution of the debtors. Obligations to pay a compulsory contribution to the promotion fund would be natural and legal persons engaged in the production of agricultural products for the purpose of their sale, as well as natural and legal persons engaged in the sale of food products for the purpose of their sale. They are expected to contribute 50% of the funding for promotion activities and up to 50% of the state budget. In the first year of application of the law, that is, 2012, the country is expected to contribute a million euros, and this sum is expected to increase later in line with the simultaneous increase in the amount to be contributed by the private sector. The applicants state that they want to ensure a systematic approach to generic promotion activities through the proposed law, which aims to ensure that Slovenian agro-food and the national economy are fully encouraged by competitiveness and, of course, economic development. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with the Government's view that the legal solutions to the promotion of agricultural and food products should be based on the achievement of the main objectives that aim to systematically regulate the planning, financing and implementation of generic promotions and also the promotion of quality schemes and voluntary indications. The aim of this kind of promotion should certainly be to promote and inform as much as possible so that Slovenian food producers and processors can benefit from this. In the proposal before us, promotion of quality schemes and voluntary designations is not envisaged, which is, according to our assessment, essential for the promotion of Slovenian production. It is also not clear from the proposal for a law how much the general promotion of contributions should be financed and how much the state budget would contribute to it. As one of the objectives of this Act should also be that producers of agricultural products and their associations, food-processing companies and their associations and the state should also be involved in the planning and implementation of the promotion, they would expect that the proposal for a law would also define the way in which participation is to be carried out. The proposal, with the exception of fundamental principles, does not specify the concrete implementation of this principle. Nor does the proposal provide for additional professional strengthening of the Directorate for Food Safety within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which would be necessary for the successful implementation of this proposal. In this way, personnel should be provided for strategic planning of promotion activities, such as experts in market research and marketing management of general national quality schemes in terms of brand management. At the same time, it should be noted that the proposal for a law is based on regulations of the European Union which are not currently in force. Otherwise, from the debate and also from the Minister's presentation, we see that there are only a small difference between the proposers and the Ministry in terms of how this is dealt with, so it seems more appropriate for us to wait for the Ministry to draw up both laws and to support the law proposed by the Government or the Ministry. The parliamentary group of this proposal will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on generic promotion of agricultural and food products should gradually enable the establishment of a generic promotion system and be comparable to the most efficient models in developed countries. Everything's fine and fine. The Ministry is also preparing a proposal for a law on generic promotion, which will help inform and educate consumers about food quality and safety, environmental protection standards and animal welfare in future food production more effectively. The activities of generic promotion are about providing consumers with basic knowledge of the quality of agricultural and food products, and in particular about the provision of up-to-date information, which is in the public interest. Such activities will help to raise consumer awareness and consequently improve the market situation of producers providing quality agricultural, food products. The bill itself provides for the establishment of a public agency which is expected to employ 7 to 10 people, of whom it will be part of the overemployed staff from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The financing of generic promotion activities will be ensured by pooling private and public resources, as required by the European Union's sectoral rules. The Agency's target budget is set at an amount, as I see here from the proposal, at EUR 5 million per year, which should be the minimum for such institutions, with a gradual growth planned to the Agency's budget target. As far as this target was concerned, it was not possible to understand. Although we have heard comparable amounts from the proposer today, I think it does not matter for our scope of agricultural production and our options far too ambitious. Private resources will be provided through the contribution of agricultural holdings and the food processing industry, setting a high threshold and a relatively low level of contribution. Half the funding for the programmes will be provided through the Slovenian budget. Besides, we'll talk about funding later. Production and processing of agricultural and food products in Slovenia is actually an important economic social factor, although we find that self-sustainment is already falling below the critical limit, now below 40% as we know it. About 80,000 farms are involved in agricultural production, and about 400 companies, which also employ around 17,000 people, as we have heard today. With Slovenia's entry into the European Union and its integration into the single market, the situation in the food markets has changed significantly. The opening of the Slovenian market, which was protected by a relatively high level of customs duties in most agri-food groups towards accession, triggered an increase in imports of agri-food products. These changes were felt by domestic suppliers and also by consumers. Domestic suppliers face strong competitive pressures on the domestic market. Consumers are exposed to intensive promotion activities. If I return now to that part of the proposal or to those articles where we have the most concerns or reservations in the Slovenian National Party and should consider this in further consideration and perhaps find a better solution. This is mainly Article 11 when it comes to funding the Fund under the Agency, and Article 12 itself, this is collecting contributions from Durs. Among the pledges, the proposer here lists several categories from A1 to A4, B1, B2, but I have the feeling that those basic bearing categories are those of the natural persons involved in the production of agricultural products for the purpose of their sale. It is therefore mainly for all farmers, all food producers, because it is clear that they produce food for sale if at least that much can be produced. This group is also expected to bear the largest share of funding for this fund and to be based on the cadastral income of agricultural land, which is to be determined for the previous year on the basis of the rules on the determination of cadastral income. The contribution rate is here, and so is the proposalr, and 2% of the base, and the entry price is €400. This is exactly what our party disagrees with about the proposal, as far as funding is concerned. Again, the additional burden of already a poor Slovenian farmer, except for some of those large farmers to whom it would not represent, I do not know what kind of expenditure. What I have heard today is also the option of paying a contribution on the basis of the realisation of agricultural production itself for individual producers of agricultural products, in a way, it would be more fair and more acceptable than some obligation on the basis of the cadastral income itself. I doubt that the Slovenian farmer can overcome any additional burden, although this proposal is a law, the promotion itself makes sense, and indirectly the farmer himself will benefit from this promotion if he is supervised by the relevant professional staff and will have some effect. In the Slovenian National Party, we have in particular reservations about the organisation or funding of the Fund and we expect a better solution in future, and we will then give our position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues, welcome! The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia on the proposal for a law on generic promotion of agricultural and food products is as follows. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are saddened by the fact that the law on generic promotion of agricultural crops and food products has been born for more than ten years. In our opinion, the blame is shared between all factors in agriculture and the food processing industry. The last failed attempt took place at the end of the former government's mandate when the legal solutions were strongly opposed by farmers' organisations. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the main objective of such a law should be to improve the information of domestic consumers on production and processing and on the quality, safety, specific characteristics and nutritional benefits of Slovenian agricultural and food products. It should be noted that only Slovenian agricultural and food products will be promoted. The essence of generic promotion is that it does not expose individual brands or manufacturers, so we share the view that an institution or, for example, the Directorate for Safe Food or a special agency or a third party should become a trade mark of Slovenian food. The functioning generic promotion system with a stable and sufficient source of funding will, in our view, make an important contribution to improving the situation of Slovenian agriculture and the food processing industry. Today, the promotion of Slovenian agricultural crops and food products is fragmented and non-systematic, which also applies to the actions of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development in the field of the promotion of the sale of Slovenian agricultural products and foodstuffs. The sad situation in this area should be illustrated by the following data. The funds we have spent in recent years to carry out promotional activities for Slovenian agricultural and food products have not exceeded millions of euros annually. According to a bill drawn up by the agricultural ministry under the leadership of former Minister Iztok Jarc, about €7 million would be raised annually in line with the generic promotion, but the way in which financial obligations were distributed was opposed by farmers' organisations. According to the proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, this spring, it is expected to be a generic promotion of almost once less money after the 2008 version. However, the proposal under consideration does not specify the level of funds. And now to the point. According to some data, only the dairy giant Danone invested approximately EUR 5 million in a year to promote its products on the Slovenian market. A comparison that does not need to be further commented. If we want Slovenian agriculture and the Slovenian food processing industry to do well, we need to find all acceptable solutions as soon as possible, provide a stable and sufficient source of funding, adopt legislation as soon as possible, and launch a generic promotion of Slovenian agricultural crops and food products. In our view, there is no room for party-gathering political points in the final implementation of this project, of which we hope, at least so. Political parties should not be key to this project, but should be factors in agriculture and the food processing industry. In our view, the fundamental flaw in the bill under consideration is the fact that we do not know what the legal solution is being considered by those who are supposed to be primarily targeted and will be largely financed by generic promotion. At the same time, the legal solutions in the proposal under consideration are suspiciously similar to those contained in one of the older working versions of the law prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which is now significantly improved. And the last. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will also take into account the Ministry's rejection of the proposal for a law and the fact that the party, the proposer, had the opportunity to adopt the law when they led the government and did not perform these tasks. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are convinced that the primary responsibility for the early legal solution of the area of generic promotion of agricultural crops and food products at the current management of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and consequently the Government. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we expect the Ministry to complete its work on its proposal for a law as soon as possible and to finalize it with its partner in the field of agriculture and the food processing industry. We also expect a public commitment that the Government will forward the draft law to the legislative process as soon as possible. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will not support the proposal for a law on generic promotion of agricultural and food products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Bogdan Barovich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! I basically welcome the idea of talking about Slovenian food. I must say that the term "generic" bothers me, I would say about the Slovenian original promotion of agricultural and food products. Another time. In the implementation of the representatives of the parties in the positions of the members of the groups, we have also heard concerns about the possibility of obtaining or not obtaining European funds. Here, too, I support such a proposal for a law, because the truth, in other words, is spoken, but most people did not understand that all the agricultural subsidies given by Europe are given only for one purpose, so that you do not produce that food. Europe wants, I don't know, apples grown in Bavaria for most of Europe, I think of course. and thereby systematically destroy, at least in my opinion, even indigenous or original food or food products that are typical of a country. In addition, we need to know something else that food is actually energy. And as the rule is, it is good that each country seeks energy self-sufficiency, in a transferable sense also means that it is essential for Slovenia to strive for food adequacy or even more so that this original promotion of agricultural and food products is visible both at home and abroad. In all these respects, I personally support such a proposal of the law. Of course, it is perfectly understandable that we cannot always have the country as a dairy cow and that the funds must be designed so that everyone who has one of these will also contribute to it. It is indeed what my colleague from the Slovenian National Party has pointed out that the envisaged method of financing or charging this fund is questionable. In view of the part that burdens the farmer, whether the current situation or whether in general the farmer is capable of or will be able to co-finance the so-called Slovenian origin promotion of agricultural and animal products. He'd probably be ready to do that if he had something out of it, so he'd have a little bit more than he'd give. This is also the question that raises doubts or why one wonders how to act: Whether to uphold this law or not. Okay, we've heard that there's a different law in preparation that the government is supposed to make. And I wonder personally whether this marriage will really be different and in what way it will be different. In the ten years I have been in the National Assembly, I have heard from both sides that there will be no mistake, from opposition and coalition, many times when someone proposes the law. It's nice of you to propose it, but we in the government already have a more comprehensive, more perfect preparation. But many times, this has been said many times, it has happened that we have never seen such laws again. You know, remember all the promises that now we're going to make another marriage, and in two years or half a year, you know, whether they made it in government or not, it's a little bit doubtful. Basically, I personally welcome the initiative, I welcome this initiative for the Slovenian origin of the promotion of agricultural and food products as well as all other objectives. It's questionable, as I said before, funding. Really. I would expect that, at times, with one content already given in the form of a law and with a proposal or with a draft to be created, both sides would meet and reconcile what is good on the one hand and on the other, that it will ultimately be the goal of this law, whether it will be the government or the SDS, that Slovenia will gain something, that the Slovenian originality of food products will gain something and that we will enable the Slovenian farmer to revive this activity and that we can be happy in Slovenia, that we have it and that we know that we care for the satisfaction of the Slovenian people with excellent health and home food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Robert Hrvat has the word as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u20	Thank you very much again. Look, I'm glad we all speak the same language or we all speak the same language. Something needs to be done to promote Slovenian food. Now I'm going to make it very simple. There's something we need to do. I'm not saying that nothing has been done at the Ministry of Agriculture at this time. Yes, I believe they've been working at the Food Security Directorate, but it's not enough. There's more to be done. That is why we also propose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. When I listened to the views of the parliamentary groups, we're actually different in nuances, in nuances. I think, after all, that this amendment law could be amended in such a way as to be acceptable to everyone. Let us remember that we have also adopted laws where more than 60% of the articles have been amended, even in this mandate this is happening several times. And there is no problem that these 15 articles or 16, as far as it is, we will change the amendments so that we will all be satisfied. See, once again, what is really going on in the generic food promotion. It is about informing consumers about food quality and safety, environmental protection standards and animal welfare in food production. That's what I think is clear to everyone and everyone. If we approach this way, it will also make it much easier for the consumer to decide on domestic food. Before that, my colleague said that I knew about Danone, too, and he invested EUR 5 million in Slovenia. Do you know what that is? Then we wonder why they don't eat our yogurts, why there is no greater demand and greater sales of our own products. We don't do anything at home to promote our food, let alone abroad. What has been said is that we will now ensnare farmers or food growers, etc. Listen, there's nothing without it. I think it is in the interest of those who produce food, that they are under a common brand, that they go with a promotion, that it is a joint promotion and that there is a sale and added value after all. If that's not the case, if we just wait for the government to give money, look at the budget and you'll see. There's no money in the budget. And if we don't go together to set up some fund from which these funds could be drawn for this promotion, then there will be nothing. If we really expect only what the government will give, then let's forget all this. When I read the government's opinion on this marriage of ours, where we differ. We differ in this concept around quality schemes or generic promotions. In the government's view, Slovenian producers are more interested in promoting quality schemes than in generic promotions, so the government is committed to establishing mass quality schemes in Slovenia that would include most Slovenian products with slightly higher quality standards What does this mean? Does this mean that this will only be done for the electorate, or does this mean that this will also be done for that small farmer who is producing and selling possibly on the market, on the market, wherever he sells? Not to be forgotten about those small farmers that are large in Slovenia. I'm talking small, I'm not talking about these conglomerates that produce food a lot, let's say from the company that you've been to before, so that we don't forget those that are smaller. There's a difference in funding. You are telling us that it is not clear how and at what level the contribution of the State as provided for in Article 10 should be determined. It's the least of your problems. We can make a deal. With the amendment, let us resolve the matter and there will be no problem. Next, as you point out, the implementation of these promotion activities. We have said that this should be at the Directorate for Safe Food, you argue that it should be professionally strengthened with personnel for strategic planning, including with experts in the field of market research, marketing management, general national quality schemes in terms of the performance of the trade mark. Of course, that's normal, but how are we gonna be different? If we're just gonna say, "How should we strengthen this job?" Then there'll be nothing. Why don't we give them a boost? We do have all the options, in fact, you have them at the Ministry of Agriculture. Why don't we do it? As far as the difference is concerned. The differences are the ones I've just mentioned. There are no others. If we can't coordinate this in the next phase, in the second reading, then I don't know how we imagine it. I think there's another problem here. I hope that the rejection of this law, which you have actually announced to all the parliamentary groups, is not at the expense of being the proponent of the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have repeatedly been informed that we are forcing some of the laws that the Government is already preparing and will systematically regulate certain areas. Now I'm just going to give you one example. Remember the agricultural land law. In July 2009, we submitted it as the Slovenian Democratic Party. At that time, we were informed that we had made a copy of a law prepared by the Government. It is now June 2010, but there is still no law. He's still gone. And that's what my colleague Barovic warned about. We're talking about how we're going to settle the system thing, and then it's standing there in the drawer, just that the matter goes through and we're moving on, just like we've had before. The last deadline in the government was even March 11th to be accepted. He's still gone. So he can't take it if we're going to do some copying. At the time we were accused of copying something, but we did not come from the needs of farmers and farmers. Something else about the additional burden on the farmer or the manufacturer of Slovenian food. Once again, I'm saying there's nothing without it. If there's no cartridge, there can't be a promotion. It's similar in the economy. Why do economists join larger groups: to make it easier to perform together in the market with the same brand. And that's the intention of proposing. That's what we want. You really don't have to look at this law like that, because the candidate is the Slovenian Democratic Party and we're going to reject it. They're shoving us out with some laws all the time. It's a reflection of our work. Take this as you like. I think it is right that the opposition also proposes what we think is right. I believe, given that you have all announced that this law will not be passed, it will not be released for further consideration, I really expect the law you are predicting, Mr Minister, to be here as soon as possible. Because otherwise everything you said at the hearing on your mother's work body will turn out somewhere.This is actually going to help you and all food producers in Slovenia to do something together for promotion. [[...]] Like now, it's nothing. I've talked earlier about countries that surround us, how much money they spend on promotion. We are talking about a million euros. We have to use this million euro or two million or these few million to convince the Slovenian consumer that it is Slovenian food. We'll find it hard to convince Austria to drink our milk, to eat, I don't know what. That's gonna be hard. But it really is necessary to make an effort to make the Slovenian eat Slovenian food. That must be our goal. This can also be achieved by the law we are proposing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is by Janez Ribič [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary! The promotion of agricultural and food products is certainly necessary. However, the proposal for a law is too weak to be accepted in such a form. We are opposed to the proposed method of raising funds for promotion and, at the same time, the establishment of a public promotion agency is probably unnecessary. The basic disadvantage of the law is the fact that the proposal to Slovenian farmers only takes place without further having any positive effect on the business of farms. The generic promotion law aims to improve consumer information on food quality and safety, environmental protection standards and animal welfare in food production. In the Slovenian People's Party, however, we well know that farmers have invested most of their income in these standards over the last five years, and it seems foolish to us that they will still have to represent them to consumers. We believe that this type of activity should be more financed from other sources. We also find it controversial that the contribution to the promotion from farmers is collected through the cadastral income, since it is by its definition something completely different, such as the basis for raising funds for promotion. The generic promotion concerns information on the nutritional benefits of individual agricultural products and their recommended consumption of meat or milk, for example. Such promotion should therefore not include, in accordance with European rules, an indication of the origin of the product, brands or individual producers, so the effect of the adoption of the generic promotion law could also be to increase the sales of foreign food brands in Slovenia. As we have already mentioned, the establishment of various agencies does not seem to be worth mentioning, since the promotion of agricultural and food products could be carried out by a department within the framework of the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, which would also lead the base and other ongoing matters for this department. Otherwise, we know that the draft law, which has been being discussed for more than 10 years, is currently being coordinated within a broader working group, which is also composed of representatives of interested groups of farmers and the food processing industry and the Ministry of Finance. Discussions revolve mainly around two issues: how much resources should be allocated to generic promotion itself and how much quality schemes are so-called. As far as we know, farmers representing the primary sector are particularly interested in strengthening quality schemes as much as possible. However, these include the promotion and promotion of the sale of agricultural and food products with certain superstandards, which also bear personal indications in accordance with the criteria, such as a national or European eco-generation and processing mark. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we would certainly agree more with the latter proposal and therefore we hope that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, together with the working group, will prepare a systematic and harmonised law on the promotion of agricultural and food products as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Unfortunately, the Slovenian state has been treating Slovenian farmers very, very stepmotherly all the time. And apparently, it is also intended for the future that he does not intend to change this relationship as farmers would like to expect. Above all, this would be beneficial for all — farmers and also Slovenia. We are one of the few European countries that have a relatively clean nature, we do not have pollution like in other countries, and this is the key advantage that could be used in food production and processing. Farmers working in agriculture today have major problems with the sale of their products. They're in big trouble. Whether they're big or small farmers. Why? Because we have many products from other European countries on the shelves, not least from other continents. And I'm afraid that we probably haven't been able to find out yet, not only in Slovenia, but in general, or that food coming from one continent doesn't have any negative effects on human health itself. I can tell myself that I never buy food in a grocery store that is not of Slovenian origin. Even if it is from Italy, if it is from Austria, if it is from Germany, I do not buy it because, for the first time, I want to promote agriculture of Slovenia, and for the second time mainly because it does not come from Slovenia. And our farmers, as I said, have big problems because in stores their food is too expensive because wholesalers are not willing to pay that much because they get it from Australia, South America and other countries. But that's bad. I am firmly convinced that Slovenian consumers would be more aware, because awareness usually increases with the level of education, but people are willing to give their health everything we have. And if Slovenian consumers were more aware, they would be willing to pay slightly more for Slovenian food. For the first time it tastes better, for the second time it is more quality and not least it is even more impeccable. If we look at each other in their own environment, we see that certain farmers or food growers can survive. They can survive with hard work and with a lot of work and relatively poor earnings. But how do they survive? With the help of cooperatives where they are successful there, they connect and also try to promote their food. I can speak specifically for Dolenjska, where those agricultural cooperatives that have helped farmers have done much to promote food, and this Slovenian food, and have also managed to put them into large trading systems in this way. Then we have farmers who promote their own food, and they also have a sale at home. Very often now we meet with so-called dairy farmers, where they get farmers three times or even four times more for a litre of milk than they would get from dairy., But this is a great cost for farmers, their own stake because they realize that without such a cartridge they will not be able to sell their food or what they produce. And so here to say that this solution, which is in law, that even producers contribute something to the promotion of this Slovenian food, would not be acceptable to them, I do not think this is entirely true. Any farmer, I am sure, from the smallest to the greatest, would be willing to contribute something, for this cost would certainly be returned to him in a very short time by selling his food. Slovenian consumers are ready, as I said, to pay more for good, quality food. Tourism is highly developed in our environment. As I know, tourists who are in hotels where they spend their holidays are happy to look for farms where it is possible to buy Slovenian food, from meat products to honey, to wine, to everything. And they're willing to pay substantially, substantially more. Of course, those who are concerned may also be able to promote a little. Therefore, such a law as we have now proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, I think it is a step towards this process being systematically regulated. And here again this excuse that the Government will prepare a comprehensive or systemic plan with the agency, and with everything that belongs here, I'm afraid, I'm really afraid that we're going to wait a long time for this, and that the effect is not going to be what it should be. I'm really afraid we're not gonna make it. Therefore, a law that is not so extensive in terms of articles can be improved without any difficulty and corrected, especially by making it possible for him to come to life in the shortest possible time. Farmers, they'll be very grateful to you. ‘ A survey can also be made here, and we will see that farmers are interested in such aid or in such solutions as to promote themselves systematically. I am very much in an environment where I have the opportunity to talk to farmers, they are all, for example, bitter about how stepmotherly we treat them, how we do not allow them to survive with their work. Why do we grow agricultural land? Why? Because farmers are not worth working on their lands, they prefer to let them have forests, etc., instead of producing the most quality food on such a land, which is certainly unpolluted, unpolluted. Therefore, I firmly believe that such an excuse as can be heard again today by the parliamentary groups, including the Government, is not correct, is not just and is particularly harmful to the future. And I believe that if this law is to be rejected, it will be necessary to go back to the procedure with such a proposal, if not the other, to at least accelerate these efforts to really do something in this area. And as I said, if the Slovenian consumer is aware that he will have quality food, which will actually contribute to better health, to better condition, he will be willing to pay more. And here I think the role should be not only of the Ministry of Agriculture but also of the Ministry of Education. There should be a common strategy here, a joint action to promote Slovenian food in primary schools, in secondary schools. I believe that, given that we are in the European Union, we cannot favour Slovenian food with other administrative measures. But if we go with education, with the awareness of people, we can achieve such a goal very quickly and thus really take advantage of this competitive advantage that other countries envy us. Slovenian honey is one of the most quality in the world, and today, as we can see, we have major problems with beekeepers. Likewise, we do not behave well enough in this area, allowing illicit or harmful starches to be used, and all that farmers use to produce their food. And here, Mr. Secretary, surely is your responsible role. I hope that what you have also said in your address at the hearing is that you will also try to realize this role, despite the fact that probably some parliamentary groups here will not always support you with such good ideas, but it is worth trying it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I only have two minutes, I'm sorry. I would still return to Article 11, which is to say the funding of the Contributing Rates Fund. You know what I miss? I miss what I said about the Group's position at the outset, one financial analysis. All of these contribution rates, as set out by the applicants, are likely to have been calculated or considered somewhere. This is equal to 2% of the base of the cadastral income, for example, or for the first group A1, then 0.7 of the contribution rate for the group that shows the profit from carrying out the agricultural activity not to list all. And you've probably also actually come to some kind of calculation. Now I can guess, because I don't know, I don't have this input data so I can finally get at least some calculation of the resources that would flow into this fund. I can only guess.For example, if we are based on a group of EUR A1,400 of cadastral income, the basis is to say, this would mean a minimum of EUR 8 for one farmer. If there were 70 grand, that would mean half a million. But that's not necessarily because not everyone has only 400, it's over. That doesn't tell me how much money's gonna come together. Then the other groups B1 and B2 are also 0.7%, 0.1%. There is no way that I can calculate how much money would have been collected so that this fund and this promotion would not have cost more than the possible results. Another thing I miss about the proposal is the opinion or assessments, the position of the Agricultural Chamber or the Farmers' Union. Finally, these are also most actively involved in this agricultural policy and it would be good to obtain this for further consideration so that we can then make a reasonable decision on this. This is what we expect at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Love Lycar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Food is certainly of strategic importance for each country and it is important that it is produced as much as possible at home and that this food is as quality, safe and affordable as possible. The agricultural production and food processing industry are related articles in the agri-food chain that satisfy one of the basic human needs. This is a need for safe and healthy food. The situation for agricultural production has changed considerably with the accession of the EU. Offerers from EU Member States, as well as from third countries, are pressing us with an aggressive supply of their products, which sometimes, at least as far as safety and quality are concerned, are questionable. In recent years we have witnessed various attempts to promote in Slovenia, but these have been quite scattered and uneven. And because of the increasingly difficult situation both in agriculture and in the food industry, in my view, activities need to be geared towards more efficient pooling of the funds now dispersed for the generic promotion of domestic agricultural and food products. It is also necessary to ensure an environment where the food chain achieves the desired results by promoting what it produces and invests in is referred to as standards, quality and sustainable development. In the SDS Group, we have decided to put the proposed generic promotion bill into the parliamentary procedure because we are aware of the need for a systematic approach to generic promotion activities and because this will encourage Slovenia's agri-food and the Slovenian economy in general to competitiveness and faster economic development. The competitiveness of domestic agricultural producers and the creation of new market opportunities are key factors in the long-term development of the agricultural-food sector. And the objective of the proposal is to organise, at systemic level, the planning and implementation of the generic promotion of agricultural and food products and the provision of information to consumers on the quality and safety of these products. I support the envisaged solutions to the bill. This is an institutional upgrade, the establishment of a substantive and financial framework, and also, although at first glance it seems less attractive, the introduction of the contribution of agricultural producers and food processing companies, as well as the contribution of the State to the planning of the financing of generic promotion activities. I agree that the financial analysis is flawed. I am confident, however, that the second reading of the financial salary will be able to supplement, which means how much income is generated on the basis of the cadastral income, on the basis of profits, and then an approximate estimate is made of how much of this contribution would be made to this fund. It also seems very important to me that the solutions do not provide for the creation of a new agency, but, in terms of rationality, the proposal for regulation is based on a solution where the Directorate for Food Safety is being upgraded within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, whose task is already to improve the safety and quality of agricultural and food products. After adoption, if this law were adopted, it would also carry out development and professional tasks in this field of public interest. The aim of the bill is to ensure that the Directorate for Food Safety within the Ministry of Agriculture takes over the promotion activities and to concentrate the dispersed resources that individual members of the agri-food chain already devote to the generic promotion of their products. I think that the Slovenian economy, agriculture and the food industry need the solution provided for by this bill and that, with the help of the country, we develop market opportunities, promote competitive advantages and higher quality. Therefore, I propose that we support the proposal in the first reading, upgrade it, if necessary, during the course of the procedure, and thus get some quality law that will satisfactorily regulate this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u29	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! We probably all agree that something fundamental must be done in the area of agriculture. The number of agricultural holdings is falling down, we have a fragmented parcel structure, we have a declining share of self-sustainment in food consumption, we have a growing cultural and cultivated landscape. The vast majority of indicators, if not almost all indicators, are negative in agriculture. They are one that leads to a radical reduction in cultural landscapes, production capacities, degradation or reduction of agricultural surfaces. The only thing that works is the blockade of spatial plans, where many government officials, without doing anything on the other hand for these problems that I have warned about, are blocking the acceptance of spatial plans of local communities. This is an effective mechanism for the exhaustion of agricultural land owners. I think that the state in this area should do more on this proactive side in order to offer measures to take advantage of what Slovenia currently has in the sector, which is in great difficulty, which in fact cannot exercise any competitive advantage. This is a relatively high quality environment, generally seen in the European scale, and the resulting relatively high quality or high quality production of agricultural crops, agricultural products. Unfortunately, we see that there is not really a lot going on in this area and there is not much going on in any of these areas. The only thing that works so far is the sharing of agricultural subsidies for those who are active enough and who do what in this area. However, even all these incentives, which are in fact the transfer of European funds in the vast majority of cases, do not help to prevent negative trends from stopping in order to turn in a positive direction. It is said that Slovenia would create several agricultural products in this quality area of Europe and that it would also be able to market these products if not across the border because we are small and at least at home. We are left to the influence, the enormous impact of foreign competition. The large houses that came to Slovenia also brought with them their exclusive suppliers. There are few and few in these large foreign shops, as well as in domestic homes of domestic producers and domestic products. Even those who make it into these chains of goods are crushed to the ground. They are practically examples if they hold the claims of agricultural producers, chambers, farmers' unions, etc. that they do not receive from these chains the practically covered or the costs. Something in this system doesn't work. There has also been a period when the brand has disappeared from our production market or their role has in fact decreased significantly. I am convinced that in this area, much more needs to be done in the area of the promotion of agricultural production conservation. Unfortunately, in this mandate, we have already proposed one law in our parliamentary group, and we are now proposing another law. The fate of that law, which could radically change the structure of agricultural land as well as the size of agricultural holdings, when a small change could substantially change the rounding process of agricultural holdings, in order to allow the agreement of the owners of agricultural land to be reduced in commercial processes, has been vehemently rejected. The government, the government MPs in the National Assembly said when we considered that in three months at the latest this law would be in the legislative process, that it was almost fully harmonised. You may be Members, for example, Mr Weber, or Mrs Pecan, Mr Saiovic, examine the magnetograms of your statements. None of this happened. After this September deadline was not realized by the government coalition, we again proposed an agricultural land law, with a small amendment to reduce the consensus rate from 80% to 67%, to two thirds. Nor was this law adopted at the time because the government was preparing a comprehensive, systematic and I do not know what other solution. Nothing helps if some procedures can be improved further. We could have done it anyway, even if we had accepted this novel, we wouldn't have lost anything. Just let those interests, those commotion procedures where 80% of the consensus has not been reached. I know a few cases where only a few percent are missing. And all those who have ever dealt with the executions of comassations in local environments know how many of these he has shared, how many unrealized land-books matters, how many owners who have abandoned farming and failed to make an inheritance and so on. And of these, it's impossible to get consent. And the ground reform or the change in these conditions for comassations is also one of the preconditions that we can more comprehensively, more logically form agricultural areas to allow fragmented farmers, fragmented agricultural land owners, to even create those minimum areas that allow for economic production. Large differences exist between individual cultures, agricultural cultures, and what is the economic area below. For strawberries, one area is already viable, one for the other, for the wheat of one third, for a farm that deals with dairy activity, and probably one third for the wheat represents an economic minimum. And we didn't pull this off. Here one of the colleagues said that this year, on 11 March, the government target deadline for the submission of law to the National Assembly was as regards agricultural land. He's not here. The Minister has been doing his job for some good month, and in fact he has already completely won the coalition technology as regards the attitude towards the proposals proposed by the opposition in the National Assembly. The speaker with whom he rejected our proposal is identical to all the proposals we have proposed in this mandate. It is conceptually different from ours, if I use the terminology of our President of the National Assembly, it is diametrically opposite, so it cannot be accepted, not sufficiently comprehensive, not systematic and so on. This terminology has become recognizable in this mandate in the National Assembly. However, something must be done in this area if we want this to be our fragmented, I will say, boutique agriculture produces competitive and attractive products. First for the Slovenian market, even for the Slovenian public sector in this case, because we can probably do something about it, we have a large public sector and a lot of consumers in this public sector, and we get fruit and other food products from all over the world. I would suggest that today, when we talk about the principled solutions to the law, we are not talking about details here today, we are talking about a conceptual solution today, we are talking about the sense of something being done in this area, in order to find out together that this area needs to be regulated, that this law is a suitable basis for regulating this area, so that we can further improve it properly, change it, decompose it and so on. Perhaps in this law, if you want to bring it into line with your concept, with your approach, it will be necessary to amend more than a third of the articles of this law, and it may be acceptable for the proposer. In this mandate, we have already had several draft laws where we have changed several articles than the law has. You'll have a look back. However, there was no problem with the fact that the law was not conceptually appropriate, appropriate, there was no discussion as to whether we were adopting diametrically opposite solutions, as proposed by the Government. That's what's been going on. I also think it is right that all those who have any ambition in this agricultural field to sell, to produce, to market, to participate in the formation of this fund, because it is actually their good. This is particularly good for those agricultural producers and the processing industry that works in this area if there is better sales if there is more production. And some of this sector should also participate. Just living off public funds is probably a problem. More than desirable, however, the country's half-participation is welcome. Other economies that have significantly better conditions, which, due to the more appropriate structure of agricultural economies, can operate at lower costs, have an extremely large share in this segment. Here there was a comparison and compared to some segments, some data for some countries, because an integral part of the bill is an international comparison, and there you can see how those economies that are large, which create a lot in this area also invest a lot in the promotion of their own products, their own brands. In fact, I do not understand this defensive policy of the Government and Members of the National Assembly. An extremely small contribution is needed by each of the stakeholders in this private work to form this fund, this fund for the promotion of agricultural products. It's an extremely small participation. Well, that's actually become a major problem now. Also a structural layout, this is a real system layout, how these things are supposed to take place, I think it makes sense in this case. In principle, we do not support the establishment of new agencies, new councils, new legal entities, different combinations, mainly because a third of the funds are used primarily for their operations. All those who know how many different things work, I will say, professional councils, fiscal councils, agencies, etc., we can quickly find that these systems primarily use a lot of money to function on their own. And I think it's very rational to think about the state using what it already has in this area. What's already working, and this is the Food Security Directorate. And I also think that this is a very good position because the Minister would be the one who could in some way also make political decisions, direct work, also co-form, to create a policy to achieve the goals that he has also written in his programme. I don't think that's an unfortunate solution. I think she's very happy. Everything else, when we put this into some independent scheme, into some independent concepts and models, means that this will be a matter that will take place and will take place in a completely different way: without control, without control, without influence, only independent and professional. And from such, I will say, independent and professional projects we have a lot of experience in this country, as well as a lot of bad experiences. I think that this project should be taken by the Minister as one of his core projects. In addition to the reform of agricultural policy, in addition to the reform of land policy, which is, in fact, a prerequisite for these trends in the drying of agricultural holdings, small producers, growth, halting, is one of the basic projects where at this promotion and economic level it would encourage consumption, production, profitability and so on, this is in the system. A country that does nothing or does not do too little in this area also cancels even development, agriculture is not an activity that is typical of urbanised cities, there are more current gardeners, the agricultural activity is characteristic exclusively of rural areas. If we set no policy, no concept for rural areas, then nothing else can happen to us than to increase pressure on cities, on urban centres. And there we're building accelerated satellite social settlements. I think we should [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u31	May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u32	that also areas that are our natural and cultural heritage, to preserve them, to protect them and to get something from them at the end of the stage, something like this that we have to buy in Austria, Italy, Belgium or elsewhere. [[...]] Given that those productions happen far from our eyes, regardless of all the control mechanisms to which they are subjected, I am sure that what we would create on our land would be significantly better, significantly better, significantly better. And what we're creating is actually what we're creating. There are no overburdens here, not with chemicals, not with various other stimulants for growth and production and so on. Production in our areas is, we can say, very organically clean and safe. Therefore, at national level, we should establish an institution, a body that works systematically in this area. So far, this organ's gone. I am also somewhat sorry that we have not been able to prepare something like this in the previous mandate, when the will could have been significantly greater and perhaps even some conditions, were not only restrictions at the time, but nevertheless I think that this step is necessary, is necessary, and I expect that the Government will change its mind somewhat also on this proposal. I think that nothing would be wrong if we supported this law, we tried to process it with proposals that the Government could formulate. Every marriage, respected minister, can be amended, that's what we all know in the National Assembly. There is no law that cannot be amended and prepared in such a way that it corresponds to a coalition image. That's probably what we all know. We're in the National Assembly. For that to happen, it could just be a fliscole. This can be something that is useful for everyday political use, and it is not substantively sustainable. It's not going to hold. We can even make a constitutional law, a law that is enforced by an unconstitutional solution. That's what's going on. And it's probably something like this that's happened in this term. Not some law that doesn't actually have solutions like that anywhere. If well-intentioned in the National Assembly, if well-intentioned or a desire for some partnership was not only verbally expressed, promotionally, but also applied in practice, then it would likely break down a significant number of hard nuts in this mandate. That's how everyone else is. I've already counted one or two in agriculture. Some of them have been told by their colleagues. I think it would make sense for the Government and the coalition to change the concept of thinking, the philosophy of thinking and to take into account a wide range of suggestions that come in writing, in the form of a written product, or also expressed in the discussions of fellow Members in the National Assembly. It would probably not be too much and it would not harm the Republic of Slovenia or the coalition. I suggest you support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u33	Janko Weber has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. In this debate, we have heard the desire or interest of the proponents to supplement this law, to adopt it in this general first reading and then to complete it further. However, we must make very clear the very important and also the key substantive differences between what is enshrined in this generic promotion law and what we really need in Slovenia. In fact, when we are talking about generic promotion, which is the content of this law, it is a promotion of the quality and safety of products. And we must by no means promote domestic producers or domestic producers in this promotion. And this is a danger that in fact opens up the possibility that all those already selling safe food on the Slovenian market today are produced outside Slovenia, in fact by their own resources, to continue to promote it further and thus enable the sale of products that do not originate in Slovenia. This can be very negative and completely counterproductive of what we are trying somehow to unite and unify, that we want to encourage the sale of domestic products and that we want to help domestic farms, the domestic food processing industry. This law can cause more problems in this area than opportunities for domestic producers to promote themselves. Generic promotion doesn't allow that. Safe food may be from or outside the neighbouring country or in general from EU countries. And when you sell it, you have to, if we pass such a law, promote it as safe food. This is a very important substantive difference between what the Minister has already mentioned that we need to promote agricultural and food products. This promotion of agricultural and food products can be achieved through quality schemes, which also allow to a certain extent, to specifically promote those who also achieve this quality in the home environment. And this is the interest of the domestic economy, this is the interest of domestic agriculture. This is a significant substantive difference already in the title of the law and also further in the enforcement of this law through individual articles. It is therefore impossible to talk about the possibility of upgrading this law and eventually leading to adoption. The concept already presented by the applicants today has another very important substantive difference between what we believe needs Slovenian agriculture and the economy in this area. This is an extremely effective market and marketing mechanism. One Directorate for Safe Food, I hope that we can all be aware of this, will never achieve an effective market and marketing approach. Finally, we also face the tendency to reduce the number of employees in public administration. And despite the fact that, in my opinion and behaviour, some individuals in the Directorate for Safe Food are not fully occupied, even less so as to do their work of quality, but even less I believe that they could be educated as an effective expert who could be involved in marketing and marketing agricultural products. This means that, in this case, if we adopt this law in the form of a Directorate for Safe Food, which is supposed to be the holder of this promotion, we should have additional employment, that we will have to invest resources in the training of these personnel, that we will have to provide them with adequate equipment and, I hope, additional space as well. Very high costs, very long process and with poor payout within this Directorate. This is a very important substantive difference between what we really need and what is enshrined in this law. To sum up Mr Tank's debate, he insists that we have a Directorate. So not as one of the applicants is willing to agree that this is not a Directorate, but some other form that could probably be found primarily in representative organisations of our farmers, our food processing industry and all those chains that participate in the production and processing of food in Slovenia. How, then, can we harmonise the content of the law if it is very clear in this general debate that this is the only acceptable form for you not to be taken into account? If it is not possible to reach an agreement in this general debate, we really do not see any other measure such as rejecting this law and introducing another law that will be substantially more consistent with the needs of the economy, agriculture and will be in line with the conditions that actually govern the market. These are extremely difficult. In addition, I think we could add that if we discuss that promotion can take place through representative associations, I think we are also aware that these associations also often appear at meetings organised by the Government, the President of the Government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, outside our borders. Economic diplomacy is one of those forms, which is extremely important in order to enable the product produced and processed in Slovenia to be sold outside the domestic market. This economic diplomacy, I hope that we are aware of this, is significantly easier to implement if this diplomacy is not organised in the Directorate for Food Safety. I think the Directorate for Safe Food, at least in my behaviour, is far from what economic diplomacy means. This is a small country with such a small market as Slovenia needs, and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is changing its organisation of operations precisely in such a way as to try to integrate into markets outside Slovenia and thus allow for the penetration of the Slovenian economy, Slovenian products into external markets. This is one of the key elements and needs for us to organise ourselves more effectively and prepare ourselves already in this very difficult period of economic and financial crisis, and also on tomorrow, when this crisis will be significantly less present and, last but not least, will be managed by the market by those who are far more qualified and will have quality products. Therefore, these schemes, which we need, are key quality schemes for Slovenian producers. And this is what we want to offer, together with the Ministry of Agriculture and then through the Government, in the adoption of Parliament, which, in our opinion, is also a guarantee that the economy and agriculture will also truly follow all the solutions that will be enshrined in these laws. Given that there have been quite a few indications that the Minister is already adhering to rejecting, with some obnoxious phrases of the coalition, proposals for laws, let me make it very clear that this same law, which the opposition has tabled in the procedure, is only one of the laws that has been taken from the drafts that have been created in the Ministry and is only slightly adapted, and is by no means assigned to be implemented in practice. It is another attempt at a kind of plagiarism of laws that were created in the Ministry and offered for adoption by the National Assembly. In fact, I only see the benefit of being able to speak out loud about the need for this promotion. Only the implementation of this law, but the very content of this law is truly incomplete and not sufficiently thoughtful and coordinated with all those who really need this law in practice. And even if we are talking about the agricultural land law, remember, the proposals made by the opposition on the issue of the agricultural land law were purely and only on the issue of comassations. This is only one part of agricultural policy. And we've always rejected it for the reason that it's too small. Today we face an extremely big problem when all municipalities in Slovenia expect spatial acts to be adopted as soon as possible and in line with all ministries or those involved in this process at the level of the country. And the Ministry of Agriculture is one of the key. And if we do not introduce into the agricultural land law a mechanism that will allow for faster placement of both line objects and other objects into the space, then of course we have done nothing. It's actually a very small segment. And that's all the opposition offered. We actually want to offer a law that will allow all those who plan to develop in this room, that we can drive this development in an orderly manner, and that we know what decisions we need to make, that there will be no bad will at the beginning or somewhere, when you have clear criteria, how it can interfere and how it can interfere with agricultural land. It's just one segment. However, it should be made very clear that we have taken the first step towards a more successful and active land policy in this Parliament and have already adopted this mandate. This is the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. This was the first step towards a more effective land policy in Slovenia. The Fund has obtained significantly greater powers under this Act in particular in those lands which, due to the irregular relationship between farm owners or agricultural land, have grown and have not been included in the production. The Fund under this law is given the opportunity and the opportunity to solve such cases, that we also have as many agricultural areas as possible in processing. So the first very important step in the land agricultural policy was taken, followed by the following, which will really need significantly more fundamental interventions in the law currently in force in this area, as proposed by the opposition. Our discussions and our arguments for rejecting the opposition's proposals have always been very soundly substantiated and we have never taken a decision just like that ad hoc, because this is only supposed to be the reason for refusing that the opposition has passed the law. We have always looked at whether it makes sense to support it or not, if it really did not make sense, then we have made it very clear that we do not support these proposals. And something similar in this law on generic promotion of agricultural and food products, because it would really be unacceptable for our public resources to actually finance to a large extent safe products coming outside the borders of the Slovenian state. This is one of the key arguments why we believe that this law should be rejected at this first reading and then agreed as soon as possible with the Ministry of Agriculture to forward to the Government a law that will truly promote agricultural and food products originating in Slovenia. And that's what we need right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary? Mr Dejan Židan has the floor [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u36	Your Honor! Allow only two or three words. In fact, there is a substantive difference, although the purpose is similar, in the law that we are considering today and in the law that is almost completed in the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In doing so, I must stress the following. In any event, the current administration and the current minister do not own a draft which is currently in the final stage of the agricultural ministry procedure, as this draft is the result of a long-standing effort. These very intensive efforts began at the time of Minister Iztok Jarc, when he also identified within his cabinet the man responsible for this law and then the then Minister made a very good move. When he found that he could not reach the agreement of the participants in the food chain at one point, the law stopped. This is, in my opinion, because this law, which is intended for agriculture and the food processing industry, is the only possible. The draft, which was created at the time, was further processed during the time of Minister Milan Pogačnik. At the same time, consensus has already been reached in certain areas of dispute, not all of them. When I took over the agricultural ministry, I must say that a high level of consensus has already been reached, except in two cases, and we have also found a solution to these two matters, so the law is currently suitable for consideration by the Agriculture and Rural Council of the Republic of Slovenia and then for public treatment among partners. But what's important and what needs to be said is the following. Slovenian agriculture and the food processing industry do not generally want a generic promotion. What does generic promotion mean? Generic promotion means urging the Slovenian consumer to eat safe food, that it is appropriate to eat milk, that it is appropriate to eat pork, poultry meat and the like. At the current low self-sustainment rate, Slovenian food production does not want to promote competition from abroad. When a law is intended for generic promotion, it is essentially separated from laws abroad. You have already mentioned, Mr Member, Austria and also the other countries are based on their own promotion in a way that uses minimum quality schemes. The minimum quality scheme allows us to address the consumer: "Enjoy the food from your surroundings, because it is beneficial for you and your environment." But this substantive difference is not small. This substantive difference means that the draft law, which has 15 or 16 articles, brings us to a law that has 42 articles. This is also one of the reasons why I have to say that when I was informed that you have tabled a draft law, I felt joy, I thought, a joint project, we can upgrade it as a sign of the appropriate participation of everyone in Parliament who understands that food production is so important that it needs promotion. However, this substantive difference has led to the fact that we only want to introduce a draft law that is currently highly coordinated between partners. And that is essentially the only reason that I do not support this draft and that, as a Government, we do not support this draft, but at the same time, I wish that it is the awareness that the Slovenian food industry, that Slovenian agriculture needs a law that allows communication with the consumer in such a way that the country is also involved. And what is essential is that quality schemes allow European resources to be present in communication with the consumer. This, I think, is the common opinion of all of you who have debated today, and I look forward to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the proposer? [[No, no, ……]] I note that the debate on the bill has been concluded. However, since time is still available, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the meeting's timetable tomorrow, 18. 6. In the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the beginning of the day, this is the first defence proposal of the Law on State Subventions for the purchase of an area of more friendly passenger motor vehicles, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of four Members, with the first-signed Dr. Luka Yuri. With regard to this bill, a group of 10 Members and Members, with first-signed Matthew Frangež, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the law, Dr Luke Yuri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Good-bye! In essence, the bill is nothing new. He is trying to introduce in Slovenia as much as possible a measure that we think would be effective. A similar measure, but in particular with a view to promoting consumption and not so much to improve the condition of the rolling stock, is also known by many other countries. In recent times, however, such measures have changed in the direction not so much of promoting consumption but of promoting exchange, improving the fleet. After all, we have heard from the Chamber of Commerce about the promotion of consumption, and it must be acknowledged that part of the inspiration for this bill is also another proposal for a law tabled by the SDS Group, although the aim was to promote consumption at that time. Here we want to focus more on the environmental improvement of the Slovenian rolling stock with a similar measure, while encouraging consumption for us at this moment is a less important indirect consequence. The law proposes the introduction of subsidies if there is a purchase of a vehicle with extremely low emissions, provided that the buyer simultaneously destroys a vehicle over 10 years of age with a high level of pollution. Only natural persons are allowed by law. It is most encouraged by a subsidy to purchase an electric vehicle, a slightly less hybrid and slightly less classic low-emission drive. In addition, it partially subsidises the installation of a liquefied petroleum gas or compressed natural gas propulsion system and the installation of a particulate filter in diesel vehicles. We live in a time of great technological advances, an information revolution, the Internet, even nanotechnology. And our cars, no matter how beautiful they are, are new, full of travel computers, still based on very outdated technology. Not even on the Ford T model from 1904, nor on the first steam-powered passenger car, which is also the basis for today's technology for internal combustion from 1890, nor on the first steam-powered locomotive from 1804, but even on the steam engine that was first built by Mr. Newcomn in 1715 and improved by James Watt in 1763. And the first steam engine we know from the first century of our number, and Heron from Alexandria invented it and made it. It's time to encourage a technological leap. It's time for us to move on to something much better, 1,800 years more advanced, but already fortified. The patent for the electric motor was registered in 1888 by Nikola Tesla. He registered it in the United States because unfortunately, in the region of our region, he did not find the right substrate so that he could introduce his great inventions. In this technological leap, let us ask where Slovenia is and where Slovenia wants to be. We are full of mouths when we talk about the need for Slovenia to be at the top of the world, to encourage and to aim for knowledge and for a high value-added economy. With these subsidies, we want to achieve, above all, that we encourage this technological transition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much. There is no Minister Dr. Rok Žarnic. I propose that we move forward with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The representative of the Government may be involved in the discussion with his/her views at any time following the presentation of the groups. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! Since I have the right word, I didn't want to be procedural earlier, but I don't think the procedure is the best thing for a government representative to do is not to listen to the opinion of the parliamentary groups on this law. However, I will not object, nor on behalf of the Group of Members. But it's not right. [[..]] Your Honor! Allow me to begin by saying that the SDS Group proposed incentives in the field of motor vehicles in May 2009 under the second package of measures to overcome the economic crisis in addition to other measures. Given that Slovenia is a major manufacturer of components for the automotive industry, this means that increased production of vehicles and also the purchase of vehicles also means work for our workers, is said to be our cooperatives in Slovenia. In doing so, it must be made clear and clear that our proposal, in addition to economic and financial impacts, has also taken into account the environmental view. This is said to be lower taxes for vehicles with less harmful discharges. These are environmentally friendly vehicles that would be less taxed. Finally, it is necessary to say that in Slovenia we even produce vehicles that are more environmentally friendly as a producer of multinationals and when it comes to motorcycles and our own domestic manufacturer. As an interesting thing to say, our clean environment measures were meant for environmentally friendly vehicles, accompanied by a coalition, I must first say that they were all rejected, and this proposal was rejected as incomplete, as incomplete, as the collection of political points, as political, even if we had copied it, and this has also been said by the Government, that the Government is preparing a modern, comprehensive system law that is already in preparation, but is not yet ripe for publication. [[...]] Of course, then we ask ourselves where we could have copied it from, if that was obvious to us. It must be recognised that the Government has drawn up its law, within the framework of the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, but with interesting solutions. The fact is, we were disappointed at least in the SDS Group when we saw this law. We have found that it is nothing but a budget masquerade and that such a law, as it was then adopted, has virtually no connection to the environment. This law, drafted by the Government and also adopted at the end of last year, was amended by the Slovenian Democratic Party. We proposed some amendments, which were all rejected in turn. You will not believe, on the same grounds that they are imperfect, incomplete, raising political points, half. The only thing we haven't heard is that we copied it from somewhere because it probably didn't work. There is some illogicality in the government law that is now in force. The tax is also on electric vehicles.In the case of environmentally friendly vehicles, the electric drive is at least the most friendly in that direct sense because it does not create any greenhouse gas emissions. So if it's about ecology, it's a complete nonsense. The following is illogical in this applicable law. The European Directive on the introduction of motor generators states that Euro 6 is prescribed for 2014. But our law requires this already in 2011, otherwise of course there is a statutory tax. Please, then, how is it possible that Europe does not even have such aggregates or such vehicles at least for mass production, let us leave prototypes and so on if they are not yet in Europe, how would we have them in Slovenia? Is it possible to produce such vehicles in Slovenia? I'm sure you don't. So it's a pure tax matter and a budget patch. The third thing that bothered us. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed not to tax a bicycle with an engine or, by home, mopeds, which we also produce at home, but after a government proposal, which is also accepted, they are taxed. Even more, battery-powered motorcycles are taxed. So, this has nothing to do with ecology. The law was adopted, which was also promoted environmentally, but it had nothing to do with ecology. What was even more interesting was the adoption of a law which ultimately taxes the most vehicles that are most sold, which is said to be the lower, middle class, which is at least the most environmentally friendly at the moment, the specific consumption is also environmentally friendly, and the engines are also the most advanced in this area. So it wasn't about ecology, but it was about the budget patching. The rejections of our additions, our amendments, but now, after about five months, they have had their reincarnation. The proponents - this must be admitted - have somehow miraculously overlooked, despite being very skeptical about our proposals when adopting our amendments and our law. That, after five months of validity of the law, the applicants have overlooked this, we consider it to be commendable and also welcome. But it is true, and this must be said immediately, that the approach to this proposal, which is before us, is slightly different from ours. We think it's a little more bureaucratic, because all the taxes that have been prescribed so far remain, even after that law six months ago. However, the purchase would be subsidised in the light of greenhouse gas emissions and dust particles occurring in discharges, which makes the whole process more complicated and pooled. The easiest thing to do is to reduce the tax on environmentally friendly vehicles. There would be the most reduced taxes on electric-powered vehicles that do not directly produce discharges; and the second would be how batteries are charged and how electricity is produced. However, in the final stage, it is normal and we somehow understand this approach. But it is true, and let us say this directly, that it is illogical and incorrect that the buyer is receiving a subsidy in the replacement of the car, not in the first purchase. This puts the customer in an unequal position, because if it is an environment, then the one who buys the first vehicle, environmentally friendly, is the same as the one who replaces the old vehicle for the new one. The environmental impact is exactly the same. And the young person who buys the first car is not to blame for not being able to buy an old car in the previous period so that he can replace it now. It's an inequality before the law. And what does that mean? The people who are following this law and amending legislation in this area have warned us and have already just told us what the scenario will be if this law is adopted. The first thing that will happen is those who have a little more money and will be able to afford another vehicle will first buy an old vehicle for a really minimum value. Since they will have time, they will wait three years as long as the legal criterion under this law for entry into the system is in force. And after three years, they're going to replace the vehicle, and the subsidy is going to be bigger than the value of that old crypt they bought three years ago. It's a script, and people have already studied it because it's an exception. The law must be universal for all, whether it's the first vehicle, the first purchase, or whether it's a vehicle change. And that must be the bad side of this marriage. The subsidy should apply to everyone. The law must be universal, as we have received the obvious, must be universal, must be systemic, must be comprehensive and so on. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we find that our proposal for a law last year has received copycats, but not the best, but something is moving, which we recognise. Especially since the proponents until recently were fierce opponents of our proposals. I wouldn't read those debates that were here at the National Assembly. However, our approach was significantly broader, taking into account the ecological component that was upgraded by economic activity, while the process was significantly simpler, i.e. less bureaucratic. Regardless of the sympathy for such thinking that arises from the proposal of this law, we ask ourselves whether this law is comprehensive, whether it is perfect, whether it is also possible that it is not a collection of political points, as it has been reported to us, whether it has even been copied. Above all, we are interested in who is preparing a comprehensive law. When we proposed similar laws, it has always been said that the Government is preparing a comprehensive system law to prepare the draft. That's what we're interested in. Notwithstanding all, despite the fact that the procedure prescribed in this law is a little more bureaucratic, it takes into account all the activities necessary to purchase and register and further prove the subsidy. It is unilateral, however, because it applies only to the replacement of vehicles, but not to the purchase of the first vehicle and is somehow without an economic component. In addition, we are not clear on our personal interests. In the second paragraph of Article 2, paragraph 2, we are not clear, and we will not oppose this law in the SDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u42	Your Honor! Scientists have found that mankind has made a significant contribution to climate change through greenhouse gas emissions. The Schengen report notes that climate change poses a serious global threat and requires a priority global response. The Member States of the European Union have already responded and adopted conclusions on energy and environmental policy changes by 20%, reducing primary energy consumption by 20%, reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% and increasing the share of primary energy renewables by 20% by 2020. The job's not easy. Transport is also one of the major energy and greenhouse gas pollutants. The use of energy in transport in Slovenia accounts for more than 30% of all final energy in Slovenia. By far the largest part of energy consumption is the consumption of liquid fuels, almost 99% and the rest of electricity consumption. In the last period, transport has been characterised mainly by rapid growth in road, freight, in particular transit, a large increase in the number of passenger vehicles, dominant short-distance driving and, consequently, a significant reduction in public passenger transport. Many indicators point to the continuation of the marked automotive transport in Slovenia. This is mainly done by the State, including through the introduction of vignettes, as well as by local communities, which, by their means of dealing with transport problems, encourage such guidance. Let me stress that car transport is the most unsustainable mode of transport or mobility, and therefore the priority of the country and the local communities is different action and a shift towards sustainable transport development. In recent years, many experts, NGOs and the media have invested considerable energy in raising consumers' awareness about the environmental burden caused by cars and traffic in general. In the last year, many manufacturers in their advertising campaigns have also promoted the reduction of CO2 emissions from their cars. However, the analysis of purchasing habits in Slovenia shows that customer awareness actions have limited reach and car salesmen also have limited interest. In order to encourage the development of industry towards a smaller environmental burden, to prevent the sale of motor vehicles with relatively outdated technology and to limit the use of money for the costs of fossil fuels for motor vehicles, in Slovenia, we also changed the tax on motor vehicles in Slovenia on the basis of the requirements of Real – new policy from the coalition contract last year. Within the law, however, we have achieved stricter regulation of transport with environmentally problematic used vehicles from abroad with a markedly increased tax rate. In times of recession, an even greater proportion of the imports of used vehicles are expected. It is precisely in these cases that high-emission vehicles are mostly concerned. In addition, for vehicles with rather outdated motor technologies that give the buyer a mere illusion to buy a smaller vehicle that consumes less fuel and less burdens the environment, appropriate changes in the tax rates for these engine standards would be achieved. We are trying to put the environment first in the party and the Group of Members, and we therefore support all proposals for legislation that are geared towards the objectives of sustainable development and environmental protection. But in this proposal, we are before the imposed exception. This initiative, according to our estimates, is more focused on promoting purchases and is mainly in the interest of manufacturers and, above all, car salesmen. We do not deny that other members of the European Union have introduced mechanisms for subsidising the purchase of environmentally friendly cars. We note, however, that there are two different views on how to deal with the automotive industry, which at the time of the recession appears to be an important economic operator with a strong impact on the other branches of the economy. In our view and also in the opinion of other experts, these subsidies were more intended to save the automotive industry than to save the environment. In fact, we do not want to regulate the new policy of this area simply and only by promoting market logic for promoting sales, but, on the one hand, by means of appropriate taxes, to encourage the automotive industry to develop environmentally friendly and environmentally sound vehicles and to use renewable energy sources, and, of course, to encourage people to think and make decisions in this area. Due to these serious concerns, the Group of Members is indeed being held to the proposal and is unlikely to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that this law is inappropriate for this time. During the global economic crisis, when we have 100,000 unemployed people in Slovenia, endlessly many problems with the start of the Slovenian economy and entrepreneurship, with payment indiscipline, illiquidity, lack of access to money, which should be directed and directed towards development and for our future, this measure cannot be a priority. It is easy to spend a dozen purposes for which it would be wiser to spend €4.5 million per year than to purchase almost in the established brands and types of cars. We cannot get rid of the feeling that it is a completely lobbyist law if we know that the required conditions on the Slovenian market meet only a handful of car brands. Such a law is certainly not appropriate and acceptable for the current time, as I have said, the time of the financial and economic crisis, as it is aimed at such an increase in consumption and the consumption that does not add value to the economy and does not give rise to economic growth. In order to achieve objectives such as clean environment, health, air quality and the achievement of limit values for pollution in accordance with the European Union directives and transport safety, comprehensive measures are needed and such legislation will not solve all of this. I'm sure you don't. Furthermore, it seems unacceptable to us that, for example, there was no support for the Slovenian People's Party's proposal to subsidise or facilitate investment in the economy, which would certainly be a much better measure that would give a much greater added value to the economy and in particular raise the economic growth that needs to be done. In social legislation, the current government proposes a violation of the rights and abolition of a state pension. At the same time, a law is proposed to promote the purchase of cars from a budget of €4.5 million. Let us recall that the Members of the Slovenian People's Party have recently proposed two bills to give farmers with the lowest pensions a protective allowance and an annual allowance, and the matter has been rejected. Only EUR 95.62 per person per month was the amount of the protective allowance. At the annual level, this would mean around €2.6 million in 2010 to increase the country's liabilities to the pension fund. In the coming years, these resources would be less due to the natural law to say so. For the annual allowance, a little over €900,000 at the annual level should be allocated from the pension allowance for the lowest pension farmers in 2010. These laws were flatly rejected. And it's those Slovenians and Slovenians who have a farm pension of 100, 200, maybe 300 euros. The funds would be better spent, certainly if we supported these two proposals of the law. The purpose of this law, which is before us, is, according to the proposaler, to encourage the removal from transport of the most environmentally friendly passenger vehicles and their replacement with the most environmentally friendly ones. This ambition must be important. Of course, it would be most correct for citizens to have such wages that they could afford a new car, the most ecological, cost-effective car for their personal use. Such a law for this time of crisis in the Group of the Slovenian People's Party cannot be supported. However, the projected funding of €4.5 million, which is not so small at the end of the day, is more likely to be earmarked by a rebalancing of the budget for economic development or for measures of housing policy, for young families or for the social security of farmers, perhaps for the removal of damage after storms, or even could be listed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The purpose of the proposed law is to grant aid in the form of a State subsidy to certain groups of natural and legal persons with a view to encouraging the purchase of environmentally friendly vehicles and to encourage the owner of an old vehicle to withdraw it from transport and to destroy it. In the DeSUS Group, we concluded that the text of the proposal for this law, which, by the way, gives rise to a good intention of the proposer, is inconvenient, inappropriate from a nomo technical point of view. Thus, DeSUS Members did not contribute their signatures as co-proposers. We also cannot provide support for the proposal itself at this time. The shortcomings of the proposal we have identified relate to several segments. The proposal foresees subsidisation only to natural persons but not to legal persons, which can be disputed in terms of equality. In the context of Article 2, which is intended to define the conditions for granting a subsidy for the purchase or processing of a vehicle, these conditions are not in fact defined at all, but are the author of this text in this section of the provision in the amount of the subsidy, which we can explain to ourselves as if there are virtually no conditions. For example, a person is obliged to provide official evidence of the destruction of an old vehicle and the provisions do not imply that it is obliged to provide basic evidence, evidence of the purchase of a new, environmentally friendly vehicle. On the other hand, the potential ownership of an old vehicle is not an appropriate condition for the eligibility of the subsidy, since, on the basis of this, it is exempt from subsidisation that first purchasers of the vehicle are exempted from the subsidy and for which there is no reasonable reason. It follows from the text that the beneficiary is only a person who buys a new vehicle and it is appropriate to consider whether the subsidy would also be justified by a person who buys an environmentally friendly vehicle which is perhaps only a year or two old. We believe that they want to pursue environmental objectives, and we point out that a recent amendment to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act has been adopted in the direction of so-called environmental taxation of vehicles. Simply put, vehicles that are more burdensome after this adoption are also taxed at a higher rate. There is no doubt that such a way of taxation contributes to the reduction of environmental pollution — no one is likely to object — but the issue that is also affecting us on this issue is the question of where the planned subsidies are actually intended. Although this is beautifully written in the text, in practical terms, who could be a potential beneficiary today shows a completely different picture. The applicant himself states in the recitals that the proposal for a law concerns vehicles which are more expensive when purchasing. I do not think that we should particularly remind people that today's crisis is by no means the priority of buying new, expensive, environmentally friendly vehicles, but unfortunately just everyday survival. Given that the number of socially weaker groups is increasing from day to day, unemployment and poverty are increasing, and on the assumption that these people will not, because they cannot physically, intervene after this privilege, the text is written solely on the skin of the rich. From this point of view, we do not currently support the proposal of this law in the DeSUS Group. However, we certainly allow the opportunity to present our concerns as unfounded or to demonstrate the possibility and energy to remedy these shortcomings, which we will not be able to assess until the conclusion of the debate. Therefore, we do not support the proposal at this point in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u48	Your Honor! It is noted that traders today no longer offer bad vehicles, either motor vehicles or cars. It is certainly an emphasis on reducing emissions, which is increasingly being applied among manufacturers, and it is right that the trend is going in this direction, as financial incentives both by countries and by some traders undermine environmentally friendly passenger vehicles, which are already very much reflected in competition on the market and by manufacturers. I don't know exactly how much more environmentally friendly cars have been sold this year than last year. Surely, however, the percentage is quite high, as far as I know from talking to new car salesmen. More anger and dissatisfaction are expressed by the sellers of used vehicles, whose sales have fallen and it is in some ways understandable that the legislation has also reached this direction. For them it does not show that the situation will improve, for the golden times for selling old cars are over. When we encourage the purchase of environmentally friendly cars, it would be right to think about the written-off vehicles, which are about 60,000 a year, and there are only 7,000 of them in recycling centres, while others are lost and no control. We talk about low-CO2 vehicles and we rank them according to the purity of the subsidies for the subsidy rate. All of this is beautiful and right and we support it, but I wonder why subsidies do not also affect the area that ensures the safety of drivers and passengers. There are more and more accidents from which we can see that, in the field of driver safety, smaller vehicles are more dangerous than bigger ones, which is not shown in the proposal. A lot of money is spent by the state to treat the unfortunate. Many also become disabled people, and this sum is certainly not negligible, and it would suggest that subsidies should also be given for the purchase of more securely completed vehicles and should include all that is contained in the proposal of this Act. The purpose of the proposal for a state subsidy law to buy more environmentally friendly passenger motor vehicles is to encourage the withdrawal from the transport of the most environmentally friendly passenger vehicles and their replacement with environmentally friendly vehicles. Amendments to the Motor Vehicle Tax Act have already encouraged the purchase of environmentally sound vehicles, but they have no effect on the market for old vehicles. It is the law we are dealing with today in the National Assembly that constitutes an adjustment to such an arrangement. By means of a subsidy relating to the destruction of an environmentally-friendly vehicle, the purchase of environmentally-friendly vehicles on the market is encouraged. The draft law provides for different amounts of subsidies in relation to the typology of the vehicle to which the subsidy relates. The maximum subsidies are provided for the purchase of vehicles without direct CO2 emissions in the case of vehicles with such direct releases, and two amounts of subsidies are proposed according to their level. In the event of the purchase of a hybrid-powered vehicle based on internal combustion engines of an electric motor, a higher subsidy is proposed as such vehicles have, compared to those exclusively powered, based on the internal combustion engine in urban driving, where pollution is felt by the most people, generally significantly lower emissions. As cheaper but still environmentally efficient, the measure also recognises the installation of a particulate filter in a diesel vehicle or the installation of a liquefied petroleum gas or compressed natural gas propulsion system. However, since such interventions are of an average value of around EUR 800 to thousands, the planned subsidy is accordingly lower. This is an important novelty of the Draft Law on State subsidies for the purchase of more environmentally friendly passenger motor vehicles, which according to the Slovenian National Party's Group are good. That is why we will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Good-bye to all of you! Greetings to the proposer as well! The views are very interesting, and perhaps there will be discussions. The law will probably not receive majority support, but we have all the parliamentary groups on this subject to say something positive that further solutions are needed in the area. I view this as positive and good, and especially as a task for all to do a lot more in this area for the good of Slovenia as well as for the environment. We are considering the idea of a group of Members and Members on state subsidies to buy more environmentally friendly cars. Following this idea, subsidies would be available from 2012 to 2014. The amount of benefits that customers would be eligible for would depend on the level of the different types of emissions and the condition for the acquisition of at least 10 years old cars. When purchasing a car that does not have direct emissions, this is electric-powered cars, and according to the proposal of the proponents, the buyer would receive €4,000 of state subsidy, and a classic car with an internal combustion engine with a small carbon dioxide release, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, the subsidy would amount to between €500 and €2000. An interesting solution is that for hybrid-powered cars, the amount of the subsidy would be even higher by an additional EUR 500. Such a scheme is expected to be in force in the transitional period until 2014, and in the case of emission cars it would be tightened in the last year. The proposal also provides for the vehicle to be converted into gas and for the installation of a particulate filter. Such subsidies to replace relatively more environmentally polluting vehicles with more environmentally acceptable ones are difficult or impossible to oppose in practice and also in politics. The proposal is certainly also welcome to the general public, you might say, in the part of the story, but nothing bad, even populism. At the same time, it has positive environmental effects, although relatively small in terms of the world or Slovenia in global terms. Nevertheless, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we firmly believe that without extensive and systematic measures in the field of public passenger transport in Slovenia, we will not solve our environmental and transport problems. By partial, to the extent of the very limited measures envisaged in the proposed law, we will only ease our discomfort when facing major environmental and traffic problems and the announced multi-million-million-dollar penalties of the European Union, which await us if we do not do something. Thus, for example, a good, positive solution, the construction of garage houses in the centre of Ljubljana without the modernisation of public passenger transport in the form of modern urban railway will not solve Ljubljana's environmental and transport problems. Also, giving a few subsidies to buy more environmentally friendly cars will not solve Slovenian environmental and transport problems as well. The mere modernisation and reinforcement of public transport in Slovenia, both road and rail, is the only correct solution in this equation, which obviously has no one too interested in Slovenia at this time, does not worry about excluding some NGOs and perhaps some individuals from the state administration who must be interested in it because of their official duties. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, therefore, all these solutions and we do not favour this law, because we believe that, if already, it would be better to provide these limited public funds, which are yet to be provided in future budgets with an annual state budget, for state subsidies for the purchase of modern vehicles intended for the public road transport of passengers. Thus, this financial advantage would also benefit or benefit all those who would drive by public transport, thereby also diverting a large proportion of the funds from personal investment into the public sphere and still gain environmental impact. Such subsidisation would at least help to improve the quality of public transport and thus make it more friendly and more competitive in relation to passenger transport while at the same time making environmental effects in public transport more and more measurable. Unfortunately, the bill's proponents who clearly swear on absolute individualism in transport failed to incorporate it into the existing amendment of the law. Nor can we get rid of the feeling that the law was created with great desire to promote the proponents as environmentally sensitive persons, so we are concerned and cannot pass the significant silence of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Transport, nor has the Ministry of the Environment and Space. Obviously, none of them are thrilled by the various reasons behind the bill. We are not overly fond of the proposal for a law in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, but we are not particularly opposed to it by the fact that there is one more in a series of legislative proposals and laws that have covered the issue of public transport of passengers in Slovenia, especially in larger cities. By fully regulating and modernising public passenger transport, Slovenia would, however, if we could match the words of a journalist of one of our central newspapers, who praised the bill and its envisaged state subsidies, saying that Slovenia would prove that it knows, wants and can think primarily organically, in fact, as many of our neighbouring European countries do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u52	Respected and respected! The National Assembly adopted a declaration last November on Slovenia's active role in the fight against climate change. We defined two with that declaration. Firstly, define Slovenia's position as we wish in the global push towards an international agreement that will ensure effective greenhouse gas reduction. Secondly, the necessary steps, recommendations to the Government and the National Assembly, how we must act to ensure the necessary transformation of Slovenia into a low-carbon society, is a company with small greenhouse gas emissions that are clearly recognised as a key cause of global warming. This was a principled policy of declaration, but this policy has already been followed by concrete measures. First of all, the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, with which from other parameters, let's say prices, came to the emission parameter. We have replaced the pure economic aspect with an environmental dimension and rewarded those who think environmentally efficiently and, with a higher tax burden, sanctioned those who, despite the calls and challenges of time, drive wasteful heavy vehicles. But what we are proposing today is part of an integrated policy. Slovenia needs a comprehensive integrated climate strategy. I am very pleased that in the views which accompanied the European Commission's proposal to increase Europe's emission reduction targets from 20% to 30% by 2020, the Slovenian government has made it clear that Europe needs a low-carbon strategy, a strategy for the transition of the European economy to low-carbon technologies. Moreover, right now in the public debate, a government proposal for a law on climate change will be the next concrete measure, in fact a set of concrete measures that we want to pave the way for Slovenia to ensure an effective transition to a low-carbon society, effective climate adaptation and effective emission reduction. We therefore do not want to remain only at the principle level, but we must also implement this policy through concrete measures. The already mentioned Motor Vehicle Tax Act was in its own way a stick with which we punished the losers. This measure, however, is a cornerstone for those who want to think environmentally friendly in their consumer behaviour. The proposed law is therefore only one of these measures aimed at making a necessary change in the structure of vehicles in Slovenia. From large, heavy and waste vehicles to small, efficient and cost-effective vehicles that consume little energy and have low or even zero greenhouse gas emissions. This is certainly not the only thing we need to do in this area in Slovenia, but it represents one of the interlinked and integrated measures fully consistent with the already adopted Motor Vehicle Tax Act, while being fully complementary to what we have already heard about this speaker today, this is a commitment to more efficient public passenger transport. However, the measures do not compete, they are not alternatives, but they are complementary measures, which fully ensure the achievement of the climate objectives in our country. A comparative view shows that a number of European countries have already introduced such measures. Germany allocates €2 000 500 for environmentally friendly vehicles, Austria €360, Italy €500-3000, France €5,000 and Portugal €5,000. The results of these measures clearly show that they produce effective results. Data for 2009 in Italy show that such measures helped to reduce average vehicle emissions by 7.8%, from 145 grams per kilometer to 135 grams per kilometer transported. It is an extremely important position adopted by the Government for Climate Change and says that it is extremely important that this measure gives the world producers a clear signal that Slovenia is a promising market for electric vehicles. Otherwise, the producers of Slovenia will bypass. The Scandinavian example clearly shows that there, for example, vehicles on LPG liquefied petroleum gas are something that is a regular occurrence on the roads. 30 % of the market. And that's what producers in the regular sales programme have had for decades. In Slovenia, vehicles for liquefied petroleum gas are only hard to break. Why? Because the State has not accompanied these measures with concrete incentives and has thus shown that Slovenia is a promising market for such vehicles. In this respect, it is extremely important that, thanks to such measures, Slovenia will be among those markets that will be the first to receive offers of fully electric battery vehicles. This, I repeat, is the position of the Government's Climate Change Service, which was also taken by the Government's Committee for Economic Affairs and Sustainable Development under the leadership of Dr. Francet Križanič. In this economic crisis, we hear many times that there is no promise of a technological revolution. The need for climate adaptation and emission reduction is one of those areas where we have a range of technologies at our disposal where technology is no longer an issue and where this technological revolution is taking place. At the same time, it represents an extremely important and extremely fast-growing economic sector. More than once in this place, I have already mentioned that I am convinced that this is the fastest growing economic sector in decades to come, which has already been shown in construction, which is reflected in other areas where we are trying to increase the efficient use of energy, the transition to low-carbon technologies and so on. One third of the employees in the Slovenian economy are related in one way or another to the automotive industry. Not only Revoz, whose diesel twingo falls entirely under the proposed law's subsidies, but also other companies producing components, equipment such as Iskra Autoelectrica, Cimos, Maribor foundry, Hidria and others who have already recognised the opportunities in the market in the future of electrified vehicles or have yet to find these opportunities. Moreover, the company Equipment Ravne even produced the first prototype of Chebel's electric vehicle, which clearly shows that Slovenia, in this area too, is overcoming the innovation of catching tails of the most advanced countries and economies in this area. This is the train Slovenia must be on. It is now a question of whether Slovenia will be among the advanced economies that will participate in this large process, which will completely change the reality of our personal mobility in the coming years, and whether the Slovenian economy will be able to cut off part of its lunch with Slovenian knowledge, Slovenian work and Slovenian creativity in this technological transformation. As it is said, the Government has not yet drawn up a final opinion on this law. The positive opinions of the Government for Climate Change, the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Government Committee for Economic Affairs and Sustainable Development, led by Dr. Franeta Križanič, clearly show that there are opinions in government that favour this law. This measure is already included in the operational programme of the Government for greenhouse gas reduction adopted by the Government on 30 July last year. This law is therefore an important part of an integrated climate policy that provides incentives for environmentally friendly consumer decision-making, for reducing emissions, reducing dependence on imported and environmentally unfriendly fuels, fossil fuels and effectively realizing the opportunities of the Slovenian economy in this technological transformation. As one of the candidates, I see only positive effects in this law. The Group of Members, whose position I am representing here today, will vote in accordance with its conscience.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There shall be a general debate of Members and Members on the basis of the notification and presence given at this meeting. Mr. Franci Kek will not discuss it. Mr. Bogdan Barovich has the floor [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I welcome the proposal for a law on state subsidies for the purchase of more environmentally friendly motor vehicles. I welcome him because, despite all the fairy tales and stories written by environmentalists, I claim that passenger cars are the largest polluter in the country of the Republic of Slovenia. Bigger than the different factories they point to with their fingers. Another time. As far as I have succeeded, I have listened carefully to previous speakers, and I have heard quite a few otherwise justified reports, I believe that they are justified, but they are completely at odds with themselves. Look, there was no problem in this hall when we accepted the so-called DMV - tax on motor vehicles.Although some of us objected, most of us said, "Yes, this tax must be, this tax is "fine". And it was adopted. So, the people we've heard about in this hall, how they're in critical condition today, how they can only buy cars, etc. But these people should pay taxes on motor vehicles if they want to drive. Come on, come on, give it to the state! But now that the state is supposed to return something to the people, you're against it. I think you give it-- I give it only fair play. If we said that tax on motor vehicles, let's say that it was also a subsidy. This law cannot save Slovenia, Europe and the whole world. It's not working. This law actually solves the problem of those who have vehicles older than 10 years of age who own these vehicles for three years, this law forces people to officially recycle old, used cars, not to drive them and throw them into a guest, because then we do the "Clean Slovenia" action and drag cars out. With this certificate, the country also helps them to buy an already useful new greener vehicle. In this I see good things myself, so subsidies bring benefits. In addition, they bring benefits that are not written down, greater security, greater security because people will no longer drive in 12, 15, 17 years old cars, but will drive in vehicles for the first time, which will be newer or even new and environmentally friendly vehicles. Most of these vehicles currently on the market are also in the lower or middle price class, which means that they are available to slightly larger numbers than the other larger and less environmentally friendly vehicles. It's just that in life, if we give some to a country, a tax on motor vehicles, because we don't want to help in a clean environment, let the country return something to those who want to help with the clean environment. And we have this solution with the proposal of this law, which today is under general discussion. One more thing. I am convinced that this is a far greater step towards the real realization of the European objective of 20-20-20, like all fairy tales, I reiterate that I have listened to in the European Parliament and directly in Spain at individual conferences to use or introduce 25%, specifically Slovenia, of renewable sources in the 20s. It's a fairy tale. It won't happen. Today it is written in 2010 and I am also running, the book has not been written or the papers have not yet been written how we will achieve this, but only to achieve this by 2020. This is a step, with this step we will do the most, because these are the greatest pollutants, millions and millions of vehicles that drive and pollute, Slovenia. It is right that this law provides that the subsidy is granted to natural persons because, to be fair, legal and other persons, they already have such benefits in value added tax. People don't need a car today. People need a car. We simply wanted to be in such an economic society, where a person cannot choose a profession 10 minutes from home, thousands of people have to drive to work either by public means or by private vehicles 60, 100 kilometers from home. That's why we have this traffic that even though the roads are new, they're barely swallowing up, and that's why we have this pollution. And it is right that this possibility of natural persons, legal and other persons has already been helped and will be helped and regulated through other forms of tax relief, and this will make the State of the Republic of Slovenia do a lot.’I already know what the Government will say. The Ministry of the Environment certainly agrees, I am sure of that. He's got to agree with that, and there's some department around, because that's useful. The government will say, "No, let's wait a while, we'll make a new law." A story I already have in mind, and I'm sure someone will come from the government to say it. This means reaffirming what the Slovenian National Party claims, especially in these two years that there is a lack of coherence between the government. He's not the devil. He can't speak differently from the Prime Minister. That's funny, but that's what's gonna happen, you'll see, in this bill. As I said at the outset, why not sit down with a trainee who has a good purpose supported by the Ministry of the Environment and make this law a reality, just perfect it in a second reading and continue to do so. And believe me, once again, I'm saying that this is the greatest benefit that we're going to achieve. I would rather that certain funds that are provided here, give, not give, I know that there are other areas where State resources need to be redirected, but you know, in life it is so that those areas will be taken care of in their own way by those responsible there, and we must move on in such areas. Now we can't just wait and "flash" all those holes that came through the recession and crisis. We have to move on. We must, in addition to solving the many problems that are, in fact, also in the future, solve the problems that the draft proposal foresees. To be fair. We can't just say it, but now we're going to shut down all the stores for ten years so we can patch up everything that's happened 10 years ago. It would be fair, it would be good, but you also have to look a little further, not just back. I will personally support this bill because it is at first reading because it brings a lot of benefits and is ultimately fair because give it - I will give it. People who have enough money are going to buy big cars that are big polluters, so they should pay a high tax on motor vehicles that we just accepted or you did, and I objected. To those people who don't have that much money, which is their car need to transport children to kindergarten, to transport them to work, etc., the country should also help with subsidies to at least have new vehicles, safe vehicles and will reduce environmental pollution in large numbers.And at the same time, thank God, I hope that we have all these steel boxes nice in the cubes and not made by guests to drag them out again in ten years. I hope that the National Assembly will say that, to this first proposal, I hope that the Government will take a reasonable look at it, even if we wait three or four months for a second reading, and align itself with the basic idea of this law and with a number of already completed solutions, that we will finally come to one fair decision, I stress once again that it is a day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Ljubo Germich will not discuss it. Mrs. Breda Bakan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. I think that this law, which is in spirit, I will say, is the country's green investment policy, but in my opinion and in my opinion also quite a few Members and Members of our Group, without being overworked, but the funds that are ultimately foreseen by the law after the calculation of the financial implications, are the budget of around 13 million and a half, directed in the wrong direction. At the moment, this country must urgently reduce fuel consumption for passenger cars in a different way, not by subsidising, I will just say, the production of cars that are produced elsewhere and not by us. That's the first problem. It is true that traders sell these cars in Slovenia, but the fact is that none of the electric cars are made in Slovenia for once. Thus, it is not the fruit of the work of Slovenian workers in the only car factory we have. Let's just drop it. Here, in any case, the European Union could accuse us of having some protectionist measures if we said that we would only subsidise those cars that they produce in Revos. I think that the funds, the EUR 13 million 500 000 is actually not such a small amount, should be directed for completely different purposes. If we are already directing them to subsidise transport, then it is necessary to subsidise transport, i.e. public transport, and not to buy cars. I have said several times in this Chamber that in Slovenia we have invested continuously in only one traffic operation, including personal traffic, unfortunately, more or less in car traffic alone over the past 18 years. We haven't encouraged, we haven't developed a railway network, we haven't developed rail public transport, but we've even allowed our individual lines to go out. And here we have certainly made a very serious mistake, a mistake that is now 18 years old and which is very slowly and with too little energy being eliminated. The second mistake we made was that we systematically focused on the construction of the highway cross and thus encouraged the inhabitants of Slovenia to transport mainly by passenger cars and with nothing else. The third mistake was that, because we did not develop the railway network, we encouraged freight traffic through Slovenia. This has greatly increased air pollution in our country, not only with carbon dioxide, says that we have increased carbon dioxide levels, but above all we have dramatically increased the concentration of dust particles, PM-10 and even more dangerous PM-2,5. We do nothing in this area, but there is no need for huge funds. Otherwise, this law provides for a measure that can be much cheaper than subsidising the purchase of electric vehicles. And this is subsidisation - personally, I would even suggest that the whole state pays for the installation of dust filters in diesel engines, because this is the fastest and most effective way to remedy the effects of diesel engines. When we talk about filters for dust particles in diesel engines, the closest and most effective measure is to prescribe and encourage, subsidise the installation of filters in trucks; this would be the right measure. Freight vehicles are now one of the largest air pollution generators in Slovenia. If I move somewhere else now. With €13.5 million, approximately 540 double-dwelling houses could be provided with energy rehabilitation. Energy recovery, which would reduce by at least 50 % the consumption of the necessary fuel, one or the other, for heating buildings. Let's ask ourselves how much less dust emissions, how much less nitrogen oxide emissions, how much less carbon dioxide emissions would be achieved in this way. This would provide direct work for small, I emphasise, small construction companies. Only with that kind of action. I think that, no matter what, we should redirect some public funds from certain areas, I will not say defence here, not at all move me to say something like that, but with investments that are significantly less important and necessary at the moment, such as reducing energy consumption, which is the fastest, most efficient and certainly also as a generator of additional employment, additional economic development is certainly the most efficient. When we think about how to reduce the flow of energy in Slovenia, how to definitely reduce energy consumption in Namreč, we need to know something that when we convert water energy, and in particular fossil fuels into electricity, we do not reduce the pollution of the atmosphere much. [[...]] We know, however, that most of the electricity we use to fill electric cars is given this moment from fossil fuels and from the nuclear power plant in Slovenia. I will vote against this law and I think it would be wise for us all to come together and think about supporting the development of our own industry and our own economy and our own knowledge, not supporting foreign producers.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thank you. As a candidate, Dr. Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I have listened to some arguments, but I would like to explain some things and perhaps some misunderstandings or misunderstandings about the measures of the law. Mr Petan compared the measure proposed by the SDS and the one we are proposing today. Yes, we agree that they are conceptually different, indeed, the past measure has taken a broader approach, but our aim is to take a narrow approach to achieve, in particular, the goal of replacing and restoring the Slovenian car park. Although it is true, it is entirely true that only those with an old vehicle can use it in such a measure. That's right. But the reason is that not only do we want to encourage consumption and through consumption and registration of new cars, we want to achieve a double effect: cleaner vehicles, but at the same time destroy older ones. This is why there is a condition that the vehicle must be destroyed at the same time. I agree that we may find out if the law will be supported at first reading, that we want to ease these conditions or turn them into a second reading. This is a conceptual comparison, which is the best solution. But I wanted to explain why it is a condition of destroying the old man, because the primary objective we want to achieve in the subsidy, buying a new one, replacing the old one. I do not fully agree that it is possible, and we also thought of this when we were preparing this bill, speculation in the sense that today I will buy an old vehicle, wait 3 years and then be able to benefit from subsidies. The duration of this law is 2 years, so basically the law will cease to apply as long as this 3-year period with which someone can buy an old vehicle, because it is one of the conditions that you have to own this old vehicle that you destroy for 3 years to buy an old vehicle, wait 3 years and then take advantage of the subsidy because it will no longer be subsidized. Unless the Council of State decides on a proposal from the Government in 2014, the law also provides for the adoption of new measures or a possible extension of the current measure. It was also a question, or doubt, of Comrade Žerjev, that this was a lobbyist law. I would like to point out here that the proposal for a law provides for the entry into force of 2012 because it is predicted that at that time we will have a number of electric vehicles, a number of hybrid vehicles and also a number of classic vehicles with extremely low discharges. We're actually gonna find some of them today. What can today look like a lobbyist law, because we can list on the hands of a hybrid, although vehicles with low discharges on the classic drive are already quite a few, and in 2012 there will be significantly more. And also the Government's Climate Change Service, which strongly supports this proposal of the law, has found it that way. At the end of this year and at the beginning of 2011, electric vehicles will start to appear on the European automotive market. Because manufacturers will not linearly place these vehicles on all markets at the same time, but will choose the most promising ones, the government itself has proposed to raise the projected subsidies for electric vehicles from EUR 4 000 to EUR 4 000 500. This, assessed by the Government's Climate Change Service, will be that appropriate measure, that appropriate subsidy, which will convince manufacturers to bring electric vehicles from the start to Slovenia, with the result, but will return later, also to the indirect and good effects for domestic vehicle manufacturers such as Revoz or electronic components manufacturers such as Hidria, Iskra Autoelectrica, or perhaps Equipment Level, which has already produced a prototype of its pure electric vehicle called Chebela and also intends to produce it massively. My colleague Urh said that it is not a priority to buy new expensive, environmentally friendly vehicles today during this crisis. This is more of an argument for the adoption of this law. First, because the law will enter into force in 2012, and I look optimistic. I think it is good that we all look optimistic about economic development also in our countries, and we expect that in 2012 these signs will already be that something is going better, that they will be significantly more visible. Furthermore, because I think that it is precisely during the crisis that new challenges and technological transitions should be considered. The time of crisis is an opportunity for entrepreneurs, but also for the country to encourage the technological transition to succeed. When everyone's up, all we can do is follow the train. Effectively and optimistically, we need to watch ahead when it is most difficult. And there's something else I'd like to point out. Experience in similar subsidies is positive from abroad. Mr Frangež earlier mentioned Italy, where subsidies are much more relaxed and in this case more similar to those proposed by colleagues from SDS, in Italy in 2009 only 7.8% of the average emissions of the fleet were improved in 2009. From 145 grams per km to 137.8 grams per km. We can achieve even better results with this much more targeted action. It was said by colleague Saiovic and colleague Pecan that we must promote public passenger transport. I couldn't agree more. I think we're on the same line here. However, the promotion of eco-public passenger transport and environmentally friendly passenger transport are not alternative measures, but complementary. And that's why, let's be honest, I also live in the city centre and quickly fall into that logic, let's face it, not everyone has the same access to public passenger traffic. In cities we have significantly better access, in rural areas, and we know what the urban design of Slovenia is, because we have a dispersed rural area, this access to public passenger transport is simply not. Or, in fact, it's impossible in practice. I lived until recently in the city, not far, 10 km from Kopra, St. Anton, where we have four buses a day for Koper. At 6 p.m., 8 p.m. and again at 2 p.m. and 16 p.m., practically useless public transport. But even more remote places are not economically profitable, serviced by public passenger transport. And that's where people can drive virtually the only way around is through personal transportation. And this measure targets this group. Of course, there are others who, because of their work or other circumstances, cannot use public passenger transport. There was a mention of the silence of the ministries. I'd like to make this very clear. The Ministry of Environment and Space and the Office of the Government for Climate Change strongly support this measure. A positive opinion was adopted on the Inter-Resort Government Committee for Economic and Sustainable Development on Tuesday. On Wednesday, the Government did not close the point where an opinion would be adopted. The government is currently officially without an opinion. It is also evident because it went through a committee led by Finance Minister Franci Križanič that we can expect a positive opinion from the Government. However, the Ministry-General and the Government's Department for Climate Change, which must deal specifically with climate change, strongly supports the measure. This measure was adopted in 2009 as part of the Government's operational programme, i.e. in a government document, the Government's operational programme for greenhouse gas reduction. However, since the carrier had not yet been designated, it has not yet been realized. Although we do not have an official government stamp, we can see that the Government is thinking in this direction and has included this measure in its operational programme. The key ministry and the Government for Climate Change support this. That is why I cannot agree with the statement, but I think it was expressed in good faith, because perhaps Mr Saiovic did not have all the information that ministries were silent or opposed. About the funds. The law does not provide for the level of funds. I've heard two numbers concerning the level of funds: 4.5 million, or even 13.5 million. I don't know where these two numbers come from, but the law does not foresee what the amount of these funds will be, but it leaves the budget open. It gives as an example to make a calculation of how much it would cost if you wanted to grant a thousand subsidies for electric vehicles and it's clearly 4500 times 1000 is 4 million and a half. But this is an example of showing that subsidies are not expenditure or, broadly speaking, are not expenditure. Why is it not expenditure or even income? Because in order to use the subsidy, the customer must first destroy the vehicle, where we know that there are some benefits, then he must buy a new, environmentally friendly, vehicle and pay VAT of 20% and DMV of at least half a percent. It then receives a subsidy of not more than 20 % of the value of the vehicle, excluding VAT. Therefore, at best, in order to make an effective use of the subsidy and obtain 20% of the value of the vehicle, the State will essentially reimburse it for VAT. But if we take a closer look, what goes out through the subsidies has already come back through the VAT, and additionally DMV and other benefits due to the destruction of vehicles. The argument is why we would encourage the production of cars that are produced elsewhere. Well, this relates to the crisis issue and the stimulus issue and the optimism and the move forward at the time of the crisis. As we say, the Level Equipment has already prepared its prototype. And we do not hide if the Slovenian market is promising and we will have good infrastructure for electric vehicles here, the possibilities for domestic producers of electronic components and final product, for example Revoz, will be increased so that they will be included in the process of production of electric vehicles by other manufacturers. Even now, even without this, Renault Twingo, a diesel version of 1.2 produced by Revoz, is essentially included in the scheme of these subsidies. Not only, but also domestic producers, if we want to look at the economic aspect, which, once again, I stress, is not our main priority, but if we also look at the economic aspect, we see that there are positive effects. In addition, the issue of freight transport and the promotion of improved environmental standards and freight transport. Of course, but once again a complementary measure, in order to be aware of the data, freight transport contributes 40% to greenhouse gases in transport in Slovenia and 60 % to passenger transport. So it is not true that freight transport, as far as CO2 is concerned, contributes to the majority. Let's say 40:60, so let's say they're pretty balanced somewhere. One last explanation. Slovenia has already received 2 warnings from non-action in reducing particulate matter and NOx. These subsidies, if adopted, will be a step forward in order to reduce the content of these gases and particulate matter and, as a result, we get a good argument here to convince the European Commission to stop the process of warnings and to actually recognise that Slovenia is also taking action in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you. The flower of Zalokar Orazem will not discuss. Dr. Peter Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Dear proposalant, fellow Member of Dr. Luke Jury! The support for this proposal appears to be very high. Indeed, it is very rare for me to experience a situation where only the proposer sits in Parliament alone, the entire coalition has obviously turned its back on you, probably listening in the hall, and the government is not here anyway. In short, so likely about supporting this law. But maybe I was thinking at the beginning, when they looked at the title, and they saw, "yeah, the bill on state subsidies to buy more environmentally friendly passenger motor vehicles," and they looked at it first and said, "Yes, that's what the Slovenian Democratic Party is investing in this law, and we're not going to support it anyway." But then they probably just looked at it, and they noticed that it said, "Reproposer of Luke Juri," and they became a little more careful, and they said, "but now at least we have to take a position." And this position is, as I am now hearing in the debate of coalition colleagues, quite different. It should probably be, and it would probably be very good to convince our colleagues in the Group of Social Democrats first that they might be united in supporting this law, but obviously there is no single support here. The government's out of control. There's no government. No matter what the support of one of the climate change services is, but in fact, the Government is today not one of the ministers to at least say orally what he thinks about this law, and that we may also get a feeling in this general debate. I happened to go online and look at one of the online portals, where it says nicely: "In the Slovenian Parliament there is an MP who is enthusiastic about electric vehicles. Korčan Luka Yuri [[SD]] already set up a company selling electric scooters before the election. Why is there no political will for electric cars? 'Politics wants it, but it's just words. It forgets that these processes can stimulate and at the same time help the economy. The electric cars are also an economic opportunity for our country', the MEP replied "This is on the blogger.com website. [[...]] And this, of course, is a Member who also has an obvious company that sells electric scooters, not anymore, yeah, well, it's gone, and then we won't. But whatever it is, it doesn't feel bad, that it's actually a suggestion that there are other desires for well-intentioned purposes, because when you look at the news at dinner, it writes, buy an electric car, the state gives you 4 thousand 500 euros, and the first sign as the proponent of Luke Jury. It is also necessary to avoid such concerns, but not – please do not accuse me of conspiracy theories, because of this – but someone can also get such a feeling that interests are different from those of others. Now that I'm trying to get back to the law itself. It seemed to me that the debate was actually going to take place in the direction of transport policy in that country and that there was so much in this proposed measure, it is said, a subsidy for the purchase of environmentally friendly passenger vehicles. Now, I would also understand the applicant's argument that this is not a systemic measure, that this is one of the pieces, including the position of his colleague and the Social Democrat he presented, but that, of course, this measure is not systematic, that it is complementary in a series of pieces to the measures that will lead to the country's overall environmental policy. Okay, okay, but if I recall the Slovenian Democratic Party's proposals at the end of the year when, in fact, we have introduced three laws with some incentive in the field of transport policy. Two of them were very much the ones that would encourage investment activities mainly in the field of railway modernisation, so is the Law on Priority Construction of Railways in the Republic of Slovenia and the Law on Priority Sections of Public Roads in the Republic of Slovenia, which is all the developmental eights, and, of course, when we proposed amendments to the Road Transport Act, where we wanted public passenger transport, that passenger traffic in cities could also develop outside the borders of the municipalities, we received the same answer, of course, for all three laws, that the Government would solve it systematically, so that the system law would come to the table, that the government would prepare it and when it was on the table, then the transport policy in that country would be resolved. But it is not just such a law, it is now, forgive perhaps a slightly worse term, which for some kind of "papagai" in every law proposed by the opposition or by the Slovenian Democratic Party, will be systematically resolved. Now that you are proposing, of course, if such a law came from our benches, I am sure that today we would have the government's position on the table, where the government rejects it and would say that it will be prepared with some system package, I don't know, legislation and everyone in the coalition would of course immediately repeat the government's position and say that this should not be resolved in a partial but systemic way. So it will also have to be a little consistent here when things are clearly looking at the proponents. Come on, then use the same vats when the laws are proposed, and perhaps find out that something was good. Now that I hear from your kind that, in fact, in the field of transport policy, nothing has been done, that public passenger transport is not that it has been underinvested in rail tracks, that everything has gone on highways, that there is too much freight. Look, now we can talk slowly about the promises before the elections, and now we can talk about the commitments of the current Minister of Transport, what will be done. We'll be halfway there. We'll be there slowly when we have to ask what happened. Where is the Law on Public Integrated Passenger Transport? Where's the solution? That minor change in the law that would allow a city bus to travel to the periphery across the borders of a congregation so that the congregations could connect. You rejected this because it's not a systemic approach. But there's not even a systemic approach, and everything's the way it is. The Law on the Construction of Priority Sections of Railway Connections, which was, of course, rejected, would give rise to a new system approach. One law has been promised, the law on the placement of line facilities in the space, which means that the law on the placement of roads into a space that we have been waiting for a very long time, and the new minister has not yet put it on the table, so it is not, and the national programme on modernisation and development of public railway infrastructure, which is not yet available, has already been promised in the government programme. In short, the questions will slowly come from the fact that something will happen and that it will speed up, to the point that we will slowly ask for answers. And then those questions will be in place. Therefore, dear coalition colleagues, we have tabled these laws. Not by wasting time, but by trying to help. In order, for example, to upgrade and adopt this idea in such a general debate. But why is this thing so much for prestige, I don't understand. Moreover, I was even more surprised when we were talking about public transport, because we, I think we all got a study on the future concept of the development of Ljubljana's public transport. Why? Of course, because, in fact, Ljubljana has become a regional hub, where virtually all Slovenia has been running almost daily. And what do we see in this strategy? We see that, in fact, even in a long-term vision, there is no longer a city railway. Ljubljana also cancelled trams in the long run, according to the local word. Although I heard the Minister of Transport say that he said the last time he said that they were thinking that there would be some urban transport in Ljubljana. So, you see how things have become disconnected between the state and the city. Of course, they're unrelated because there's a lack of systemic legislation. And here I also agree with Ambassador Pecan, who says, yes, public transport, yes, goods from the roads to the railways; I think these are now those priority measures. Although it is probably the same law that you place on the table on behalf of the applicants today, it is said to subsidise environmentally friendly vehicles, it probably falls within a framework. But now I'm going to say it like the government would have refused if we were proposing, yes, but put it in the system frame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to Dr. Luke Jury, more for a joke, Mr Verlič, when you mentioned earlier who must be here, you forgot that there must also be those who assist in the work of the assembly and were almost in the majority compared to the Members and Members of the Law. Mr Luka Juri, take note of this fact as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Just a brief explanation on the issue of my potential private interests. I think it's right to explain that. The law applies to passenger vehicles of category M1, i.e. cars. The company I founded, which is no longer mine, is, and as far as I know, still deals with bicyclists, engines, scooters. So, this has nothing to do with cars. Just so much so that there is no doubt that this law could benefit this former company in any way. But it's right that you pointed out that I had the opportunity to explain. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Jerič – he will not debate. Mr. Willie Rezman will not discuss it. Mag. Franz Žnidaršič – will not debate. Silven Majhenič – he will not debate. Mr. Ivan Grill, have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I mean, I also share the view that, given the importance of the topic, the law itself is certainly very weak, I think it would be worth more attention, especially by the coalition and also by the government. As we recall, in the previous term, opposition Members have always demanded that the meeting be suspended in the event that the Minister or State Secretary was late. There are no such requests on our part in this mandate, but it would be very useful to hear explanations from the Government, the Ministry, and also to hear any discussions or comments we have. As I said, such a law is certainly a sure idea, or the very idea of this marriage, to greet. Because environmental awareness is too small in Slovenia, but there are not enough measures in particular. Therefore, the indications, in particular by the proposers, what has been done in this mandate since the adoption of the declaration on climate change to this law, as it is. It can say that, although it harms nothing, it does not bring concrete results, both directly and indirectly. I'd like to start here with the next quote. See, on 22 May 2009, the National Assembly rejected the proposal for a law tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which had a different title, which was the Law on Economic Aid during the Economic Crisis by promoting private consumption. In the second part of this law, we have also tried to touch on these topics, I can say, a more resourceful, simpler, and, above all, a more efficient system, with more concrete indications than this bill, which we are dealing with today. And in order to refresh the memory, the drafters of this law, which we are considering today, are called the Proposal for a Law on State Subsidies for the Purchase of Environmentally Friendly Motor Vehicles, are four SD-type applicants, and all of these four proponents have rejected the Slovenian Democratic Party's law on 22 May by reasoning that there is no means to implement such a law. Now you will say whether or not it was heard, yes, but now we have a new law or a new law that has been passed, which has raised the tax on motor vehicles for those who are slightly less environmentally acceptable. See, it is true, this law has been passed, but it would have been adopted, I could say, systematically or intentionally, to make those funds that contribute to the budget of more environmentally-friendly vehicles or less acceptable to those funds then to purchase or subsidise such more environmentally-friendly vehicles. That law was adopted exclusively at the time in order to increase funds in the State budget, again by taxpayers. In this law, which we are now considering, by the motioners, I must say that all the explanations are based on the assumption itself. Let's say we have a thousand subsidized vehicles. Look, we can't have a law based on certain assumptions. The assessment of the financial implications of the State budget must also be specifically defined. There's nothing here. There were certain assumptions. On these assumptions, a colleague from the SD, who is the proposer, did not know where she came from with a figure of EUR 13 million. Obviously, on the basis of this assessment, EUR 4 million a year and this law is supposed to be three years, it amounts to EUR 12 million and 13 million. My colleague, Mr Juri, says that our law, which you rejected on 22 May, only encourages consumption, but does not contribute to allowing, encouraging or requiring the destruction of environmentally-controversial vehicles with that law. That's not true. The law that we have proposed has also made it clear that the subsidy can only be granted by the natural person who brings a certificate that it is an environmentally disputed car means more than 10 years and with such exemptions that this vehicle has been destroyed and could therefore also receive a subsidy amounting to a thousand euros or a proposal. And we also clearly cited 15,000 subsidies. You didn't say anything in this law. This law provides that the maximum subsidies are to be granted to an electric vehicle. It is true that only a vehicle does not bring discharges into the atmosphere, but we have to ask ourselves whether the indirect effects of those who produce electricity can be even worse than a vehicle that has, say, 110 grams. In Slovenia it is mainly by thermal power generation. Unfortunately, they're still a very large polluter. This dilemma, whether it makes sense that it is for such vehicles that we have the largest subsidy envisaged or that you have foreseen or not, that it can be very questionable. The law states that it should only apply until 2012. Here, I would warn you, the proponents, that you're a bit of a math man. You've stated that marriage is valid for two years, but it's not true. If it enters into force 1. 1. 2012, ending 31st. 12. 2014 is three years. It means the law's been in force for three years. Still, I wonder why it's only been valid for three years. Three years is a relatively short time. I am sure that if such a law were to be brought to life, or with similar content, it would probably not be possible for people to regain consciousness after three years in order to make a more massive decision to buy such cars, for this is probably the goal of putting as many older cars in recycling as possible and of getting new ones. Identifying the applicant or assessing that the Government should support this or at least the Government's Climate Change Service, if I remember correctly. I believe this idea is supported by each and every one of us. But moral support isn't enough. Not bad, but that's not enough. There should certainly be more done by the Government. I have no difficulty in supporting this idea, because I am sure that even under this law, which you have now proposed here, which is, with the content as much as is probably unacceptable, especially because there are many shortcomings, there are no estimates of the resources used, it is not enough in there. But it would probably be possible to supplement it with amendments in order to live. However, I regret that we did not have this law, which we proposed on 22 May, that was one year ago, and I would probably see in this year whether the shortcomings that we could now remove from that law were likely to be in the processing or processing of several thousand environmentally-controversial cars, and that we had 15,000 vehicles on Slovenian roads, at least that much, that were envisaged, less environmentally-controversial vehicles. So there would certainly have to be a lot more to be done here, it is likely that the law will not be supported primarily by the coalition or at least by the coalition. It is regrettable, however, that there is no obedience of the government here, that there is no obedience by the coalition, now there are at least two candidates, you were alone before, opposition us more, which means that too little attention is given to this topic, too little seriousness. However, I am also pleased by the explanations by the proponents, Comrade Juri, that you have said that you no longer have a company dealing with the sale of electric bicycles, otherwise two-wheelers, because this has been seen in public as a bad taste and this has flown to all Members that we are forcing legislation that would directly or directly benefit us, so that I would never want the public to get such a feeling, and it is right to explain it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Slapper, not at all. Mr. Luka Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Chairman. The opportunity for me to answer two questions raised by my colleague Grill in the event of arguments. First of all, why is the proposed law only for three years? For two reasons. First, because we want to raise interest with these subsidies in the first stage of recognition, regardless of whether the Government Service is also preparing a measure in this direction, but the infrastructure for electric vehicles or plug-in hybrids is still lacking. This year we will see some results in some congregations. I know that the mayor and fellow Member Mirko Brulc are already preparing concrete measures in Nova Gorica, but he is not the only municipality, a variety of people. And that's positive. So encourage interest in such vehicles at a time when they are even more expensive and when infrastructure is more lacking. In the law itself, if you look at it, it says that the Government must report on the effects of this law six months before the end of force and propose any further action. What it also says between the lines is to propose, if it detects actual positive effects, it may also be that the law is extended. That's why three years. The issue of indirect emissions, an important issue of indirect emissions of electric vehicles. For charged batteries, of course, electricity is needed, which is produced elsewhere, including by a thermal power plant. Not only that, but also the production of battery batteries is energy-intensive and there is also emissions. In any case, the efficiency, the energy efficiency of an electric vehicle, I am talking about energy efficiency, is higher for an electric vehicle with an internal combustion engine, because of the design of the engine itself. The electric motor is already in the design, already at the time of the generation of the motor, which can then be transferred directly to the bicycle or today's concepts actually put the engine on the wheel itself. Two or four engines on each wheel, that there is no loss in transmissions, which of course has a vehicle on a classic engine on internal combustion. That's the first explanation. Secondly, in any case, we have on one side a vehicle with a classic engine that causes direct discharges in cities, especially in cities where it is the largest vehicle, of course, is the most traffic in cities. On the other hand, we have a vehicle that fills with electricity, which does not cause direct discharges, where most people are in cities. Depending on how electricity is produced, what CO2 emissions are then in electricity production. We have to admit that, although we could be much better in Slovenia, in France, for example, 80% of electricity comes from nuclear energy, so without CO2 emissions, but also in Slovenia we have to admit that some of this energy comes from hydro power plants or from nuclear power plants, and therefore not all electricity produced by CO2, but one part, I think 45, 40%. I am aware that if TES 6 is built, this share will increase. I'm not comfortable with that. However, I hope that a second block of nuclear power plant will be built, precisely because we increase the share of energy produced without emissions. But in the end, the electric vehicle has other positive properties, allowing the vehicle to be used in the so-called'smart grid', i.e. electric networks that can measure and deliver electricity where necessary, direct for a second and for a minute electricity prices, so that where there is more demand, this consumption is reduced by increasing prices. And what role do electric vehicles play here? Electric vehicles can also be essentially large batteries that are charged at night when the price of electricity is the lowest, because consumption is also low, and during the day in filling places instead of filling, they drain electricity back into electricity grids. And that's essentially how we have what we now have in Posoča, over, I think it's called a hydroelectric pumping plant, when at night the water is pumped using electricity to the top, and the afternoon is going down, and that's how the electricity goes back into the system, but it comes back when we need it most, but we filled that water and we used electricity when it's least used, so at night. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u67	Thank you. The word has magic. It's a crane. He's quitting. There's no Lord Possession. The trofenics aren't. Neither does the turnip. Nor did Mr. Anderlich. Mr. Franco Yuri is not here. Mr. Frangež, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. In this relatively short debate, we have heard the proposals of this law in favour of this law, as well as the views which oppose this law. At the end of this debate, it is appropriate to draw the line and find out what is the result of these sums, minuses and pluses. I must say that the concerns expressed by some of the debaters did not really convince me at any point. Even more so, it seems to me that they have tried to maintain a certain point of view, that it is an incomplete solution that is not part of some comprehensive regulation, and I personally am sure that both do not. This marriage is not a long marriage, you read it in two minutes, but it has all the ingredients that are needed to make the marriage effective. And that's our goal. We do not need long laws in this country, we need laws that will be able to effectively pursue the goals set by the National Assembly. We have already set these climate targets, which are probably high in our priorities, and have defined these objectives as very ambitious in international terms as well. In several articles of this Act, we learn what the purpose of the law is, who are beneficiaries, what are the conditions, what is the extent of the subsidy in terms of the volume of emissions, the correct driving method of obtaining the subsidy in the Republic of Slovenia’s organic fund is the method of awarding, i.e. one procedure. Furthermore, more detailed provisions on the implementation of the procedure are laid down by the Minister of the Environment in cooperation with the Minister responsible for transport. So, the law has everything it takes to effectively pursue this goal, and that is, to change the structure of the vehicles that drive our roads. Secondly, the proposal is not comprehensive. I think it is much better than writing long, stretching laws, with which we rarely solve anything, to prepare individual solutions, individual measures, which are undoubtedly integrated into a comprehensive strategy. I have already stressed in the views of the Group of Members where this integration is. First, when the Government adopted the operational greenhouse gas reduction programme last July, it also identified subsidisation of the purchase of environmentally friendly vehicles as one of the measures of such integrated policy. Public passenger transport, which some have also discussed. I absolutely agree that the efficiency and greater attractiveness of modern public passenger transport, not only road, but also rail, as well as some alternatives, such as the magnetic trains they test in Germany, are ultra light trains that do not require both expensive infrastructure and railways as we know them in Slovenia. All of these are smart alternatives that can be used to a large extent by alternative energy sources. At Heathrow Airport in Great Britain, London, they are now building a modular design of fully individualised public passenger transport, fully electrified, powered by solar energy installed on the rails of this system. Personal rapid transit call it Heathrow. On YouTube, type in this shortcut and you will see very interesting simulations showing what is the perspective of public passenger transport. And I agree. If you ask me, Europe will close urban centres within 10 years because of the tightening of the emission policy. In some places, this trend already prevails strongly. In Slovenia we may not yet have the courage to take such measures. And because garage houses have already been mentioned today, if you ask me, it is a mistake today to build garage houses in the center of the city. We need garage houses on the outskirts of the city, and from this garage house to the city centre we need extremely efficient, fast, attractive, modern passenger traffic, which will encourage especially those who, every day in working migrations, which are also large in Slovenia, come to some place to leave the car on the outskirts of the city, thus not burdening the city's air. And by the way, Ljubljana and Maribor are dust particles among the more polluted cities in Europe. So it does not hold that we are, by all environmental criteria, at the top of Europe, by which we are also at the bottom. And these are exactly the problems that we are trying to resolve in the context of this law. In short, I think that this solution is good, that it is part of a comprehensive approach that we advocate for many to ensure the effective transition of Slovenia to a low-carbon society through various sectoral policies. Transport produces 30% of all emissions produced in the country and therefore we need additional measures in other areas. In energy, which has already been mentioned, and I agree with both predecessors, in agriculture, which is an extremely large pollutant with emissions and where we also need a major structural change in terms of what Slovenian agriculture produces, so that it will not be so wasteful, in industry, and so on, that we can actually get to the whole of these oil flows that we are creating today with greenhouse gas emissions. We need action in each of these areas. However, I think that these measures are mutually integrated into the overall vision to be presented by the low-carbon strategy of the Republic of Slovenia with the law on climate change. However, there is nothing wrong with each of these measures being planned under separate policies in this respect. In short, I believe that this law promises one important change, one important incentive, which, as a complement to other measures, including the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, provides an incentive to change consumer habits. Today it's already becoming part of it. Look, years ago, he was the one with the big pitcher, the scary guy, even in my eyes. Today it's the guy who drives – sorry to name a direct car – Toyota Prius or a bike. There is also a significant transformation in our values, and that is what is important. Previously, some of you mentioned scooters, I'm driving around Ljubljana with an electric scooter, and I have to say that it feels incredibly good when you see with what interest they're actually observing such alternative vehicles that we haven't been used to. And this is something that needs to be supported, this is a trend that we need to build on, because it reflects some valuable change in our society as well, which is necessary if we are to avoid the harmful consequences of the climate change that we have caused and which pose an extraordinary threat to humanity, but at the same time I am sure, with smart politics, also an exceptional opportunity for us, for our environment, for our people and also for our economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Grill, I can't give you a replica. Do you have a procedural proposal? No, you were not appointed, but there will be plenty of time to share among Members after the discussion has been concluded. We're practically at the end. There's no government to give her a word. Mr. Luka Yuri, would you like a word as a proponent? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I'm not going through the whole argument again. First of all, I will thank those Members and Members of Parliament who have followed the debate. Not only here, but also all those who follow the debate in their offices through the audio system. Now, we went through the law, found some concerns, but I hope we were able to respond to those concerns. Since the answers are a question of promoting public passenger transport, why this is not always possible or why it is not taken into account for the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia and why these measures are complementary. Questions about the promotion of foreign producers when we found that Revoz could also have some of these, and not only Revoz, but also producers of electronic components Iskra electrica, Hidria or Equipment Ravne, manufacturer of the Chebel electric prototype. Then, we have found that this is not the issue of the current promotion of consumption – but at this point everyone would choose to buy new cars because of this subsidy, because that is not the goal. The original goal, as we said, is to replace the fleet. However, the subsidy will most likely convince a lot of people who decide to buy a new car that they prefer to buy a little bit more expensive, but because it will be subsidized, it will be worth it, and it will be a much nicer car to the environment. As the Government's Climate Change Service says, it will most likely encourage manufacturers to include Slovenia in those markets where electric vehicles will initially be introduced and may also increase the opportunities for Revoz and other producers to be involved in this production process. Then it was said that the marriage was too small. I agree that a law, even such a law as we have written in full by Members, can be substantially defined so that the Legislative and Legal Service can contribute to making the law clearer, so that your colleagues can contribute to some things being better clarified. We can do all this in a second reading if we decide to go through the law. As I can see, the ratio of force, in the notes, in the National Assembly, I think there's some hope for this marriage, not much. There is some hope, it depends on all Members and Members when we vote tomorrow. An online conversationalist said to me a few minutes ago, "I hope this marriage will go through because ultimately this law means a change in the way we live." Symbolically, yes, as I said before, and that is, in my opinion, very important. Yesterday, before yesterday, you were a dude if you had a BMW and a big SUV, today, if you got a bike, or at least an environmental vehicle. These mental movements that we're doing, which we've already done, otherwise there was quite a bit of controversy, but also with the Motor Vehicle Tax Act, where we have positive effects in the first data. We'll see how it goes. The first data shows – unfortunately, I don't have them here before me if I don't even introduce them. Even more so, where we say so, the country wants to encourage Slovenia and the inhabitants and residents to take the technological step forward and move towards environmental behaviour and a green way of life. And that's why the country is willing to do something, even by doing something. And these subsidies are what I'm talking about. After all, the state makes something to get a lot. So we can all get a lot together. For if a person does not pollute his transport, not only does he benefit himself, because he may not have to buy fuel, but he can charge electricity and it is significantly cheaper, but he benefits everyone, because he does not pollute our common good, it is our common air in which we all live together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u71	Thank you. Since all the speakers who have declared themselves willing have already received the floor, and the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I see the hands, I open the application. You all have five minutes. Mr. Luka Yuri is giving up. Mr. Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u72	Nicely greeted! It'll be too many minutes, but no matter what I say, I've been driving a hybrid car called Hondo for two years, driving around Europe with her. When there were restrictions in the individual cities, even in the neighbouring Gorica, if we remember, with us a couple and so on, I did not have any obstacles to transport around the city. In Nova Gorica we will also arrange filling stations for the power supply of such vehicles. I think it's something special and the future I see in it. A person who, I don't know, comes to work at a distance of 50 kilometers, joins his vehicle in this filling place and drives home after work, for free. For the cost of electricity consumed in this filling place by a vehicle is negligible and can be clearly covered by public lighting. I am pleased that in this proposal, Article 2 is very important, setting out precisely the conditions for the subsidy for the purchase of a new vehicle. It is said that with an old vehicle, there is no possibility of speculation that one family would exaggerate and drive old and new cars on electric power due to subsidies. This particularly strengthens me in the fact that this proposal is a good one. There are also more and more young people among us, high school students who, I am sure, will use electric scooters for several reasons in the coming years. I will not now talk about what this contribution is for environmental protection, but not least for the budget of this student, who will also be transported free of charge to school and home. The standard is like that, and we can't avoid it, and we can't avoid it, and it's good that it is. I will therefore be happy to support this bill's proposal in the belief that the country will be able to secure these funds and that we will be something as special in Europe as we are in football. I hope that Switzerland and Slovenia will be in the finals and then they can boast! [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you very much. See, once again, that there will be no misunderstanding, I myself, as well as the Slovenian Democratic Party, strongly support the idea of such a law, because, finally, we are a better law than this one, on 22 May last year you rejected it by the coalition. But look at where this inconsistencies is, or, I'll say, duplicity primarily of you in the coalition, including you proposing. All four of you who are signed here have rejected our marriage, with, I may say, very incomprehensible explanations that there is no provision for where the resources will be provided. Now, my dear fellows, if the SDS were to pass this law, which you have now tabled, the leadership of the National Assembly would certainly not accept and reject this law. Why? The mandatory component of the law that we submit is an assessment of the financial implications for the budget. What did you write, my dear fellows? The law provides that the amount of funds allocated for subsidies shall be fixed in the annual budget. Look, then you're basically here on some assumptions, let's say it's a thousand subsidies. Look, these are the assumptions. There's no definition of how much of this is going to happen anywhere. In our law it was written, only 15,000 subsidies per thousand euro would be granted. See, here is this inconsistencies and once again, in order for the Slovenian Democratic Party to introduce such a law, it would certainly be rejected by the leadership of the National Assembly. So much for the correctness of the procedures. We know on the basis of what excuses our proposals have been rejected. Mr. Frangez, you said we didn't convince you. You must convince us that your proposal would, of course, also be supported. Look, I will support him, but even though we can see that such a text as it is, flawed, truly flawed, which I believe can be complemented, of course, by amendments. There's a lot of inconsistencies, there's still a lot of confusion, and there's probably going to be a lot of study to be done. But here, look again, if last year we had proposed such a law with the same effects, we would have been in office for one year, and we would have had a lot of experience of such implementation in Slovenia, of course. And there is something else that you argued that the law that was passed without our support, the tax on motor vehicles, had positive effects. Look, he had positive effects, but for what? For the state budget. See, these people's awareness shows, however, are increasing, many are also willing to give a little more for electrical devices or cars or a lot more, heating up to cause less emissions. But look, the law, the tax on motor vehicles, would have a significant increase, I can also say a positive effect on people's awareness that they would buy environmentally less controversial cars if the funds paid by paying more taxes on environmentally-controversial cars were exclusively allocated to subsidising the purchase of this. And here, look, there was the biggest flaw in that law, and I still think that we should think in this direction, too, that the real means of purpose that are gathered in this way are given to that end. Then that would have been that positive cycle. Look, I just regret once again that this law or such an idea was not adopted last year. We will, at least I will support your marriage as it is, but I'm afraid they won't support the coalition, but maybe it'll put pressure on the government, so that maybe now the singing idea that they'll draw up a system law will come true. But I'm afraid we won't be able to wait for our environment to be polluted with joy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting tomorrow, 18. 6. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. DOCTOR OF THE DAY – FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE SLOVENIA RADIOTELIZATION LAW. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members of Parliament are first-signed mags. Mr Richter requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Majdi Širca, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u76	Good-bye! Thank you for your word. In November 2008, I said at the hearing that I reject any media regulation that would allow for opinion discrimination, force the media into dependence and homage the freedom of expression that it is alpha and the omega of every media policy. And also that RTV Slovenia must not be politically subordinated to the authorities, but must serve the public. Organs should be independent, professional and should represent different social groups. The amount of the RTV contribution must also not depend on political will. It is necessary to update technology and so on. This was in November 2008 and, in fact, at the Ministry of Culture, we have followed these objectives - to ensure greater autonomy of public Radiotelevision, to optimise the substantive and business activities and to bring them into line with the acquis of the European Union. Therefore, the proposal for an RTV Act was created by means of a long-standing debate between the members of the broad expert committee on the preparation of amendments, by consultation with legal experts, on the basis of a public debate of the interested public, by public presentation of opinions in the National Assembly and by coordination with the trade unions, and by taking into account the legal framework of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union. The proposal didn't come up overnight. He faced numerous and diverse views, including those that exceeded only the regulation of RTV Slovenia, as he opened a discussion on the necessary reform of the public sector. In a way, we were plowing the ice to find solutions to the ostensibly, for decades, of the established way in which public institutions function. In this light, too, the RTV Slovenia proposal is an important structural progress, in the direction of effective, responsible and given the specific situation of the public media, also a balanced way of corporate governance. RTV Slovenia is only one. The central public media remains of national importance, which must provide as much open communication space as possible. The bill retains the basic organisational structure, but changes it by content and competence, in a way that ensures the optimum functioning of the organisation in both substantive and business work. Of course, the law does not change those solutions that have been introduced in the past and have proved successful. RTV Slovenia is changing, changing the status form from a public institution to a separate legal person of special cultural and national importance. This is a special sui generis arrangement that fully regulates the operation of RTV Slovenia in the law on RTV Slovenia. However, for situations which may not be regulated by law, it refers to the subsidiary application of legal provisions which, by the way, summarise the arrangements applicable to institutions. This allows a sufficient distinction between highly guaranteed legal certainty and acute institutional arrangements, so that a new way of corporate governance can be possible, with much increased flexibility, and also with increased responsibility for members of RTV Slovenia. A large majority of the constitutional elements of the institution's arrangements are otherwise regulated in the proposal. It is the status of employees, property, corporate governance system for the personal responsibility of members of RTV Slovenia, and this does not affect the choice of the form in which public broadcasting operates. The Council of RTV Slovenia will consist of 15 members. The President of the Republic of Slovenia appoints two members, one on a proposal from the Italian and Hungarian national communities, one on a proposal from registered religious communities, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia appoints five members, the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts one, the National Council for Culture of the Republic of Slovenia one, the National Institute, the Centre for Information and Cooperation of Developmental Government Organizations one, the Rector's Conference, this is the right representation of the University of One, the employees three. The Supervisory Board will have 7 members, the administration will consist of 5 members, the staff of RTV Slovenia will no longer be public servants, the RTV contribution will be coordinated with the growth of living needs, for the operation of the third programme, the parliamentary programme [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] a transitional period. [[...]] Hereinafter, more on the arrangements that bring welcome changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the Group of Members. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister with co-workers! We have been waiting for a new law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia for a long time. Maybe even too long. If we follow current events and look back and look at today's state of affairs in this public institution. Of course, we also know why the preparation of the marriage was so long, why it lasted more than a year. If I'm a little cynical, I can say that because the marriage wasn't prepared and written by one person, as it was in the last few changes, of course, then it's very easy. This time, the Minister has included an extremely large number of media professionals from the legal field, civil society, the public concerned, and coordination has been a long time, and discussions have therefore been a long time, and there have been many such issues among them, where there has been no way to achieve unification at all points. However, the fact is that the comments, concerns and questions raised also in the public hearing of the draft law have been taken as fully as possible into account by the applicants. For example, as an amendment, they have redefined the status regime of the institution, as well as increased the composition of the Council from 9 to 15 members in coordination with the RTV trade unions, and put solutions in place meaningfully in the draft law that we have before us. And what does the new law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia bring to us new, what are the main purposes, objectives of change? First of all, what we believe in the Zares Group is most important is that we are confident that the law will bring a lot better in the exercise of greater responsibility in the exercise of autonomy, commitment to the public and more transparent business. Of course, it is also possible to create quality and diverse programmes that will not only be in terms of the taste of capital, the market or the majority sometimes relatively uncritical demand of the public. This, of course, also confirms the commitments made under the Coalition Treaty. And we must be aware that we are talking about public television and that it has many tasks and missions in the fields of culture, information, minorities, sport and so on. Its only objective cannot be just likeness and ratings, but especially this part of which I have just talked about, this function, which is inherent to television when it serves the public interest. One major and also key change is the transformation of the status from a public institution to a separate legal person of special cultural and national importance. This is a bit new, it is probably right to devote more time to it, but it certainly follows the momentum of a coalition commitment that says that RTV must take over and have a more flexible organisational structure. The change in status is also important due to the inevitable fact that RTV is carrying out an activity that I have already discussed and also on the market and is entangled in a real state and must also follow the rules of the environment in which it operates. RTV carries out activities carried out by other televisions for profit. But the goal of public television, as I have said many times before, is different. It is some sort of regulation and balancing of this public interest and partly the expected market activity, where we believe it must always be public in the first place. What does a new status form mean and allow? In our view, in particular, the independence of the public media is greater, as the Council of RTV, on behalf of the State, fully implements the rights of establishment and the employees of RTV will no longer be public servants and public television will also manage the property on its own. The new regime will also allow public television to be more responsive and more flexible. We do not claim that on Radiotelevision Slovenia will all work apriorously better once the law is passed, that everything will work without mistakes. No one can guarantee that. The fact is, there will also be a lot of dependence on people who will be given the tools if I say so, given by the new Radio Television Act. This tool, in the view of the Group, is indeed such that we can expect a more efficient, better, quality, more transparent operation. The law imposes greater responsibility on the management bodies and also on the individuals they make up, as is the responsibility of the members of the management and control bodies in the shares companies. If I can draw a link here with the current situation, I am sure that the stories we are following in these days, when we hear that Mr Granda, President of the Programme Council, has signed with Mr Guze just before the end of his term with the Director-General, I do not know what to say, the issue is, perhaps also illegal, harmful, unhygienic, said the Minister, the contract of employment, in the sense that the possibility of 72 gross emoluments was opened with the annex. Which is about 300,000 euros out there. And that, of course, can also be the case, for example, with the removal, due to procedural errors and perhaps not as he said, of political executions. What can we say to that? What we can think about is what payers, subscribers might think. And that, fellow opposition, was done by the people you put up, Mr Guzei, Mr Granda and so on. But in this case, you do not seem to be concerned about illegality, poor management, waste and irrationality, but you could say that there is an unreasonablely high privilege which, after what we have been able to examine, no one in the public sector knows in our group. No leading civil servant in the public sector has such a royal contract or annex as to expect such severance payments as or as Mr Guzei and Mr Granda had imagined. Interestingly, no one has ever convened an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, given how big things are, problematic things. You hope to ask subscribers, viewers and viewers of Slovenian radio television if they believe that Mr. Guzei deserves such a retirement after four and a half years. What do you think the answer would be? That he deserves that kind of retirement? A retirement that is even higher than the retirement that the tycoon Boško Shrott afforded. What we can think of such actions, I don't think there's much to explain. Let's go back to a new law that I hope will prevent. A sensible and rational solution also seems to us in Zares, whereby the authorities have fewer members. So their composition has been changed. Thus, in the main body, that is, in the Council of RTV, they are once again given a greater role by a representative organisation of civil society, which the previous opposition or writer of the previous law, Mr Grims, on the basis of political designations, on the basis of leaf harvests, if we remember a little while ago, has removed from this body. The National Assembly will appoint a post if we take that what the National Assembly designates is in some way a political omen, just a third, i.e. five members of the Council, through a public call from non-governmental organisations. If I may recall, in the existing law, the National Assembly appoints as many as 16 members of the 29th, if we do not count the 5 members that they appoint directly on a proposal from a political party. Particular attention is also paid to the urgent technological modernisation, the provision of new audiovisual and information services, so that RTV can successfully monitor the development and diversity of digital activities. At the time of the adoption of the current law, we argued in the opposition that the height of the RTV contribution should not depend on the political motivation, the will of the government. Remember, in 2008, the then coalition, or Janša's government, did not want to raise RTV contributions due to the upcoming elections, despite the fact that all financial indicators indicated that RTV was sinking to a negative state. The RTV financial hole was patched up by the current Minister, Mrs Majda Shirca, or the current government, without political omens, without political bills, even though the leadership may not be compatible, if I say so, with the current coalition. Therefore, with a view to avoiding the Government's intervention on a case-by-case basis, the amount of the contribution is to be re-coordinated with the increase in the cost of living, not more when it pleases or does not. In order to make market operations more transparent, the proposal for a law is also fully aligned with the Law on Transparency of Financial Relations and the separate recording of various activities. This is also a very important matter, for the law also includes guards so that there will be no known anomalies. If I only mention one thing, it will no longer be possible to finance TV novels of the type of passion from funds which were otherwise earmarked for technological modernisation in the financial plan. One of the more exposed changes is the exclusion of RTV employees from the public servants system. Years ago, at the turn or at the start of the talks to include journalists among public servants, we witnessed a tremendous opposition to this solution, a dissatisfaction. At that time, they could only read that it meant that or that politics wanted to subjugate journalists. Today, we are somewhat surprised to see that journalists want to maintain the status of public officials, public officials. That surprises us. In what and why this solution is different for journalists at this time, better, more acceptable, why they want it, when they say humiliating status, today it is no longer a problem. However, the law does allow sufficient safeguards for all to retain their rights without any reduction of any rights or, in particular, their level of wages at the level they have so far. For all rights remain in force at the same height until the adoption of a new collective agreement, which requires coordination with the unions and also their consent. We believe that there are enough safeguards here for any substantial reduction of rights, or even, to say the least, of public broadcasting revenues, because of the transition to a different status, it is not possible to expect. What remains open in the bill, and what else must we discuss, since we have and are having a first debate on this law today? In the Group of Members, we really believe that one of these things, which is still open or debateable in some way, is the question of how many representatives of nationalities in the world are resolved, and we believe that the standard of constitutionally recognised rights of minorities is not being lowered and that, of course, the effectiveness of smaller bodies should also be taken into account, which, of course, would also be a representative of minorities. We believe that the solution to the division of the mandate is appropriate, as we must take into account that the number of members of the board of the institution is significantly decreasing. We will also have to discuss the proper regulation and placement of the 3rd parliamentary programme within the National Assembly. Here I think there will also be a few more discussions about the most meaningful solution. In spite of everything in the Group, we really believe that the law is well prepared to offer quality and time-appropriate solutions that will bring a lot of good public television to RTV. It should be accepted as soon as possible, even because of what people like to hear, a truly better programme in terms of public function, which, of course, is committed to in the first place and on its basis, public RTV. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposal for a law and we believe it is appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u80	Dearly-respected lady minister with co-workers! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the Proposal for a Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia needs a number of amendments and additions, or we must acknowledge that we expected a more specific, appropriate and coordinated proposal with trade unions. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we proposed on the draft bill that the Council of RTV Slovenia should consist of a larger number of members, that representation should be appropriate in terms of diversity of interests and that it should be composed primarily of representatives of civil society. Our opinion is that the Council of RTV Slovenia should be the first body to be dedicated to programme functions and to oversee their implementation. However, representatives of the public, stakeholders and civil society organisations should propose their representatives. The management and political influence of the owner, the founder, are, in our view, sufficiently ensured through the Supervisory Board and the Administration. We are pleased that the applicants have also taken into account our comments on the third programme of Television of Slovenia and that the proposal is now governed by the so-called parliamentary-information programme, which is intended for the direct transmission of the meeting of the National Assembly and its working bodies, to broadcast the recordings of these meetings where it is not possible and comprehensively to inform the public of other parliamentary developments, including the functioning of the Council of State and of the European Parliament. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the third parliamentary-information programme, with an increasing number of viewers, raises democratic standards in Slovenia and allows greater plurality of Slovenian media space, as direct transmissions allow viewers to create a realistic picture of the current developments in Slovenian politics. The Slovenian People's Party delegation also gave an opinion to the Minister on the fact that we are in no way in agreement with the first proposed provision that the debts and guarantees of RTV Slovenia should not exceed 50% of the annual amount of RTV contribution paid by the debtors. In our view, this is certainly too much, so we are pleased that the applicants have taken our proposal into account and thus reduced the percentage to 25% of the annual amount of the RTV contribution. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, however, we are still concerned about the unprecedented fate of RTV employees, because they should no longer be public servants, as proposed by law, which is why even employees in RTV Slovenia disagree. According to a survey conducted by the RTV Slovenia Coordination of RTV Slovenia among journalists in all organizational units, we can see that a good 66% have been declared that RTV employees continue to remain public servants. The survey also showed that the transformation of RTV Slovenia into a separate legal person of special cultural and national importance supports only 22% and is opposed by good 77% of the journalists surveyed. With these results, we have great doubts as to the extent to which the proposal for a law has been aligned with the representative unions in general. Finally, we received a letter from the Association of Cultural and Artistic Creators of RTV Slovenia, which also opposes the change in the status of employees in the public institute of RTV Slovenia and a letter from the Council of Workers, where they note that the proposal for a law sent to the National Assembly was not aligned with the unions and the Council of Workers of the Institute. The bill seems to us to be weak, even from the point of view of the regional centres, which are left with much less autonomy. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are convinced that a member of the administration should also be the director of both regional centres in Maribor and Koper. Finally, let me just add that the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will only support such a proposal of the RTV Act, which will ensure respect for human personality and dignity, the principles of impartiality and the truthfulness of information on opinion, world-viewed and religious pluralism and political independence and autonomy in the creation and preparation of programmes. It must also provide comprehensive and impartial information and the free formulation of opinions and comments. We therefore expect substantial amendments to the draft law in the context of the second reading, for which we will also propose amendments ourselves. What we have said should also lead to the drafting of a new media law, which must certainly be adopted before the RTV law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! By adopting the amendment of the law, we are looking forward to rewinding our central media house and seeing that the law wants to interfere with Radiotelevision's very important principles, which follow their content and message to the mission that the public national radiotelevision fulfils in favour of users, we will support the proposal in this consideration. The key new points in relation to the applicable law relate to the status of transformation of a public institution into a separate legal person of a specific national and cultural importance. And thus would become some kind of sui generis economic society in the national interest. The proposed arrangement thus entails changes in the design of company bodies and in the status of employees. The tasks of the national media institution are essential for all citizens and residents in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, we see somehow the point of the proposals that public broadcasting through its programmes provides optimal opportunities for comprehensive information, broad and comprehensive viewing, while at the same time satisfying the needs of every broadcaster. It is estimated that this can and must be achieved through a public service that gives a hand of market orientation. As has already been said in the beginning, while we support the proposal in the first reading, we are aware that a national renewal is necessary, and we agree with the proposaler that this is in the light of an increase in its autonomy and independence in relation to the political and capital centres. On achieving optimum efficiency of operations, which must be geared towards greater quality of programmes, the introduction of new technologies and services, and the high accessibility of content diversity for individual target groups. What will be our follow-up in the next readings and final decision, however, is not yet crystallized, and in particular we will not remain indifferent until the law is further reviewed by the professional and legislative service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Madam Minister, representatives of the government! With this proposal of the Law on RTV Slovenia, the proposer seeks to achieve the following most important objectives: to increase the autonomy of the public service in relation to the centres of political and capital power in the field of information, the creation of programming content; to achieve greater and efficient operations aimed at greater quality of programmes, faster introduction of new technologies and greater accessibility of content for individual target groups; to complement legal solutions that were not in line with European Union law and the transfer of requirements to the internal legal order, with a focus on transparency in the functioning of public RTV; and to ensure the implementation of the principle of financial transparency. It sounds good, but with the proposal in question, it is difficult to achieve this as easily as possible. In this respect, there is to be a status transformation of the public institution into a separate legal person of special national and cultural importance of public law and should be entered as such in the register of courts. Given that the title itself mentions cultural importance, it would be reasonable and consistent in terms of programme content and scope to include the rest of the programme scope, i.e. as a legal person of public law of specific cultural, educational, information, sport and national importance. Although this status solution allows the transfer of property to RTV property, it is easier to manage the property, which is also limited, of course. With regard to the status itself, it is worth noting some issues and dilemmas, as well as possible conflict situations that may arise in practice. The law itself grants RTV Slovenia some kind of special status – sui generis and as a result we are asked how this will actually work flawlessly in practice. The President of the Court of Auditors himself once stated that he had certain concerns about this, which he did not precisely define and allow for various speculations and doubts. The last indent of Article 2 itself, that employees of RTV Slovenia are not public servants, can generate in practice certain legal issues and controversy. Unfortunately, the draft law can in practice lead to several conflict situations. Let me mention just the following: this is the responsibility of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint two members of the Council of RTV Slovenia, one on a proposal from the Hungarian and Italian nationalities communities. But nowhere is it defined how they will agree on a common member, and if it has to be so, or if it would not be better for them to be representatives of both nationalities in the world. A potential conflict also applies to the proposal of one member on the proposal of registered religious communities, where the choice can also become questionable and consequently conflict. We are also in the Slovenian National Party against the President of the Republic of Slovenia proposing members. Such competence is indeed an example of a couple of exiles and it is difficult to find legal grounds for such interference with the President in comparable European countries. In the Slovenian National Party, we are convinced that the Council of RTV Slovenia could also include one member of the Sport Foundation, one of the Student Organisation of Slovenia and one of the Organization of Foreign Slovenians. I don't know where it came from to decide that the Council should have exactly 15 members. Why not 17, why not 18? Did this happen by accident? If I return to the question of the status or legal-organisation form, it is also necessary to mention only roof legislation, i.e. the media law, which would normally be prepared or amended earlier, because this old version, unfortunately, would impose certain restrictions on prescribed legal and organisational forms. Therefore, it is likely that the drafter of the law has decided on the title of a separate legal person of special national and cultural importance, which should be entered as such in the Register of Courts. This may be the case, or it may be that the entry of the so-called RTV Slovenia would not have passed the previous trial in court. For the Court Registry Act in Article 4, paragraph 1, paragraph 4, provides that the reference to "legal and organisational form of a legal person" shall be entered and entered in the Register of Justice. If I metaphorically caricose, in this section of the bill, it turns out to be as if we were equipping the house with furniture before we put it all the way under the roof, so we covered it. Therefore, it would be necessary to prepare an appropriate roof law, the media law, in advance. And if I return to the Council of RTV Slovenia itself, or to appoint members of the Council, it is necessary to attach indents that exclude the emancipation of certain categories of persons, such as those who are members of the authorities of management, management or control, or who are employed by these persons in competitive media or have ownership in these media. We also have observations in the Slovenian National Party with regard to certain provisions relating to the Supervisory Council, in particular with regard to the provision on the appointment and discharge of members of the Supervisory Board, because we believe that the RTV Council should have no powers. We could also discuss provisions concerning the administration of RTV and the Director-General. In point 2 of the Director-General, he proposes to be appointed by the Council on the basis of a call for proposals by the Supervisory Board. The other members of the Board shall be appointed on a proposal from the Director-General of the Council. I think it should be quite the opposite for the latter, so that the other members of the board are appointed on a proposal from the Council. Article 30 also raises some questions or concerns about the powers of control. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the Council cannot appoint members of the National Council because it also controls its work. The National Assembly should appoint five members, we think. We also find a little unclear the dictions of some of the sections of the 37th section of the Act, which discusses the RTV contribution. For example, the second indent, but also the issue of RTV contributes to itself and could, if there was no time limit, say a number more about this and raise a lot of controversy, especially the ninth indent of the RTV contribution to legal persons' business vehicles. Nowhere in the article is it specified whether the legal person pays extra for the receivers in the vehicles and if he pays for each vehicle. And even more, there are such a line that raises extremely open questions and is difficult to make this happen so flawlessly, unless, of course, we make a thorough amendment to the matter in the future. If I mention anything else about the finances and the status form. RTV Slovenia now operates as a public service service in the cultural and media fields. Its founder is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and RTV Slovenia is the manager of certain state assets. As RTV Slovenia will continue to carry out public service and public service activities, the provision of Article 67(2) of the Public Finance Act, which provides that the State may organise assets in the form of public institutions, public economic institutions, public funds and agencies for such activities. Under the Law on Economic Public Services, a public company is organised according to the legislation governing companies and it is also of this aspect that it is the opinion that the lawmaker should decide on one of the legally possible and list the status form and RTV Slovenia also explicitly determine the legal organisational form, because, as I said in the introduction, there will be complications in the registration of RTV Slovenia itself. The identification of the legal organisational form is also necessary in order to ensure transparency of the operation and operation of RTV Slovenia. For each status form has its own roofing rules which determine the bodies of each legal person, representation and responsibility, financial operations, accounting, auditing, etc. If RTV Slovenia continued to operate in the form of a public institution, the lawmaker should take the utmost account of at least the provisions of the Law on Institutions. However, if RTV Slovenia were defined as any other type of public undertaking, the provisions of the Company Act would be defined. There's really no clarity here. Although theory and practice do not favour the establishment of legal persons sui generis, in the case of RTV Slovenia could most likely justify individual derogations from the roof legislation, which would probably be necessary because of the specifics of the operation of RTV Slovenia. In the case of a proposal, however, we have a situation where RTV Slovenia, as a legal entity, is neither legally defined nor adequately defined. Thus, it would be subject to the rules governing public institutions in accordance with Article 52 of the Law, and the proposal, in particular with the authorities of RTV Slovenia, offers solutions that are typical of shareholders under the Company Act. All described may cause imprudentness of action. It is said that what I mentioned in the introduction, those goals - here will be stuck somewhere, everything is described, may, in fact, cause impreciseness, problems in practice in its financial and other business. For this reason, it may be necessary for the manufacturer to re-examine the individual status and organisational solutions of RTV Slovenia, in particular how they will work individually in practice. After all, we already have the top of our heads of such and similar experiments with such important things that in our neighborhood "keep up so that they can't do better". Let me mention national television in Austria, which is the only television programme with four times the population, and no problems, neither status nor organisational nor financial – counts everything as it should. With us, we have a whole bunch of commercial televisions and we are reorganising this one Slovenian national now. There is no guarantee that the objective I have originally set will actually be achieved. Therefore, I would suggest that, before further consideration of the matter, the applicant should examine the matter well, consult with all those who have something wise to do without politicising this law here, and I have focused entirely on the law itself without any political insinuation, as my colleague mentioned above all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Greetings to the representatives of the Ministry of Culture with Minister Majdo Shirca at the head! In the introduction, let me say that in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will support the law in the first reading. We have a few more dilemmas, some reflections on solutions that we can all upgrade and improve together by the second reading. We want public, autonomous, political and capital independent Radiotelevision Slovenia, which allows professional journalists and journalists quality work. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia has always supported the apolitical, current, professional, financial, rational Radiotelevision of Slovenia, which, as a public service in the public interest, must realize the interests of the inhabitants and residents of the Republic of Slovenia. As regards the proposal for a new law on RTV, it is therefore necessary to renew or refresh the memory of genetics in the first place and, in particular, the effects of the existing law and why changes are needed. Above all, it is difficult to choose the best evidence of how policy has interfered with the work of the public service of RTV Slovenia in recent years, either directly or indirectly. There are too many of them to be presented in a time-limited presentation of our position to the new marriage proposal. Certainly, however, the main reason is already the fact that the existing law on RTV was written by the MP at the time by the largest government party, who, together with the then Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti, deceived the public for two years, claiming that the law had been written by prominent domestic and foreign experts. Author, respectable colleague mag. Grims, he himself praised the year after the referendum at the interpretation of Dr. Simoniti in October 2006. What kind of media expert is one, the name of a Member who is famous for his demagogic rhetoric, which belongs to a party that is famous for its political exclusion, which is the author of the law and all the more insists that the existing law on RTV is non-political. Excuse me, who else would believe a fairy tale like this today?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u87	Mr. Saiovic, you don't have to be insulting to give your opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I hope you'll return the lost seconds and allow me to proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u89	Are you done?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u90	I'm waiting for your permission to proceed. How did she show up and show the politicization of the public office? In constant excesses and traces of political governance. Various violations of journalistic and professional standards mainly include cases of work suspensions, bullying, censorship, political pressure, bias and interference with programme content. Because of all of this, it is really a time for us to finally get to the first reading of the RTV Slovenia Bill today. The new law is simply necessary, since it is necessary to ensure that RTV will truly become a public service that will provide public interest and not any other service. Better governance must be ensured, more effective supervision must be ensured, policy withdrawal from the Programme and Supervisory Board must be ensured. The autonomy of journalists must be ensured in particular. The new law introduces a series of changes that create different comments in the professional and interested public. Some are in favour of the proposals of the law, but there are also concerns. Among the most important changes to the law are the unique regulation of the status of the current public institution Radiotelevision Slovenia and the exclusion of employees on RTV from the system of public servants. The paper thus submitted changes the status form of RTV Slovenia from the current public institution to a separate legal person of special cultural and national importance. It is a special, so-called sui generis arrangement that fully regulates the operation of RTV Slovenia in the Radiotelevision Act Slovenia. However, for situations that may not be regulated, the law provides that the legislation that has been applied so far is the same as for all other public institutions. Such a solution should, in the absence of legal certainty, allow, according to our understanding of the written and, above all, on the basis of the justifications and assurances of lawmakers, a sufficient distinction from the acute, for today's time too rigid of the institution's arrangements, that a new way of corporate governance can be possible, with increased flexibility and response, with increased responsibilities of members of the Radiotelevision Slovenia authorities. More legal certainty, predictability and clarity, according to the law's proponents, can only be provided with the status of sui generis. The vast majority of the constitutional elements of institutional arrangements are set out differently in the proposal than in public institutions, such as employees, property, corporate governance system, the personal responsibility of members of RTV Slovenia authorities and the way they are appointed, as well as the way in which they are financed. Such a status regime of RTV is the response of applicants to a dilemma, or to preserve the designation of a public institution, in which almost everything already in the present law is regulated differently from that laid down in the Law on Institutions, or to put in fact only a virtual divide and stress the enforcement of a fortress which is different, more modern, more responsive, which provides for greater personal responsibility of all members of the management, management and control bodies. This is also highlighted by the clear definition that in the case of RTV Slovenia, it is a special company, with specific tasks which are still of some public interest. This does not pose any danger to the chaotic situation, apart from the part of the theoretical treatment, to the law’s proponents. The opposite is true, and it shows where it brings the regulation, which is officially industrial, and according to the content, it has been gone for a long time. We can also see this in recent developments on RTV Slovenia. Of course, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we expect further clarifications from the proponents in today's debate, arguments for the proposed special regulation of the status of RTV, in particular in the light of the system-wide legislative framework of the Republic of Slovenia, and the resolution of the dilemma whether or not the sui generis regime of the status of RTV will constitute changes in the other segments of the public sector. At the same time, we believe that in the event that RTV has long had its own way of operating and its own arrangement, which differs from that of the company, precisely for reasons of legal certainty, clarity and systematicity, as well as a mental leap into better governance. It is therefore appropriate for us to seek the most appropriate status solution, as a reflection of the real situation and the circumstances in which RTV Slovenia is recognised, which, in fact, with the exception of certain acquisitions of a new law in practice, is already being implemented. In doing so, we are referring to the transfer of property owned by RTV, the personal responsibility of all members of the management, management and control bodies for their work, the precise definition of the public service and the sanctions for its non-implementation, the rigorous adaptation of RTV contribution to the growth of living costs and many others that affect the enhancement of efficiency and, above all, the independence of RTV Slovenia. With all the status solutions proposed, the Republic of Slovenia will continue to be the sole founder of RTV, and the same choice of forms in which public broadcasting works will certainly not be affected. A very important amendment to the bill is also the provision that RTV Slovenia staff will no longer be public servants under the new law. The applicant substantiates that amendment from a comparative and systemic point of view that journalists and other RTV co-workers having an impact on the creation of the programme cannot be subject to a system whose framework and baseline is set by the RS Government. They further substantiate that, at first sight and at present, the situation can work favourably. In the event of any deterioration of conditions or potential improvement, it could be said that there are levers in such a system through which the Government can influence the income position of RTV programme participants and thus also the programme or management of public broadcasting. In past professional discussions, the consensus of the professional public has been so formed that such regulation is simply not good, regardless of possible short-term interest, the current satisfaction of the employees. We have therefore been monitoring the efforts and implementation of the Ministry of Culture at the Liberal Democracy Club during the drafting of the law in order to prepare the best possible text of the law on RTV and in this regard a dialogue with the representative unions of RTV and with the representatives of the Council of Workers. Although we are convinced that the Ministry has examined all the proposed comments and has taken them into account in most cases, today's debate will also have to provide further clarifications and clear answers regarding the warnings of trade unions and the workers' council on the question that RTV employees with the new law will no longer be public servants. In doing so, we stress in particular that such a solution must be implemented in a transparent manner, without reducing any employee rights. The way out of the public servants scheme, which is regulated by Article 57 of the proposal for a law, is to be fully recorded in the manner proposed by the trade union negotiating group, subject to guarantees with the exception of the second paragraph. However, the change in paragraph 2 is a logical consequence of the fact that expelled staff will no longer be able to pay an additional pension premium to the closed public pension fund of public servants. The legal text solves this issue in a way that, therefore, the continued payment of supplementary pension premiums is to be made to one of the voluntary supplementary pension insurance funds. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia is of the opinion that such a solution could be acceptable, but certainly employees should be clearly justified and presented with a legal amendment. The proposed amendment and the concerns of employees should be stressed that their employment contracts remain in force, jobs remain the same, and the provisions of existing collective agreements and the Public Sector Wages Act still apply to them until they are negotiated with a different regime guide, which is not possible without their consent. The position of employees in this respect is protected both at the time of the transition, because, given the dictates of the law, in our view, there can be no talk of interference with any rights, as in the light of the provisions of Article 46 in the future. The staff of Radiotelevision Slovenia will no longer be public servants under the new law. In spite of these concerns, however, at the Liberal Democracy Club, we are certainly positively assessing an internationally comparable approach with regard to the design of a programme council, which will be designed in a new way so as to have an optimal number of members, which should also allow for good work or professional work. We also believe that there must be a third programme within RTV and that the National Assembly cannot be the editor of the programme. We therefore support the proposal for a law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, although there is still a dilemma that we are dealing with, as I said in the introduction. We're sure they'll clear up. The text will be complemented accordingly and, in cooperation with all of us, it will improve. We support the bill in particular because the greater autonomy of Radiotelevision Slovenia, in relation to political and capital power, will consequently allow for quality or professional work for serious journalists and journalists. We also support the law because it introduces transparency between public and private, as it imposes mechanisms to improve the efficiency of business, which will also allow for greater quality of programmes, more efficient deployment of new technologies and services, and greater accessibility of content for individual target groups. We therefore expect more satisfaction from all contracting authorities under the new law. And that's what this is all about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Laszlo Göncz will present the position of the Group of National Communities. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, representatives of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! In the introduction, I must point out that in relation to the proposed Radiotelevision Act Slovenia, including the consideration of the original text, several coordinations and discussions have been carried out also in the light of the proposed provisions and content relating to the national communities. This is by no means a coincidence, since radio and television programmes of indigenous national communities and implementing units or systems are an important segment of the programming scheme and organisation of RTV Slovenia. In the past, there has been a huge investment in this area, and it represents an important material and moral value for society as a whole, which makes it conditional on this issue to be addressed in the future and, above all, in the proposed law, to be given an appropriate role. The content of the discussions involving the legitimate representatives of the national communities, as well as experts and working bodies operating under the implementing units of the national programmes of both communities, has always been carried out in an effort to bring together those positions where the proposed solutions differ from those of the Hungarian and Italian national communities. In this work, the representatives of the proposed law have shown a sincere desire for consensus, which I thank them for, and I also stress that we have undoubtedly succeeded in bringing the content of some of the legislative proposals closer together. Unfortunately, coordination has not been fully successful, and I must also point out that, in the proposed form, certain provisions relating to the content and organisation of national RTV programmes and in particular the integration of national communities into the decision-making system for the Italian and Hungarian national communities are not acceptable in the proposed form. This position has also been communicated to the President of the National Assembly by the relevant Community Organisations and we are also Members of the said Communities who are clearly entitled to take their views into account. Before briefly summarizing and presenting the issues at issue from our point of view, I would like to make it clear that, with the most problematic content at the stage of the final reading of the law, we will not be able to bring the views or improve the texts of the provisions at issue, we will not be able to support the Member of the National Communities in the proposed form. Of course, our desire and message are not that, but we all want to do the same for other issues, as we have already done for some improvements. At the moment, the most important issue in the proposed text of the law in terms of indigenous national communities is the complicated solution to the composition of the RTV Council. Otherwise, to a certain extent, it is possible to understand a new concept whereby the number of members of the Council is substantially being violated, but in the general part of the proposed provision I will not drop. It is important to stress, however, that the representation of indigenous national communities is constitutionally conditioned and, in this case, this should also be consistently taken into account and resolved as a specificity. The proposed solution, which, in lieu of its own member of both communities in the RTV Council, as has always been the case in recent mandates, provides for one common member appointed by the President of the Republic to be unacceptable to us for several substantive reasons. On this occasion, I will mention just a few facts or aspects. The programme content and organisation of both communities in the area of RTV programmes are quite different and specific, so it would be particularly substantively disputed how someone who knows only one community could be a competent representative of other communities in the highest public body. I reiterate that in the case of national RTV programmes, too, in a material sense, these are extremely complex and relatively large systems. The question of the practical implementation of the proposed solution that a member of the national community in the RTV Council is appointed by the President of the Republic, with all due respect for the institution and personality of all Presidents, I will not fail to mention only the constitutional aspect of this issue, namely, Article 63 of the Slovenian Constitution provides for the transfer of decision-making powers of national importance to the competent organisations of the national community, which would be neglected if the proposed solution was implemented. It is more important to stress the general political aspect of resolving this issue. If both indigenous national communities do not have their own member in the highest body of public RTV, this will mean a direct reduction in rights from the point of view of the representation of the national community at the highest level compared to the current situation in an area which, by the constitution and the Slovenian minority model, represents one of the important and specific rights and vital areas of the national community. The presence of the national community in the highest authority of RTV is also symbolic, which testifies to the high legal protection of the rights of the national communities in Slovenia, which would be curtailed by the implementation of the proposed solution. In addition to the inconsistencies of the proposed text of the law, which I stress is most important, it is also important to note the importance of defining the function and role of the Deputy Director-General for National Programmes and their direct involvement in the work of the public administration. In the bill, this content is completely ignored. The coordination talks have repeatedly stressed that this issue will be addressed in the statute of the institution, as lawmakers are also aware of the importance of the heads of national public institutions. The current solution is intended to be so designed for conceptual reasons. In adopting the statute when it comes to national content, the National Programme Committees shall give their consent to the Statute, which has been achieved in the coordination so far. However, we believe that due to the importance of the role of the aforementioned heads of national programmes, or of the Deputy Director-General, this issue should also be taken into account and given a clear explanation in relation to this because of continuity at least when explaining the articles of the new law. I am pleased to note, however, that, with regard to the provisions of the law relating to the financing of national RTV programmes, the drafter of the law has taken into account the comments of the national communities and there has been a consensus. In the hope that the drafters of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia or members of the National Assembly will understand the importance and message of the content of the position presented, and in view of the fact that it is only the principle of legally correct and politically continuous decisions and solutions, we expect support in the formulation of such final provisions, which will take into account the important interests of indigenous communities mentioned. As I said in the introduction, our final support for this law depends on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Madam Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! Social Democrats in the world of Social Democrats for Culture and in the parliamentary group have held numerous discussions and coordination on the normative regulation of RTV Slovenia. Notwithstanding the fact that some of the solutions in the RTV Slovenia proposal are taken into account, for example, the representation of civil society in the world, there is still some dilemma in the parliamentary group about the status of the institution, the placement of the parliamentary programme, the position of the national community in the composition of the world and the harmonisation of the provisions on the exemption of employees from the public service system with the social partners. In particular, the status issue has repeatedly led us to demand for a new law on public institutions that could resolve some open issues, and not least, the umbrella law on public institutions has been prepared, and unfortunately not adopted, for the first time, this is the first time that we have regulated a public institution under a specific statute. Notwithstanding this, we supported the intention to adopt a new law because we believe that the law in force, which we did not agree with at the time of its adoption in 2005, does not only allow individual amendments and additions to realize those positions that we have already announced before the elections in 2008 and which would meet our basic requirement, but that RTV, as an institution of special national importance, must carry out public service in the field of television in support of people's cultural, social and democratic political needs, with the aim of excellence, openness and commitment to the public. Public administration and control authorities must be exempt from the influence of policy, and their independence, expertise and representation must be ensured. The Programme Council, now in the proposal by the Council, must once again have a central role to play in determining the institution's programming and business policy. In addition to providing a quality programme, RTV must also provide for technological modernisation. However, all issues need to be addressed on behalf of providing quality public service, which must have an absolute advantage over the demands and expectations of individual stakeholders. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that every intervention in media law is a very sensitive subject, given special attention to the interested public, which is necessarily polarising and where only a very difficult consensus is reached by all stakeholders. However, we are convinced that the changes that would be their own purpose do not make any sense and will not be supported in the public if we do not know how to answer the fundamental question, namely whether the new law provides quality public service, which will result in a return of confidence in public television and a halt in particular the fall in television ratings and ensure high obedience to radio programmes. The new law comes into the legislative process in the middle of the mandate, although it was possible for people to hear demands for rapid action. However, we gave up rapid human resources changes and went to the preparation of the law that laid the groundwork for him. The 20-member working group of media professionals has thus said its part and left the policy with responsibility for the proposal that we are considering. For the Group of Social Democrats, therefore, the key question is whether it had the opportunity to tell the public concerned. I will therefore first stop in the opinion of the interested public, which had the opportunity to speak on the draft law on RTV Slovenia at a public hearing in mid-March this year. It should be noted, however, that the text has changed since then, especially as it became clearer provisions on the legal status of RTV Slovenia and established awards for employees, administration and the Supervisory Council. We have heard different opinions in the debate: that the system of companies is being introduced, that the allocation of time during the electoral campaign is unfair, that the world needs to be complemented by another representative of ethnic minorities, that a new law on the media should be adopted first, that the consent of employees should be introduced in the appointment of responsible editors, that, by the inclusion of employees in the public servants system, the payment system has become more orderly and transparent, that the director of radio and television for the Italian and Hungarian national communities should be provided for, in law, that the role of regional centres should be clearly defined so that employees should remain public servants so that the disabled are dissatisfied with the smaller number of members of the world. I have reviewed the views in order to assess how many of these comments have been taken into account since the previous proposal. The Group of Social Democrats was surprised that there is no uniform opinion among employees on what their status should be. Consider, for example, the opposition faced by the inclusion of journalists among public officials. There are many complications, even irregularities regarding salary reform at the end of the previous term, which the current government had to resolve. In particular, experts pointed out at their presentation that they were not employed in public service by public servants in any country. Some were disappointed at the partiality of the interests expressed. The call was made to the policy to end this institution as a political polygon by adopting the law. The fact is, no law in itself brings autonomy, but it is necessary to know how to fight and negotiate. Of course, it is essential for the Group of Social Democrats to strengthen the role of employees in the most important body of RTV Slovenia – in the Council, where employees will now have three representatives, but for half the smaller world. Something about a parliamentary channel. The status of the parliamentary channel is to be settled within two years of the adoption of this law. It is intended to be regulated in a special law or roof law on media services. RTV Slovenia is expected to provide technical capacity for transposition. With regard to the third parliamentary channel, we have different opinions in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Proponents of the current regime see it as a programme that allows for greater opportunities to present views and address so-called less interesting topics, while others believe that it is no longer just a transfer of events, but mainly commenting, which is growing the purpose of establishing this channel, and insisting on a public presentation of opinions to the expressed position that the information programme should be strengthened in the first two programmes and that the delegation of meetings should be left to Parliament. Something about program ratings. Regardless of carefully protected data on the viewing of the Television of Slovenia, the power from various sources is to detect the decline in the number of viewers. It is mainly concerned about the lower ratings of information shows. Media experts point out that the viewer’s decision for a particular information programme is mainly based on the confidence of the media. While public RTV ratings should not be an excuse for abandoning a quality programme that does not have a large audience, leadership should not overlook this, but in particular not concealing the decline in ratings. In 2009, the Supervisory Board took note of a study on the reputation and credibility of RTV Slovenia and the expectations of viewers. According to the study, RTV Slovenia is not perceived as too commercial, people are supposed to want RTV to become more susceptible to innovation and release. In 2009 TV Slovenia was overtaken by Channel A, in addition to POP TV. The Director of Television of Slovenia Jože Možina said that the national defence research was a less representative sample and also less up to date than the internal measurement. He added that such results of the ratings can also be understood as confirmation that they are not commercialised. In the Group of Social Democrats, we expected that, given the longer time taken to draft the law as planned, the degree of coordination between employees and the Ministry of Culture would be greater. We are convinced that further consideration of the law may also change with regard to the degree of harmonisation. Therefore, the Group of Social Democrats, with rare exceptions, perhaps two, will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr Alexander Zorn will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u96	Dear colleagues, well-respected Madam Minister and co-workers, welcome! Dear Minister, I am honored that you have withdrawn the first marriage, which would have failed to obtain verification in any way. And you're less honored for the second marriage, for that now, because it's even worse than the first. You have come here, Prime Minister, with a law that he is opposed to: government service for legislation, the Ministry of Public Administration, in your own government, many important writers, such as Rado Bohinc, trade unions of cultural and artistic creators, the Union of Journalists of Slovenia, journalists of Radiotelevision and, of course, minorities. It is not simply a misunderstanding, for we could eventually achieve unity within the government itself. As not surprising as the government's cacophony in the adoption of laws, but if the government's legal service assures you that the law is prepared so that it won't be able to register it and that it won't live, that it's somehow inappropriate, and if the other ministry of the same government opposes this law, I think it's a little too much. Thus, the preparation of this law should take place in a slightly more serious way. There's something else I have to say in the beginning. To stop the prestigious struggles between the so-called Grims Act and the current law, I suggest we stop dealing with it. And I also call on my colleagues not to defend any Grimes marriage, for with this defense they only hide the weaknesses of it. This is an excellent example of how we can hide behind the criticism of the previous government of the extreme weaknesses of this law and this government. Let's leave it alone, because these are intra-parliamentary battles, larpurlarism, with which we will not achieve that the final marriage will be better, that it will be valid, that even journalists may be satisfied or at least part of them, and so on. At the same time, he has me to recommend to his colleagues that this law be fully supported, because, after all, there is no need for machiavelists to wait for the ruler to be replaced, if I speak machiavelystically or if the government is replaced, and we can rule perfectly with this law, which is also political and also allows many political influences on poor journalists. And if I remember. Grims's marriage was adopted by the terrible screaming of the then opposition. He got his referendum. And got it. Autonomous journalists who were deprived of their freedom were affected. And what happened to your first case of marriage that you then withdrew? Those insulted autonomous journalists were totally against him. How's that? What defense did you make with the new marriage? And what's the new law, the one that's here now? It's barely changed since the last one. Journalists, at least as the organization that unites everything, are partly silent, some are strongly opposed, but are certainly divided. This is said not to have saved the autonomy of journalism with this proposal. So much for a start. Besides, I think there are some major problems with this marriage that I'm going to tell you. Some will also be presented by my colleagues. To begin with what the Law Service wrote, because this somehow internally came to the National Assembly for us on the table and it is not generally public, but it is so good that if you read it, you could leave because it is enough for our parliamentary group. And it should be for you, too, because this is your service. Thus says the Government's Law Service, which opposes the treatment of published material: "The Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia continues to point in particular to systemic issues and some other issues that the service has pointed to in its opinion and during inter-resort coordination. As a separate legal person of special cultural and national importance, RTV status should therefore be found to be a fully sui generis status form that does not correspond to any of the status forms of public and private persons. On the basis of such a finding, in the opinion of the service, serious systemic and legal concerns are raised in the light of the arrangements envisaged. The envisaged RTV status form is found to deviate completely from all known and stable forms of entities carrying out a particular activity. While the service may agree that the position and functioning of RTV is quite specific in relation to other entities, this priority cannot result in an establishment in a kind of resolution of a particular issue, otherwise there would be legal exceptions to the system itself. Certainly, when establishing new status forms, a great deal of attention must be paid to all the necessary issues being properly addressed, since it is about creating a new system that has not yet been regulated in any way. If that assumption is not fulfilled, the legal regime is not specific and clear and therefore causes problems in its enforcement and is ultimately disputed in terms of the constitutional principle of the rule of law. It is stated that it is subject to the provisions of other laws governing the operation of legal persons of public law. In the opinion of the service, such a provision is unclear. This raises the question of what is the legislation that is supposed to apply to RTV Slovenia?" Further, "on the basis of that service, the proposal is of the view that the proposal deviates completely from the state-of-the-art forms of public law and that it is also unclear as to which legislation the proposed sui generis form was applicable." Finally, "Article 58 provides for the conclusion of an annex to collective agreements. RTV staff, employees, should no longer be public servants, meaning a substantial legal and actual change to be considered in order to find a new enterprise collective agreement. It is clear, however, that if this deadline were not to exist, there could be a situation where RTV employees would in fact no longer be employees, but they could be fully subject to public servants' legislation..." The law as such will therefore not be able to be entered into the register. It is said that he will not live, and of course, in the Group of Members, we will examine this from all possible courts that are competent to do so to the constitutional level. Second thing. The consequence for the employees is fatal. This does not mean that I advocate that journalists be public servants. Absolutely not. But we need to know that we are dealing with an institution that employs 2,000 people. There are also so many and so many families dependent on them. And this change, if it's not exactly prepared, means a social bomb. We need to know that already, and this needs to be taken into account. And how this legislation is going to run, of course, is a tough nut. How will journalists be provided with social, health, etc.? Whether you will do this with an annex or work with a general contract or forgive it will prove that the criteria for new employment are completely different from those for public servants. How will you establish these criteria? This is a huge conglomerate of issues that will have very serious consequences in a two-thousand-member collective. The Ministry of Public Administration also opposes you in this regard. He says: "The general comment on the proposal of the law is that we do not see the reason for the exclusion of RTV Slovenia from the public sector, because we believe that in the law in the public sector wage system a special status is properly established, which is justified by the following...". Then there's more than one side of it. Among other things, it is important that, due to its activities and status, RTV Slovenia belongs to the public sector and is a user of public funds in the public finances system, so that the funds derived from the RTV contribution do not concern the own resources of RTV Slovenia, but, of course, a slightly different one, the economic community cannot simply adopt them, that the legislator has the right to regulate the use of public funds effectively and that the PSPIZ, when excluding RTV SLO into the public sector's payment system by special arrangement, has taken care to take account of the specific situation of RTV SLO. In short, that's what fighting between the Ministry means. And what does Mr. Rado Bohinc say? Very interesting. I can't say he's exactly your opponent. He says: "The idea of the legal and organisational forms of sui generis in the public sector, which could extend to other areas if the Law on Institutions is not updated soon, is not appropriate for Slovenia, as it already has a fragmented and legally regulated public law system that needs to be updated. The law, which establishes a new legal person of public law, such as RTV, must determine its legal organisational form, or it leaves this eminent legal issue to a number of other open issues and a weak interpretation of practice, beginning with the registrar's court." So, dear fellows, we have a problem. We have a problem with this marriage. And our view is that the lawmaker should decide on one legal option from the status forms listed and also explicitly determine the legal and organizational form for RTV Slovenia. Not that he invented a new one. How nice that sounds! The comparisons with the foreign, Britain, Germany and Austria, which Mr Rado Bohinc has excellently worked on, also by accident, do not stand any comparisons. Not because we have a similar name. A similar name may be copied. It is because all these countries have completely different legislation, which, of course, they can support. So much for that. My colleagues will talk about the programming world and the control world, and I would mention something else about us all, and it's very strong. This is the definition of the 3rd Parliamentary Programme RTV Slovenia to the National Assembly. This definition is extremely unusual. There is a fear that state media is being introduced, which in itself limits journalistic autonomy. The law does not determine the status and position of journalists who will work in or design this program in the National Assembly. As a result of the person to whom they will be employed and the source of funding, the legislator is offered a solution to be public servants. However, there is also the question of whether the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the laws, has at all the power to issue television media and how, according to the constitutional and legal nature of this part of the national authority, any advertising on programme 3 will be regulated, which also depends on the financing of the media. Will this be permitted or prohibited under certain conditions? Let the law determine that. On the proposal for a law, there are no clear provisions on the financing of the 3rd Parliamentary Programme and the editorial and journalistic autonomy of the employees who will design this programme. It is also unclear in the law that this programme may not be put out after two years. The solution is also unusual from the point of view of the existing media law, since then the National Assembly, as a publisher of this TV media, would design and adopt the programming design of the media, meaning that the programming content would be policy-making. If I look at this a little bit more out of practice, my esteemed colleagues, what does that mean? Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Will this television be here in the National Assembly? Will she stay on TV and pay the rent? Are we going to vote for editors every time after the coalition majority? Will we hire them as public servants while all their fellow journalists? How are we gonna do that? After all, how will pension insurance run? What's going to happen to that? By what law? None of this is clear. Not to say that they will be cut off from the archives of the Television of Slovenia, because if they are eliminated, if they want to use anything, they will also pay, and it will all of a sudden be very expensive. It'll all be very expensive all of a sudden. And then after two years of this, we'll give up. Members could split up their functions and, for example, appoint Mr Potrč as the editor-in-chief, who sees that he is having a bit of fun now. However, for Mrs Potter, I would suggest that she is a speaker, because she is very eloquent and has a good style at all. Mr Jerovska, who is laughing, would suggest he is a lecturer, for example, because he is famous in this, and for the ads, I do not see him, I suggest Lucky Friend when he comes back. I'm serious. But that tells you how difficult it will be to implement this third program. That's the way it is. I think the marriage is incomplete, unprepared, and, Madam Secretary, remain with us, but we will reject it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Every time media legislation is on the agenda, and especially when dealing with the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, the political scene is thoroughly divulged. As a result of this law, a referendum was even announced in 2005. The RTV Act seemed so important to the former government that it was adopted even before the extensive amendment of the media law. From the predicted amendment of the law in 2005 to the first reading of the law in 2005 it took less than two months. This time the government was more thorough and took more time. From the announcement of the amendment last April to today's first reading of the law, more than a year has passed. The former government has set aside eight pages of text to explain the law. The current explanation is more thorough as it covers 35 pages. It is good to recall something to be done, since 2003, signed by 86 celebrities, including later cultural ministers Dr. Vasko Simoniti and Secretary of State Dr. Alexander Zorn. They suggested that in a debate with the opposition, civil associations and journalists, government and parliamentary representatives reach a public consensus on the total independence of national television and radio or the reorganisation of nationals into a real public institution. And then where did the appellate signatures land? In the government and in the program world. Bina Matoh, Ivo Jakob, Dr. Ivan Šuhec, Jože Snoj and Dr. Stane Grand were directly members of the Programme Council. We have not yet forgotten the famous leaf crop with which the current coalition at the meeting of the Mandate-Election Commission in 2006 ensured that more than 200 of the proposals for members of the RTV Programme Council have been selected "this right" by representatives of civil society. The chief author of the previous law was the Magi Member. Branko Grimes. This time the law has been drafted by an expert group; if you want, I can also present its composition by name. In a public presentation of the opinions, the coordination of press unions supported, I state, the "consistent dialogueal openness of the Ministry of Culture in the debate". The Slovenian press union has expressed satisfaction that the unions, I say, are "the first to be left so close". The new law transforms the public office into a legal entity governed by public law. Public service and market activities are consistently exchanged. The amount of the RTV contribution shall be coordinated according to the consumer price index and no longer according to the decision of the Government. Remember the negative consequences of the promise to reduce or freeze the amount of RTV contributions made by the previous government. The new law also amends the composition of RTV Slovenia authorities in order to ensure greater autonomy in the functioning of the public service, while also increasing the responsibility of the authorities, which is the same as that of members of the management or control bodies in shares companies. The legal basis for the operation of the Institute of the Ombudsman is established for viewers, listeners and users of RTV Slovenia services. The employees are exempt from the system of public servants and the assets used in their work by RTV Slovenia are transferred from the country to RTV Slovenia. The status of the parliamentary channel is changing, which is no longer one of the TV programmes provided by RTV Slovenia in the framework of public service and RTV Slovenia must only provide technical capacity for this transmission. While we have different views here, this proposal will have to wait for the final third reading of this law. Despite the carefully protected data on TV Slovenia's ratings, we have been able to detect a significant decline in the number of viewers and viewers from various sources, as has already been found today. In particular, it is concerned about the reduction in the ratings of information shows, which shows the great mistrust of viewers towards this national media. Thus, as the nationalist put it, they made a strong leap ahead of POP TV and also Channel A, I think not just because they found viewers to the more yellow media. The Act is due to enter into force on 1 January 2011, but its objective will only be achieved by improving the programme, returning viewers and viewers to national television screens and with better business results of RTV Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It was expected that the debate on the new law on RTV Slovenia would be an opportunity for controversy and accounting by trying to change the current law. However, I welcome my colleague Zorn's invitation not to focus on the genetics of the previous or current law. We all know that genetics, but it is fair to compare the discussions that were or were not at all at the time with the methodology for the formation of this law. And at this comparison, we will immediately conclude that this is an essentially different approach. At that time, the package was offered in principle to take or leave. We are now in front of a text that comes with the critical cooperation of the public, the interested public, the interested institutions. The fact that there are critical views and that this law arises in such dialectics speaks of the intention of the proposer of this law to actually form it in the spirit of taking all comments into account. It was also said several times, although somewhat cynical that the original law had changed substantially. I recall the first announcement that we will be given a law that will transform the public office into an economic society. And that's when they immediately intimidated RTV workers into mass losing their jobs. This announcement turned out to be premature. Indeed, there was an economic society among possible models, but the law was not dogmatic and today we have a text that speaks of a person of public law. What is a person of public law? According to known information from the Institute of Public Administration and by law, we know that this can be the state, that these are hospitals, that they can be schools and can also be RTV. The fact is, in recent years, the public institution of RTV has developed rapidly and intensively. In particular, it has developed certain activities that are difficult to place in a public institution. They need to be remodeled, and that makes sense. This is why the idea of a new status that at the same time protects the public of this house and, on the other hand, allows this person to act in an articulated and transparent manner to control all segments of its operation. So the purpose of such a transformation is good. Initiating the debate is also good. I think that the applicants have taken into account the dialectic they will launch, and so far they have also taken account of a number of comments. And the public concerned must recognise that from the first draft of the law to what we now have in this first phase, in the general debate on the law itself, there have been relevant changes in the light of critical comments. But there's still some confusion. So was I, and this minister or friend Majda knows well, the inter-critical voices within our party. And I must say that all these voices have been taken into account and that a number of comments have come across. Today we have a law that is a good foundation, a good basis for further consideration. I mentioned a few inconsistencies earlier. I believe that among the things I share is the skepticism of some, this is the question of the representation of certain social segments in the RTV Council. But let's not forget, what was crucial, the representation of RTV workers is now significantly greater than it was in the present law. We have three employees in a much smaller world in the 15-member world. This is not small, it is a great achievement, perhaps the employees in RTV do not yet realize it, but the fact is that their specific power is increased. And by increasing their specific power, the power of politics and political interference in the world is being relatively reduced. The open question remains the representation of the national communities. We must be aware that any withdrawal from the guaranteed level of representation at the symbolic level, as well as at the operational level, constitutes a problem. Therefore, the position of the Group of Ambassadors has indeed highlighted the fact that there is still a need to coordinate on this issue. In particular, it is necessary to align with the stakeholders, this being with representatives of the national communities, because it will be difficult to ensure a mechanism for the coordination and representation of the two communities with only one representative in order to make it a rotation, a half-term one community, a half-term another community. This is a possible mechanism, but we will put both minorities into serious embarrassment when they have to agree on priorities, interests, representation, as these are completely different models for the development of the Italian national community and the Hungarian national community. I am well-intentioned in this regard, because I believe that this issue is still open and that it can be resolved in a way that will satisfy all stakeholders. The appointment of representatives of religious and national communities by the President is not problematic at all. The President is an institution that can appoint, but the law clearly states that the proposal, the initiative, arises with national or religious communities. And there is no dilemma as to who is proposing a minority representative to the RTV Council. These are the organs of national self-government; there is no dilemma here. The President's will is not possible here. The President shall appoint only the candidate or representative proposed by the self-government communities. On all other issues, in particular the question that became the most delicate, although it works paradoxically, if we remember the period when journalists became public servants - at the time I was also a journalist myself, although freelancer and I was not directly affected, but among colleagues who were employed, there was harassment, "we will be public servants". After that, Virant’s law paid them at least money because they had arranged salaries and a system of salaries at the level of public servants. But what does that mean for the autonomy of journalism, what this means for freedom of journalism, is another question. And I want to be consistent with the spirit of that time and the bitterness of that time and to warn that this is a step towards greater autonomy of journalism. It is understandable that in these times, and I think that the unfortunate circumstance of this law is that it arises in the unfortunate circumstances of the economic, financial and, hence, psychological difficulties, where the autonomy of journalism loses priority and is obtained by financial security, the level of wages that should be inviolable or should be aligned with the whole public sector. Of course, it's legitimate, it's humanly understandable, but it's long-term for dignity, and it's pretty devastating for the identity of journalism. I hope that further discussions will allow for interaction and synergy with journalists, as well as with the press union, in order to reach an understanding agreement on this and in principle respect for this principle of independence and autonomy of the journalist. If I make my first contribution to this law. I think it is good that it is a good basis for further consideration and that it needs some suggestions, some harmonisation within the National Assembly and consequently also with civil society, which is interested. This law is the result of a broad debate, I repeat, also critical. And this fact convinces me that it is a good basis for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council! In addition to the opinion of the DeSUS Group, I would like to add some further thoughts. Well done, Madam Minister, you have touched again one of the very sensitive areas of our seventh force. And as in the past, this time will be very varied, very hot, different opinions and different views on organisation and the entire scheme of RTV Slovenia. Although we know that this is a media house, it is very important for citizens and citizens. Therefore, in the National Assembly, we are aware of this responsibility to participate in the drafting and adoption of a law that will provide all the good conditions for development and for the existence of an important media house. It is not disturbing and it does not bother us at all in the parliamentary group that the proposal of this law and the first reading have come across many criticisms and many disapprovals. Clearly, it is a well thought-out text that has touched the areas of each of those who are now criticizing. This seems to me to be a good way forward, which is already at the beginning of this criticism, which is noticeable, and I am sure that further to this process of adoption of the law there will be a final text and final form that will be good for all citizens and citizens who are aware and we believe that this media house should be regulated in a modern, modern way, so that it will be transparent so that the organisational scheme will allow for flexible adaptation of all the programmes and content that concern this media house. Most of the comments can be recorded and felt and heard in the areas of the status and position of employees. Of course, this form is not definitive. We do not think that additional modifications and adjustments are necessary here, but all these things that are given are a good basis for further consideration. It seems important to us that you have given these proposals to the law greater autonomy in the functioning of the media house, that greater independence of journalists has been given, that, finally, the formation of the RTV contribution is linked to some normal and sustainable form and content. So it's an increase in the cost of living. It also seems important to us that the Ombudsman is concerned with the rights of viewers and listeners, which is very important. And many other things are such that we are confident that you are on the right track, that all these attacks and all these negative comments are part of an improvement, modification of this proposal in a good final proposal, a good final form and adoption of this law as a good document. Today, there have been a lot of comments about the fact that ratings have been reduced and that there is no longer any interest in watching our national. But that is why this modification of the whole law is necessary to give the media house this content, through which they can be very autonomous, independent, through the status form that the economic society of public interest has designed and implemented all the things that are needed to make the ratings greater, so that this mission of the media house, which is not only reporting, reporting, is also a large part of the culture and part that concerns the wider visibility of our population. That is why I will not at this time touch on some micro-units that are not yet fully harmonised, and also micro-circuits that are not somehow in our group's understanding, because I think there will still be enough opportunities and there will be enough time to draw attention to these things that are not what we would like in the current proposal. I am sure that by the end of this law they will also be modified and brought into a form that will also be acceptable to our Group of Members. I think it's a curse and a confidence move forward. We are aware that it is a very important area, a very sensitive area, but there is no other choice. If we want to have a media house Radiotelevision Slovenia modern, modern, transparent, then this is the only way to get to this content. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u104	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues! Due to the adoption of the Radiotelevision Act, Slovenia will not see any greater nationalism. The ratings will be increased with a better program. But the program won't be any better if you adopt a new law. If you will adopt a new law and if there will be any new form of nationalism, say goodbye to the excellent home programme, documentary excellent home programme, youth excellent Slovenian programme, excellent cultural shows, due to the educational and educational programmes that we are still seeing, in view of the national sport programme. The rest is going to be this, now we're going to watch the diary, which here and there interrupts the EPP, so the ads, then we're going to watch the ads that the Diary is going to interrupt. That's it. And we have enough of that, or those who watch other TVs have more than enough. Colleagues and colleagues! When we talk politely, on the road, we say, "Did you see that show on the national?" What do we say now? "You, did you watch that show on this one, they, third, paid, commercial, bribed show?" Let it follow this money, the monetary status of some new status TV, where, of course, journalists will also be highly dependent on the money of the payer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word has Roberto Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Let me add a few more points to what our colleague Laszlo Göncz said at the outset. See, Italy's RTV Koper programs have made the history of the RTV system in Slovenia. Radio programs have been in existence for 60 years, television programs for 40 years. During all this time these programmes have contributed enormously to this system in technical, execution and programming terms and to this very important public service. That is also why I think it is very justified for national communities to have their representatives in the world of RTV, with the powers and powers of the world. This isn't about broadcasts or software content. These are comprehensive programs that contain and produce software and software content. From the point of view of the Italian national community, this is the only important national institution which is public and covers at least the entire national territory in which members of the Italian national community can work in their own language. But these programs aren't the product of some ethnic key. These programs are done by everyone who works on the radio and TV Koper. Because of the programmes, it is logical that these programmes also have their own, not only editors, but also managers, which are part of the administration, management of the system. Without this, the autonomy of these programmes would be understood and implemented as a public responsibility within the RTV system, so without it this system would be absolutely disabled and disabled in the exercise of its primary function. I therefore hope that further coordination, if today's law is considered appropriate for further consideration, which should not be questioned, given the cohesion of the coalition, will result in an agreement that will allow the national communities to have at least the role they have played since the beginning within the RTV system and which would allow for the subjectivity at Community level in this sensitive and extremely important area for the national community itself, and will also allow for the further development of these programmes, which have represented and still represent a strong element that creates the visibility of RTV Slovenia and which has been and remains a window to the world of the public RTV system of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The word is Dushan Kumer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! First, I will say that at first reading, I will support this bill, with the hope that this is not the final version, and by third reading, there is still much to be changed. In view of this debate, which has been diverse, I will quote from today's Work the opinion, position or view of the RTV house of one of the creators of the program and, last but not least, of someone sitting in the programming Council of RTV Slovenia, quote: "But you are aware of the shit we are in. That POP TV with 40% ratings controls everything, and we're here talking about national fun rock. The most tragic in RTV Slovenia is that, respected saints, we are the only institution in Slovenia where the results are immediately visible. And what are they like? Such that most of us are here, you can find out for yourself, shame that we are employed in this institution. I've never been as ashamed in my life as I am now." End of quote. This is a human quote that I respect in some ways in the Slovenian cultural space, especially in some of his innovative matters in the entertainment programme. It's Sasha Hrybar. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In view of the current enforcement and effectiveness of the RTV Act adopted in this Chamber in 2005, it is more than obvious that this was not a good solution. This has been pointed out by some since then, but the ears of the majority in this National Assembly have been deaf to any further proposals or improvements to the then and now applicable law. The proposal that we have before us today – although it has been warned today by one of the most opposition parties and the recommendation given to us not to discuss the law in force or the innovators of this law from the past – is nevertheless impossible to avoid it, and I forgive the motioner of this recommendation that I abuse it and still discuss the past – compared to the law in force, especially in the solutions that increase financial, property and management autonomy, good attitudes, so that with some improvements this autonomy can be increased. This does not mean, of course, that the solutions already proposed are viable and that they cannot be rectified in the next two cases. Above all, when it comes to status changes, the current proposal is a good basis for further discussion. I myself believe that there is a possibility to seek a compromise option on the specific form of the status of a stand-alone public institution which would have a more specific form of financial, management and property autonomy defined. And those who have quoted Dr. Bohintz today, read his entire contribution, which is just about to be done through current legislation, only the will must be and, of course, a little innovation. And in this context, in my view, it is also possible to define the status of employees with certain specificities that would apply to employees, given the specific status of the public institution. And here I must say that it is true and I am sure that, after these changes, if we abstain from this third reading and adopt a new law, it will not be possible to steer in such mud milk as the RTV leadership does in the current composition. If I only mention a scandal with a pay, discharge and so on. It is not just that after this scandal you can see what the consequences of those who should control and manage the RTV house and who have been chosen from the brick harvest. Here, respected colleagues and colleagues, it is also a matter of, say and write, a violation, a direct violation of the law, and this is the Law on Public Servants, which does not provide for such contracts with such severance. Nor does the Law on Public Servants provide for unlawful discharges, so that this contract can also be questioned on the basis of the law. Most in the programming world have been misled and apparently behind her back on their behalf signed under the suspicion of an illegal and unacceptable contract by the President or some minority within the programme council. So nothing helps the 29-member RTV programming council if a minority inside can do what they did. And this allows the current law to manage and operate this RTV house with such a structure. That is why it has already been mentioned today that I am inclined to reduce the number of these most important bodies, such as the Programme Council and the Supervisory Council, because I am confident that this will cut down on the wings of politics, its interference, because only five members of the Programme Council are directly loved here in the National Assembly, and finally this supervisory function will be able to come to terms more than it is now. What this guidance and others can do in this house under such a contract, we can only guess. But I'm assuming it's not the only tycoon story or the Tycoon Treaty, but it's probably more than that, but it's the other inspection services, the Court of Auditors and so on. And in the end. In a way, I agree with the idea they have given, I think that the coordination of trade unions, which has written one letter, is that the appointment of responsible editors is not with agreement, but that it is somehow a legally recorded commitment that leaders and employees exchange information and coordinate each other before the authorities responsible under the law take final decisions in appointing editors, programme editors and in appointing other members of the board who are not only the director, but is a five-member administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister with co-workers! We are at the beginning of the parliamentary adoption of the law on RTV. I have looked at some parts of the magnetogram, including yours, Madam Minister, from the time we adopted the law that now operates in the public office. And many on the side that is now in the government were at that time predicting the cataclysm: the end of the world, the sun, you could almost say that it would no longer rise and so on. None of this happened. We have a stable period of action behind us. However, it began to change at the time of this government and this coalition. Slovenia slipped in the field of media freedom in two years - a long time ago we received the Freedom House report, which shows that Slovenia slipped from 39th to 56th and landed among African countries. Freedom of speech has decreased according to these international indicators. And here you can see the direct political impact on the media of the current government. Madam Minister, in your previous term, you have dealt so much with the previous Minister, your predecessor, and with RTV that I was convinced that you were a doctorate in this area at various virtual universities at this time. I expected, as the main political objective, that on the first day of this coalition, as you predicted, you would bring a new law on RTV. Then it was necessary to move from words to actions. In the previous term, there was propaganda about how everything is wrong. When I look at your opus sent questions to the Minister of Culture, it's huge, it was mainly about this matter. But the law came from nowhere, even though you predicted it. Then came the marriage that was all torn apart, and the secretary withdrew it. I admit, Madam Secretary, you have a very difficult job to do. Satisfying the appetites of the current coalition after a decisive influence in the media and RTV, after turning a public institution into a state television institution, it is not easy to work, but hide it from the public and mislead it further. I can also see from the performances so far that some tensions have arisen within the coalition, because appetites are great everywhere. And this fight within the coalition, who will be the one who dictates the rules of the game, among you has not yet been fought to the end. Of course, it was also perceived, as virtually every legislator in this area, that you also wrote that "the main solutions are to increase the autonomy of the public service, in relation to the centres of political and capital power". It's a bottle of paper. In the presentation of the views of the Social Democrats, it was said that the world of the institution or now the world of RTV must once again play a decisive role in creating content. If we translate this into a normal language, it means: "We will manage television as we will conclude in politics, the formula of the world's creation is one that will ensure it." This is, of course, a political skill to reduce by half, and you will sell to the public how now more rational the appointment will be and that will ensure I do not know what standards. No, recalculated. If so said SD party, which is the political successor of a party that has so designed perfectionism, control of journalists and editors and control of the media, then it can be seen that the SD is not fully satisfied with the form given by the minister. That there are finesse where an editor could slip away. And look, with regard to editorial policy autonomy, independence, I must say that you must admit that it has been at a high level in the previous period. Take a look at the show, say one comparable, reference show Studio City. If you look after the entire previous period, I did it, the guests were somehow between 60% and 70% who belonged to the opposition option in the previous term, and between 30% and 40% of the then government option. So the show was opposition throughout the mandate. It is said, editor, that journalists have maintained complete autonomy and independence. You'd expect these editors to be up to speed, and when the power changes, they'll change. That didn't happen! It's become even more so, but now it's not an opposition show anymore, it's a government show. Look at the selection of guests, and you will see that these percentages have increased in favour of government guests and government propaganda. I believe the editors are awake, but it's political pressure. For this same journalist, or creator, who had previously appointed him, quoted from today's Work, wrote in an interview for the Evening, "there has never been as much politics in the RTV house as there is now". And, of course, the current government policy has old historical levers, how to control the media, and has practically succeeded in taking over powers, despite the fact that there are only the same people at the top, because in the previous term the radio has already been told that the director has failed practically with no thing that an assistant journalist has dictated everything. And I could give you more cases like this. And here it was also said that it was initially thought that the media law would be needed first, and then the RTV that some within the coalition said that. It makes sense to me that you've given up on this, because you have printed media, except for Finance, 100 percent under control. A dramatic case is the pre-referendum campaign and the abuse of the last Friday before the referendum. And of course, the current authorities do not need to change the media law, but if it works, if it works absolutely. Even in the evening was the abuse of electoral silence, the call on the day of the electoral silence, how people should vote, because the one who published the call, he put himself on the client poster that came into every house. It's a classic abuse. From this point of view, it is clear that the solutions are such that they will institutionalise the positions that you have already won with threats, threats, pressures, but will now be institutionalised. This will significantly reduce journalistic autonomy and independence and, above all, through editorial pressure, you will do so. Of course, they are here for the purpose of some such a solution even with regard to status, because if the government does not understand it, then I do not understand that such things are brought into the house. But in the confusion, the left was always able to take advantage of her position in the fog.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u111	I ask for peace in the hall from all sides, not just one.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u112	This is why this marriage is bad, and so does about 70% of journalists and employees in the house. They fear this control, the reduction of autonomy, the pressure and the increase in what journalists themselves from other houses in the Bulmastif affair have suggested that the current policy of pressure on editors through so-called legionaries. Not directly from the Ministry, but dedicated people orbiting ministries are calling editors and threatening them. This is in line with, say, what threats and what pressures have been placed upon some experts who have not understood the outcome of secret diplomacy, as far as the arbitration agreement is concerned. Crazy pressures. And before that, I mentioned a fully unilateral campaign in print media: 90% for the government side, maybe 10% for the opposition side. And in such situations, of course, it is achieved what is ordered. It was ordered, "you must work in such a way that the referendum succeeds." And with such a disproportionate publication of all of this, that is the result. The classic product of such a school was this law, although, Madam Minister, I stress, you had problems because it was not easy to camouflage it, even though, as I said before, you were doing a doctorate on this subject in your previous term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The secretary wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you very much. There have been a number of views to be clarified, explained, demandated or underlined. In the opening act, I said that the marriage didn't take place overnight. He was formed in dialogue with various interlocutors, and in the end with all of you. It didn't come about so we wouldn't ask anyone anything because we know we don't know everything. Today it was not desirable to return to the scene of the accident four or five years ago when the law was drawn up, where no one was questioned. Not the unions, not the workers' world, not anyone else. But I think and I never agree to thinking, understanding political affairs, that is to say the visions of power, where one head dictatorship would rule. In the case of this law it was, and this has also proved to be true. I do not comment on whether this reality has brought lower ratings to RTV Slovenia, nor whether it has brought worse financial, social, social, reputation or reduced the reputation of RTV Slovenia. It is difficult and wrong to talk about this, because always judgements can be very subjective. But I know that the best were leaving, but I know that the responsible people in decision-making places, or in bodies such as the Supervisory Council and the Programme Council, went to be ashamed of being there, and they didn't want to share violence, thoughts, within RTV Slovenia. That is why it is the only thing I have graduated from, and I will continue to graduate, defending such a medium, which will not only promise better and cheaper programmes, but will work with open heads and open eyes and will function transparently, spread the spirit of horizons, make it accessible to everyone else and will also develop the creative power of speech. And all the reasons are that one more modern, certainly not in any drawers compressed, from naphthalene collected, the system could make this possible. I believe that this can be because I also graduated as a journalist at RTV Slovenia and as an author and therefore I know [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u115	Mr Jerovšek, please [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u116	that it can work well, independently and insubordinately for those who think that there is power only in the land of pleasure and power. [[...]] However, I would like to comment on the views of some of those who took the floor today to clarify some of the issues that I understand are not easy. This government is very busy considering how to reform the public sector. Not only because he has brought us to some degree into crisis because of inflexibility, non-responsibility, not enough management approaches within the public sector, including in cultural institutions. My predecessor's already started thinking about it. And also because the world thinks differently and the public institution of RTV Slovenia, which is already full of exceptions within this law, because one is an exception, so it is also a law, but it is still stuck in some spasms that a different organisation, and in particular a more responsible organisation, can release. And I'd like to start with responsibility. In this regard, the representative of the Zares Group also started speaking in her presentation of the position on responsibility. What happens to members of the board, the supervisory board, the programming board, as defined by the new law? The members of each body shall be given the specified conditions with regard to the achievement, operation and difficult experience. Members of the Board and also members of the Supervisory Board must even have a certificate of competence for members of the Supervisory Boards. They don't even have to do this in public institutions. We know that sometimes it is an unknown ease in decision-making, thinking, and also in controlling, controlling institutions in general. And we know that we have them in all the times of our lives, culture, health, education, huge. We are also talking about the great personal responsibility of the members of the world. The members of the Management Board and the members of the Supervisory Board shall be responsible in accordance with the rules governing the liability of members of management and control bodies in companies. Today, by the way, it has been repeatedly said that we proposed that when we first came to the National Assembly for a public presentation of opinions, the law that was framed in economic society. No, it's not true, it was a good marriage, it was too avant-garde law, it was not yet a prepared space law that did not say that public RTV Slovenia was an economic society. Not at all. But it is a society that is a structure that can also be referred to certain segments of the Company Act. This form was sought by many who were then dissatisfied in public within our group of experts. And there were more than 20. Many wanted, and they are very disappointed that, let's say, this way is more flexible than it is now. But the future is still in the hands of our descendants. The same shall apply to the responsibility of members of the Council in cases where they exercise the function of management and control, they shall be responsible in accordance with the rules governing the liability of members of the management and control bodies in the participating companies. For example, the President of the Council of RTV Slovenia, Mr Granda, would answer with his assets if the law were in force, as proposed, and if he had allowed and signed such a contract as was signed for the Director of RTV Slovenia, who, look at him, does not want to understand somehow that his mandate has expired and that he has been elected another. In the night to adopt the marriage is - what will you say? - so fast, there was a mistake. It was a bad marriage, but it's got a hole in it. Not just one. However, Mr Granda would be responsible for the property, and so would all, including representatives of the national communities, of the religious communities, those whom you will appoint here, with their responsibility for things that do not comply with the legal provisions. More than that, Mr Barovic, it was not entirely clear what he was thinking, or he did not quite know what the contents were. But he was talking about, "we won't have any more games, we won't have any more sports, educational, we won't have anything." Now we don't have the program required by the RTV Slovenia Act, let's say this is an April Act, if I say so, now a law in force. The law now in force refers to the mandatory quotas of independent producers. Are these quotas respected? One year will be from when we spoke here on the opposite side of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport about not being respected. And then some members of the Supervisory Board said, "if so, if you're coming with these evidences," and we had this evidence, "then we're going, we're going away." Of course you all started shaking. But today it is proven that quotas for independent parts of producers are not respected. It's measured. If the quota that the media law will still have is not respected and that is also discussed by the law on RTV Slovenia, if it is not respected in the future, the administration will have to leave management of RTV Slovenia. It is this responsibility that is not today, that is not respected, and no one is responsible for anything. Write down so much and so much wages in case of early or unjustified forgiveness, 24, 32. It's written. There's more that doesn't say! What's not to be written! The contract, for example, signed by Mr Granda with Mr Guze, the contract that RTV would pay him the insurance costs to cover his liability. We now have our, this so poor law, which states in Article 33, as you can see, the responsibility of the members of the management and control bodies that such a thing cannot happen to RTV Slovenia to cover the costs of insurance for liability in the performance of the tasks of the body to which they are members. That's not possible because it's stupid. That is why, of course, the law prohibits it, while Grandi has not banned anything and has been extended and made annexes, such as when the power was changed, as the elections were still taking place, the island of Blejski sold. But in addition to financial and institutional independence, as mentioned by colleague Zalokar, you also spoke about, and this also about Mr Ribič, about the world of RTV Slovenia, which, I admit, was quite difficult to put together because different opinions have brought different proposals, different desires. Even today there are great desires, or different desires, or even unharmonized desires when it comes to the national community. And our group had different scenarios. Believe, including different approaches and views. And there could have been 20 of them, not just 3, 5. But the world of RTV Slovenia will represent the widest range of beneficiaries of public service services. As we know, three representatives of employees are in the proposed 15-member RTV Slovenia Council. Let me get this straight, now it's a debate circle, Mr Kumer would say with the crop leaves the elected debate circle with 29 members in this mandate, which had very different and, of course, very quickly dispersed responsibilities. You know, as many as there are, there's more fog there can be, the more translation of responsibility from one to the other and as few clear as possible, and certainly the very summation of power. The 15-member Council with the above-mentioned responsibilities, personal responsibilities, they respond with their own property if they do not comply with the rules laid down by the law. And the law lays down very, very taxive rules because sui generis, because he had to exclude all possible shortcomings of those references in other laws that he does not have this time, except when it comes to the law on institutions. The 29-member Council is reduced to a flexible, responsible and very strong 15-member Council, which has the structure to represent the proposed elected and large selection here, with great responsibility and with a long process, a really long process, is not right that it is so long, but is transparent and is good, in the National Assembly, within the representatives of civil associations, within the presentation of the two members proposed by the President of the State and three members of the workers. Whoever recalls that draft we had in the public debate within the public consultation of opinions, where the administration was different in mind, as now the world is meant in relation to representatives of employees in RTV Slovenia. The first drafts followed logic to participate as much as possible in the management of the institution, so we offered employees the opportunity to be a compulsory part of the five-member administration. We said the administration has power, a lot of decisions, a lot of responsibility, a system of organisation, and, of course, it touches, if not the other, employees in the first place. The unions we talked to and, by the way, so far no government has spoken to, nor have they talked to the unions before when the so-called Grimes Act was formed. In short, unions and employees with whom we had almost half a year of discussions did not want a working director, so they got three representatives in the world and, in a way, did not force us, but somehow forced us to a different approach to the composition of the world, even in a larger number are represented. But if we look at this dissatisfaction, today it has been repeatedly quoted through a survey about the representatives of the world who, by the way, held some elections and supported the current director of RTV Slovenia or Mr Guzei, because we do not know who the current director is, in a vote of 13 votes against two, I do not know whether they were new elections, but they did. In short, representatives of the Council, representatives of RTV employees Slovenia will have three representatives within the 15-member Council in the future, now they have three within the 29-member Council, which colleague Juri has already pointed out today. And there is no doubt that satisfaction from this point of view can be great, though unrecognized. I believe that, however, it is important to stress that in discussions with trade unions, it is said with three unions, a press union, a cultural and artistic workers' union and an RTV Slovenia broadcasting union, and with the world of employees we had seven, eight long coordinations, as I say, lasted six years. Believe me, a great deal of their proposals, when we signed the protocol, are all these proposals also listed, and I will not inform you of all the additions that came at these meetings to the law and are appropriate, good and not at all, but that the sight of someone coming from within can also make the law well. There has been only one or one general invisibility, although journalists' unions have been sympathetic in the past and also to the recent consideration that RTV Slovenia’s public servants should withdraw from the public service system, in short, RTV Slovenia’s employees should no longer be in the public service system. This is an important move that is taking place and is being proposed and referred to a history that is very important. It goes at a time when it has been explicitly wanted, seen, and we all do not understand why it is necessary for a journalist, a journalist, a responsible editor, an editor and all authors who design one way or another the media indirectly, and in particular national media, to be good that it is not in the system of public servants as defined by our system. At that time, the desire was clear, unequivocal. You all know that in 2008 there was also a reform of the pay system, which has significantly helped to change wages to RTV Slovenia, 17.6% of them have been raised, settled, arranged differently, because the Ministry of Culture is concerned about verifying salaries in the public sector, and I must admit that there have been no anomalies within all our other public institutions, where we have also checked, but not the funds and agencies, the translations have been exemplary. There were a lot more of them here. But still, these are the adjustment processes that are likely to continue. With representatives of representative unions and also employees, we have essentially received a very important article in the transitional provisions, and it is important that you yourself know when we are talking about the transition from the so-called public sector to RTV Slovenia. This transition, or this article, says that as long as the leadership and until RTV Slovenia, the administration and all decision-makers negotiate a new collective agreement with the employees, nothing happens to them, their salaries are not reduced, they are not abolished, I will not say the ratings, but those rights that they now have in the collective agreement and do not threaten them in any way, their contracts, until the conclusion of a new collective agreement. We could not write in the law whether it was two years, three years, five years, because they would dictate the pace of coordination. But anyway, with their help, it's with all our interlocutors who have told you that there are some reservations, but we've defined a way together. To tell you the truth, however, this is my personal thought, even after all these discussions, they have no problem in making sure that they are not harmed by their rights. Perhaps they are, and I believe they have seen that they can have a better position than they can if they step out of this sector than other public servants have. Let us look at the crisis situation now, which will, or certainly, already in some way put restrictions in the public sector, as far as progress is concerned, or in times of crisis, the Republic of Slovenia has tenderly, very gently tried to harmonise in social dialogue so as not to escalate wages in spirit, as they were conceived in the time of fat cows. And I think, if they were outside this sector now, perhaps if the government were to negotiate worse, they could negotiate better. It is also necessary to think of another vision and another aspect that can be here and has its advantages. You were talking about the problem of the uncertainty of this factory or why we do not also place RTV Slovenia in some drawer in this case, why we do not give it status or economic society, d. o. o. or anything, why soi generis. And you were saying that this could jeopardize her performance. This law was prepared by the services of the Ministry of Culture on the basis of proposals previously made. But they examined it in terms of any doubt you believe, and I have it, and I have it just as you may have now. But I have a one-year process of behavior that's not possible because we're from A to Z, not with one lawyer, and this respectable, checking all the traps, but somehow it could be different. Also with Mr Bohinec, who, if you read the text differently, not just the title, takes his way of thinking, he will find in this law what he wants: about property, about autonomy and about public servants. It was said today, for example, Mr Györek said it was a little different elsewhere. Of course it's different. Traditions are different, not only as regards regulation, but also as regards the status arrangements of RTV Slovenia, where national television as well as society is established, or as a share company, or as an economic society, each country has something else. It's very, very small in the form of a public institution. And let's say Austria, which was said how nice it is there, that they have it all as a public institution; no, it has an economic society and is treated in terms of the law governing economic society. Today, too, a presentation of the LDS Group's position, where very meaningful emphasis was placed, however, also raised one very specific question, whether the payment of the premiums of voluntary pension insurance would then be compromised by this exit. We have checked and coordinated this – the transition is possible without risks and also without financial consequences or any threats. Mr. Zorn, when you presented the position of the SDS Group, you had an X-ray image of the Government, you penetrated to the Government by having an opinion of the Law and Law Service and the Ministry of Public Administration, but with a little delay, you got a little bit of this material by temporary delay, because to the end of the material aligns, to the sometimes so-called last breath, during the Government, what you quoted was much earlier, but really, so thoroughly – not so thoroughly – not so thoroughly – it was as sometimes when it didn't even know what was going through the Government – basically that we also sat with the Law and Law Service in the article after 15, 16 hours, say. Well, I'm overreacting now, but there was a thought, and you quoted the material, which is from one previous period, which rightly warns of the trap, because after all we're applying and we've brought the law, which to a large extent modernised and the rate where others didn't step because they didn't hope because they wanted to have the status quo, we don't want to have it. And that's why it takes some courage, and that's why you have to do something and work something out and, not overnight, get something together. Also, fear, I will also address the President of the National Assembly, as regards the third parliamentary programme, which, by the way, if you review all the studies again, is nowhere to be arranged as we do. Nowhere. And that's what we said four, five years ago, but okay, now it is. It is now being implemented in a way that completely violates an article that speaks about what the RTV Slovenia Parliamentary Programme is when it now appears on the air. Perhaps this moment is already a transfer, but it is a real information programme with its documentary, contact and so on programmes. But, okay, I can only suggest to you what it would be like to expect to happen in the future also in the light of the parliamentary programme, so we gave him a transitional period, but this is related to some understanding that is possible for us who are no longer the youngest generation, or which we do not follow this technical levies so quickly, it is necessary to know that technological development brings different access to the media and other media interventions. That is why we have never said anything out loud before, and this law regulates the EU acquis or the recommendation of the Commission of the European Union regarding the so-called new audiovisual media services, which is what you will see very precisely what the world needs to do. New services, giving consent to new services. The new services are those that come into the electronic media and, of course, also into the national RTV Slovenia, which brings specialised thematic programmes with a different way of offering and RTV Slovenia has already announced them, say, has announced a special programme of cultural and educational profile and, frankly, I see a niche for the parliamentary programme through such a special service. But this special service, difficult to explain to you, we cannot write, Government, the law cannot define this, because in the future it will be decided by the Council on the proposal of the Supervisory Council, the evaluation of ratings and so on. The procedures are very long. In this way I see it somehow, you, Mr Gantar, have been the Minister of the Information Society and you certainly know more than I do what it is and that's fine. We are not talking about the fact that we do not need a parliamentary programme to end it. It is true, however, that it would make sense for him to define a different status, a different payer and ultimately to end the situation in which he is, because now, as he is, happening in a different way than it is in the law. Mr Jerovšek, last time I answered your question, you said that the problem was that freedom of the media was diminishing in terms of measurement and the report given by Freedom House recently. I told you then, but since you were gone and I have some time left, I can tell you that I'm afraid it's gonna get worse next year. Once the press were beaten, and a few weeks ago, Mr Begić, because he wanted to photograph one of the entrances to a factory, that's when the scale fell. For example, I doubt that anyone has missed the fact that one lawsuit or one decision in the case of a journalist who should not do what the social court has decided to do has left me overlooked, and we know that on RTV Slovenia there is still or I think that Mrs Male, despite the decision, the leadership does not allow her to do what the judicial branch of power says she can do. I was saying there was no respect for the quota for audiovisual content of independent producers. I doubt that anyone, let's say, overlooked if I'm talking about just one segment that can reduce this degree of freedom, although, as I say, when it came to lower media freedom in our country, I told you on Monday that there was one big event or at least three that happened in the previous year when this measurement happened, that temporary court order that prohibited the writing of this Italian businessman – what happened, Cerani. There's also a story about Berglund, I guess. That's what I'm saying. What were those surpluses that were likely weakening some open society and its reputation? It is true, but here I agree with those who speak non-verbally to me, this fall of the fourth year is taking place in the whole world, even in the so-called developed Middle World and is worrying, not only in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thank you very much. First of all, Madam Minister, thank you very much for this liberal recognition or announcement that freedom of speech and media freedom will be made even smaller next year. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u119	I ask Mr Gorenak and Madam Minister to stop.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u120	I believe you, even on RTV there will probably be reprisals under this law. [[...]] Basically, my colleague told me what it was like with Sasha Veronica under your former authority, your options, your brands. But now, on what I wanted to replicate to you, because I told you that you were a doctor, metaphorically, repeatedly on the mother of this marriage, and at some encounter with the former minister. And in fact, I'd like to allow you to speak so frankly about the power of pleasure and power. I can see that with some adulation you are now accepting this power so that you can sort things out on this idea or according to some of your ideas, and I would also say that it's not just ideas that sometimes get you carried away with your emotions. And you really gave yourself up with the pleasure of giving yourself up to this inner lever after prestige, and you in some way admitted it by saying that you don't want to go back to the place of the accident, so to speak, to the opposition where you were in your previous term. We're very different here. I do not see opposition as an accident, and I was also critical in the opposition function, and I actually feel better in opposition. But then you also said that we were witnesses — as you said — to the dictatorship of one head. I don't know when I'm looking at former Minister Simoniti, I don't think he has one attribute of dictatorship in him, and he hasn't been shining the sweet power. They're different here. And I don't know how one head that's not in a central position can cause, or even mentally, some kind of dictatorship. But we are. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u121	My friend Jerovšek, please finish the replica [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u122	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u123	three minutes [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u124	Yeah. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u125	Finish the thought. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u126	But we are. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u127	or a sentence, the thought could be too long. [[...]] Just a sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u128	Well, I'll also say I'm against all the Annexes, but we agree that the Kramar Prize has done a lot of damage and that the trials I'm condemning have begun. And I'm against the Annexes, and these last ones won't come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word is Silva Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your statement, Mr President Pavel Gantar. Well-known Minister Majda Shirca, other colleagues and colleagues. Of course, media legislation is the one that causes a lot of noise and rumposomes, I mean, everywhere, even in public and among voters. I must admit that I am not exactly qualified to speak about this media legislation, because, after all, I am not such an amateur or an observer of the RTV programme, but I have many friends, acquaintances and, finally, voters who regularly and very, very often watch our national. And one of them just warned me that I had to have a mandatory discussion today, even though I was very, I would say, skeptical and I wanted to check out, and he said, "Silva, is it true that we don't have a national and that we have a sui generis? What is sui generis?" And a man who has a doctorate in science. And I started to explain, and then I started laughing as much as the audience in this room laughs, and I said that it's probably not the status that defines the content and activity of some institution, especially the public institution. Well, in the following explanation, let's say that I get a little bit familiar with the functioning of a public institution or a little bit more because I led a public institution for 18 years, and I got to know this legislation well, and I saw how some contracts arise, in particular contracts of an individual character in a public institution that are signed with the managing director, the director or whatever they are called in a certain public institution. But everything — more or less — is concerned about this national woman’s mission. The national delegation in terms of whether the nationalist will ever play, say, puppet shows, or whether the nationalist will also play any theatre performances because this has happened in the past. They are concerned that we have so many ads and that we do not have ads like before, for example, when our creative creators were able to show the originality of the Slovenian view of a particular product – for example, when we talked today about the protection of generic products and so on. I think it would be interesting to look at, in the light of Cockta and today's exhibition, which we're going to open or open at the Ethnographic Museum. Well, that's what people are worried about. And those people who stop me just ask me, "Well, we have nothing to look at our nationals!" In fact, some politicians are not really interested, nor are they interested in transmitting various political events and would like to see a concert, a jazz concert, a classical music concert and not only do I not know which hand and so on. I understand people's resentment and that people are never grateful and that 70% means nothing. I worked in a public office, and I know how we worked together, but it was never good, despite the fact that things were always improving. But the concern about how to archive for future generations also a cultural mission that is created in and outside the country is very present, given that we know that this bill is for television programs, for programming schemes, is not enough and that what is from advertising is not enough. Specialized thematic programmes and assemblies are, of course, always welcome. They told me, "Tell me why there are no cartoons and the like, why there are no more documentary films about known personalities or even those small people who co-created Slovenia to stand and become such." This is also part of a national delegation. If someone's worried and doesn't know what a nationalist is, and thinks that a sui generis is something completely different, I don't think the status itself can change much. They change people, change those who lead, and tighten conditions and control and responsibility. And what is the responsibility, how this responsibility is monitored and how it is determined. It is also important who notes this responsibility and how that responsibility actually dissipates. I'm sorry that the original idea you set up in law to make the world smaller didn't come to an end because it increases responsibility. Because 29 people, 15, 9 or 5 people, are definitely a significant difference because you can call this guy and this guy, and Jureta and Muran and say, "You're responsible for this program." But so often changing the status of a public institution, and even one public institution, which is so important and very important, has almost one of the most important missions, is not clear to people and does not understand. That is why they are criticising, I think, even though this law has had the opportunity and has also survived a very large number of public hearings. Anyone who wanted also said a lot of good and bad and critical things about how and how and why things are better or will be better. I will support this marriage in the first reading. I am convinced that a thorough correction must be made because the responses are strange, unusual and not least interesting within the same circle of arbitrators, but, in particular, if we look at them in due course; for example, within six months, they are of the same personality and, last but not least, they have changed opinions. I don't mind that the opinion changes if these opinions are changed under the influence of different arguments, but that they change their opinions so often, I don't understand it or I'm not that close. I believe, and I hope, that further consideration here in this high house will also contribute to the improvement of the marriage, but it is certain that the law itself will not improve the activity, it is improved by the people, its cardiac membership of the institution and the mission they carry out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word is "Miran Potch."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I don't envy the minister that she had to go to the new RTV law. But it had to be because I think that this coalition and I personally would not want to be in a position once again to take decisions on the composition of the supervisory council and the world in the way we did it by law, which was adopted five years ago, where it was predetermined who could, who should not be by political criteria, not by interest, within the individual interest groups designated in the world, where politics then had the most important impact on all other decisions, including human resources and thus on the content of the programme. That is why I think it was necessary for the amendment of the law to be approached, to be pursued. I am aware, however, that the political differences in the way public RTV is regulated are so great that this task was not easy and easy. Many among us, I must say, unfortunately, especially from among my colleagues on the other hand, regularly evaluate television, not according to some programming scheme, but after which broadcast they like, which do not, but especially when political comments are appropriate to the views of these colleagues. Even today, read the tape and you will see how many times you have estimated what this television is in a political sense and by content is or is not, instead of talking to each other about what arrangements in the law should be, in order to really satisfy what we all say: that it will be professional, independent, neutral, high-quality, that it will have enough rich content, that it will not only be political, but something else. I believe that this law will not provide ideal solutions, either, but I am sure that because of what we have today, it would be very important to see whether the solutions given in terms of the financing system might not forgive the excessive open door for commercialising the visa of public interest. I think it would be right to look at whether it is provided in the context of public television with a sufficiently independent, independent role, from appointment to implementation, people who create the programme – I am thinking in particular about the political part of the programme. Whether there is sufficient responsibility to have the means to create a programme, even though she is a minister, and I am grateful to her, many concrete, clear things she has said about how this is ensured compared to the current solutions. And I think that we will also have to look at the content of the third parliamentary programme. This is a point where I disagree with the Minister's position and I find it difficult to say that he was contrary to the current law. I have read several times the provisions that today, I think, in Article 57, are much more important than the provisions that were in force in the current law are not, and which give, at least after my interpretation, the possibility that, apart from direct transfers under the third national – no, Article 55 is, I apologize – that in the context of the third parliamentary programme, there are still content related to Parliament or the National Assembly, or the State Council, or the European Parliament, or in part the work of the Government and the ministries, and not only undirected direct transfer, but also some kind of conversational broadcast, comments and so on. This is my opinion, and I am afraid if the practice is to reduce the third parliamentary programme exclusively and only to direct transfers, then the information content will be poorer in Slovenia, because this is why the first and second programmes, in my opinion, will no longer have or will not have any more, and in the third programme the content will be limited. While I think it will be an absolute bad solution and I hope it will not be that the National Assembly has any role to play in the content, because thank God it still does not have today, regardless of whether we as individuals are ever satisfied or not, and I would like it to remain that way. I would therefore also like to see the decision on what this programme will be, but not in any other way within the framework of public RTV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word is Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I agree with those who say that there is no point in praising the previous law and criticising the one that is preparing, so in my debate I will rely only on the documents that I have received either on the table or perhaps on the Internet. And I'd start with the Internet, predicting today's debate on the RTV Act. It says, "The proposal of the law stipulates that RTV will be a separate legal person of public law of particular cultural and national importance. The number of members of the Council is also changing, from the current 29 to 15 as well as the way they are appointed. The office would be run by the 5-member board, and it would be supervised by the 7-member Supervisory Board." End of quote. Five-member board, that's the rarest thing. We can see that even in fairy tales there are no five-head dragons, because they would probably either starve to death or swallow themselves up because they couldn't agree on which head to do something. But, well, again, I quote, "the news has also been told by most RTV journalists, which has been shown by a survey conducted by the coordination of RTV news unions. 66.88% of those participating in the survey objected to the proposal that employees in the institution should no longer be public servants, 33.12% supported this solution." Since it is also about salaries, because it is also mentioned, I can say that, as far as I know about matters, if we find such a high consensus on such a matter, it is already something or very wrong or I do not know how else. If 67% are against something, it should be imagined. If I go to the document that I received on the table, I think that we have received it from all the members of the National Assembly, that you will not be able to tell me that I am discussing and creating reparations, I will read to you what is written in this open letter by the members of the National Assembly, namely from the Union of Cultural and Artistic Creators of RTV Slovenia. "In the past six years, we have led social partners at the level of the country and at the level of the institution to make difficult negotiations on the public sector's pay system and have completed them by signing the annexes to the collective agreements. The Public Institute of RTV Slovenia has started to use a comprehensive and transparent payment system, which it has not yet had in its history. We were assigned by translation to jobs from annex. For the first time, we have been systematically advanced, even back, as RTV Slovenia has not so far. A transparent list of additives and a transparent system of horizontal progress have also been introduced. We haven't had that opportunity before." And then, the question is, "why is it a thank-you to the pay system, which has received a lot of sharp criticism years ago; because up to the last 20 years, the RTV payroll system or payment systems have been chaotic and underestimating especially to creators in the field of cultural and artistic radio and television programmes"? It is further written: "The old salary situation was aroused by the annexes, which, without a systemic basis, were divided either into unreasonablely high or ridiculously low index values, in the course of the negotiations, in the negotiators on the government side of the resistance and in the assessments where we were ashamed as negotiators and as employees in the institution. Also, almost every third employee had a sort of own job. All of this shall be verified at the competent Directorate of the Ministry of Public Administration. It was an unsupervised system, so it was easy to abuse. This was, of course, at the time of entry into force before the current system was put into effect. The fear of employees who oppose the exemption from the public servants system is therefore tangible, the return to the old situation and, sooner or later, also the actual burial of content which, according to the drafter of the law, is not marketable. So these are a number of artistic types, a wide range of educational content, children's and youth shows, documentary types, a palette of cultural and informational types, perhaps just entertainment or sports shows." Further: "The public service's tasks in the field of radio broadcasting are essential for a healthy society. This appropriation is intended to cover public resources rather than adapting to market demand and thus assessing the expected taste of the public." Finally, it is also written in bold: "The change of status of RTVS only supports the external representative of professional journalists. Once again, the change in the status of RTVS is supported only by the external representative of professional journalists. This is unacceptable for the creators of cultural and artistic content. It is an act of cohesiveness of the narrow circle of the journalistic sphere with politics and ignorance, as if the law had been written only to establish the threshold presented in the explanation by claiming that the law would allow greater autonomy of the journalistic profession. In real ridicule, the rule of law and the social partners that show representation for RTV activity, i.e. representative authority for all negotiation and guidance procedures, is the signing of an agreement on the degree of consistency between the articles of the proposed law and the social partners and representatives of the journalistic profession who are not representative of the broadcasting activity. This is a malicious, even more, act directed against cultural and artistic content on national RTV and the beginning of their abolition." Next is something else written, below is the signature of representatives of the union of cultural and artistic creators of Radio and Television Slovenia. So, I didn't make that up, that's what all the MPs got, with the signature, with the press, and I just read it here. That was, of course, the end of the quote. In the debate it was said that a wide range of people participated in the preparation of this law, you might say, the flower of Slovenian media science, and the union will write what I read to you. Other things are written, and I don't think it's a waste of time, because that's all that's said. Of course, they're against it. Not to mention a circus about the appointment of a CEO. Experts don't even know what two-thirds are. That's a sui generis. And then one of these experts says that they're going to complain about anything and they're going to prove that 16 for two thirds of 15 is enough for two thirds, or one number less, it doesn't matter. It's a sui generis – it's experts themselves. This is certainly not a good way to change the law. I would say, however, that perhaps it is not yet so critical in this institution, because Mr Pahor is not yet regulating the situation. Wherever critical, the President of the Government begins to regulate the situation, starts to go every Monday or goes to that institution once a month, to that company, and begins to regulate the situation. By the way, God knows, yesterday he didn't want to come to parliament to explain to us what he was talking about in Tripoli; maybe he was talking about it there. Now it's all for the end, either politics or apolitical. Good, because Mr. Pahor is not there yet, let's say there is no such situation. However, as to the political or apolitical situation or the functioning of the public institution of RTV, I would only recall this if, at that time, we were talking about the political and apolitical nature of the operation on RTV and that the situation is now very political, then the question arises to me whether Mr Kocijancič, when he was there, was in the public interest, because it would be difficult to discuss the political and non-political nature of the operation at that time. The only thing we can discuss is public interest. I agree that the ministry, the minister who presides over it, probably has no easy work to do. If journalists write down what I have read and not all, then perhaps a dialogue with the social partners will be needed, a dialogue on some different basis. But it is true that this dialogue in Slovenia is really crumbling at all ends and places at this time. Everyone complains that there is no dialogue anymore, that the government is doing things its way, or that it is talking, but that it is like a bob against a wall. I don't think it would be good for the Ministry of Culture to start a dialogue such as that conducted by other ministries. In this particular case, I am not reading anything because I do not know what dialogue is like. The union doesn't say that there was no dialogue either. That's all I'd say is it wouldn't be good for the Ministry of Culture to take over the habits of other ministries. At the moment, the current Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Health, and any other. If we want the law being drawn up to have the content that things will not really become apocalyptic in this institution, which is a very important institution, and that the President of the Government should also start to regulate the situation in this institution, then it would be good to take the union's opinion into account, and things are being prepared and regulated by an agreement. The one with the five-headed dragon, I was serious. Because, in my opinion, dispersive decision-making is likely to have some positive effects, because it is really difficult to agree on this, because someone has to be the supreme one, because once a decision has to be made, if there are five different opinions, one has to take it. The 5-head leadership is very rare in running a system, and I don't know how it got there, but I think the number is a little high. Otherwise, I expect the Ministry to prepare, in cooperation with the trade unions, such a proposal that will be acceptable. I'm not saying that – but now I'm going to do what I said at the outset is not good – that this law governs everything good, what it is now. Certainly not, but it would not be good to get such a law, which will put it all on its head, to place the five-head dragons and not to take account of the interlocutors who are working on RTV. It may be easy for us to talk here, but those who are in this institution who live in it every day, who work there every day, who have to create a program that is criticized by our viewers, are probably not easy for them, and their word must count something, and it is probably good to take it into account. Of course, I want to tell you in preparation, I don't know what to call this, a happy hand or a favored star, because it won't be easy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I find that more and more SDS fellow Members are turning into humor and satire. This is quite fun to listen to, just make sure they don't exceed the limit of resentment. Madam Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, we're not putting things on our heads, we're trying to put things in our heads. It is said, in the light of business, responsible and challenging foundations, where the final result would be open, plural and of course quality to all and as large a public as possible an accessible programme. That is why responsibility is very important here.And if we somehow assume that we are a mediator during or that you are a mediator among trade unions of cultural and artistic workers with whom we have really sat and other observers in our coordination with others or observers of our conversations and we, I admit, wanted to impress them, we wanted to make an impression by proving cultural and artistic tracks that they are primary, so to speak, RTV Slovenia programs. If anyone can claim it, it must be said by the Minister of Culture. And we told them why you're afraid of what you're so afraid of. I mean, the law doesn't abolish public service in the orchestra field. No, no, no. He says, in fact, we already know that it is right and that it is partly working; what is not a public service for the implementation of the RTV Slovenia Symphony Orchestra is an activity that is paid on the market. Normal. But don't back out. Don't cancel the not-playing program, but get rich. I will repeat once again what has not been written so far and what cultural and artistic workers and their union could applaud directly because they would legitimately be given a basis for not violating the means, not violating their deadlines and not violating their meaning. I'm just telling you, trade unions of cultural and artistic workers: this law is written to defend your interests and I don't understand why you're afraid. In the structure of content, programmes and services provided by RTV in the framework of public service, a very precise public and commercial activity is defined, RTV Slovenia must provide in the weekly modal time of each programme or other service provided by it a majority share of cultural, artistic information, documentary or educational content. Partly there is this now and, as you will see, the media law, which is just before it goes into public discussion, that it has slightly overshadowed the current law on RTV Slovenia – we have already written a law on media in advance – it already in some way defines cultural and artistic content. But go ahead. Once a year until the end of March, the Administration must prepare a report on the provision of the majority, which is to say the previously quoted share of cultural, artistic, informative, documentary and educational content of RTV Slovenia. This report shall be submitted for approval to the Council. If the Council does not confirm the report due to an unsecured majority share, it shall initiate a procedure for the dismissal of members of the Board. Does anyone in this country have more interest in culture than in saying that the administration has to go home if it does not meet the quotas in the fields of education, art, culture? Nimah! For I speak to those who are afraid, I speak to those who think that there is a lot of distrust in the bill, I speak to art workers on RTV Slovenia and trade unions who apparently want to represent them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Barovich will not discuss it. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u138	I'm sorry it's obviously not going in order. Can I hit the table, too, Mr. Vice President? What if I can hit the table when I talk? Yes, thank you very much. I'm gonna hit the table hard because I can see you allow it. Look, the law has to say the following. Madam Minister, you mentioned Mrs. Mirjam Male. I see her as a reporter on TV, which means she's working on TV today. For the public, however, it is necessary to say that she was a letter from the substitute, that she was running on the LDS list, that she did not come to the European Parliament, and it is also necessary to say that today she is a journalist in another area and not on that. And you call it terrible bullying. I'm asking you to check in on what happened in 2000. In 2000, Mr Saša Veronik, a radio correspondent from Berlin, worked in the so-called Bajuk government for many years, and from some other European capitals. This gentleman, therefore, has only spent four years leading the pear work of Mr Bayuk, several times in front of television cameras, and when, under the law of 1 December 2000, he had to return to RTV Slovenia, by law, we know that this is so, of course they did not take him. After somehow he did the whole calvary, Madam Minister, and they gave him the job. You know what they gave him to do? He could put stamps on reminders, which are called reminders of an unpaid RTV subscription. Please check it out. I believe that's true. First he wrote warnings, and then he put stamps on them. This was a punishment for participating in the Bajuk government. How his calvary moved on, I don't know. However, I know that in 2010 it has the consequences of a four-month job in the Bajuk government. See, that's the truth. What happened to Mrs. Miriam Male? From camera A, they put her on camera B, I guess, and instead of reporting from the substation, she's doing something else. But seeing her on TV means she works as a journalist. Look, it's not fair, it's not right today to scream at what this leadership is doing, but if they were before – they were yours, as far as I know – but they did it with Mr Veronica. That's not right. Compare it, place it on the scale, and tell who the greater injustice is. Veronica's been going on for 10 years. Eliminate this injustice. Otherwise, it's the next thing. Look, talking about this program being too small for a kid, for someone young, for someone cultural, sports, national-fun, documentary, and I don't know who else. I believe that it is probably too little; for me this, for you that, for those of them. We'll never get here together. But the fact is, you have to leave it to the management to balance things and goodbye, and you'll be criticizing me or anyone. There's probably not enough culture for you, I don't know what I know, documentary shows and some historical stuff, but we'll never be happy here. You were talking about a black day four or five years ago. Please, wasn't that human will? At the referendum, that marriage was confirmed! I assume you were talking about the adoption of that marriage when you were talking about the black day, which is why I'm referring to it. Now that the law in force has been passed, it has not been a black day for me, since the people have confirmed it, then the referendum will of the people is also a black day or something, if you have thought of it. Besides, someone said before me that they wouldn't challenge a whole bunch of replicas, about getting politics out, politics out of RTV! There must be professional, independent, neutral, civil society in there. Oh, God help! If this civil society had nothing to do with politics, I would still believe you. But I'm going to describe civil society in an illustration, and I'm going to make up an MP who writes Novak, because he's not gonna challenge any replica, he has, I don't know, 100 kilograms, he's big, he's about 55 years old, he's got that kind of image and that kind of image. Just because this fellow gives himself a mask doesn't mean he's a civil society. It's not! What does that mean? To introduce your political option through civil society. That's it. A typical example of civil society, terrible civil society is an Olympic committee. It's either a civilian or whatever, it's not a state institution. And when this Olympic committee was led by a former party official, president of one of the political parties, now ruling, it came even to the head of the world of RTV or whatever, and that is civil society. I'm sorry, I meant to hit you like a predecessor. Look, this is civil society, because the Olympic committee is not ZK, it's not SDS, it's not SD, it's nothing, but it's a colored civil society. This isn't civil society, if he used to be the head of the party, don't tell me that. That's a de facto fact. It's a mask that makes you talk about civil society and everything looks good on the outside, but there's no content, but it's really politics. But, unfortunately, your political option, I'm not referring to your client, but to today's ruling parties. That's it. The exact same story is, the exact same story is, if I compare the situation with just one sentence, it happens in a court – just a sentence on this subject – where the minister proposes some new way of appointing a Attorney General. What does that mean? Independent experts will do it, he will name independent experts, and he will wash his hands and say, "I didn't do it, but civil society did it, they did it." That's not working. And the next thing, program three. I don't know what the ultimate solution is in this marriage. I don't know what's gonna fall out. However, in fact, the fact is that people see the third program, I see it from the responses, you can probably also tell me the numbers, and you will say that it is not economically justified; but the fact is that the third program allows people to see what it is in the National Assembly. Even today — an empty hall. I mean everything. People see it, and it's right to see it. And it's only right that they have that option. If we are to balance this possibility somehow, whether Mr Gantar will be the editor-in-chief of the third programme or what will happen, I don't know, you know – if this happens to Parliament. But let's be surprised. Personally, I am in the position that the third programme should be here somewhere like today, one way or another, substantively should be here somewhere. In short, I believe there will be changes in the future, but I regret to point out those two most critical points, as I said: civil society, do not talk about civil society, it is not. This is the over-painted policy of one policy option. [[adverts from benches]] Of course it is, anyway. And secondly, we are not talking about injustices, because major injustices have been committed by some of the others who have participated on this side, but in our political option only for four months, and for 10 years they have been suffering consequences. You know, that's not right. Of course, it's here somewhere and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Willie Rezman won't discuss it. Mag. Franz Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! National RTV is a public institution that, according to its mission, provides such a national programme that will be in the long-term interest of the nation in a way that will be interesting for most citizens. What do we really get out of this today? The public house, whose former president of the programme council said that he had no idea about the matter, the national's ratings are falling, the leadership is imprudent, many journalists have left. Many of the leaders of certain programs are seen from space as being favored, that is, prepared by law - abiding workers and so on. Many members of the Programme Council have resigned because they did not want to participate in the design of such a programme as we have today and which leads national RTV to a secondary television institution in the country. No wonder they left, because in fact it is that people are always looking at other programs, even though they are not in the national interest when it comes to culture, education, education, documentary programs, art and other. Therefore, the new law was necessary and brings certain positive solutions. In doing so, I welcome the smaller number of members of the Supervisory Board and the Administration, as this will concentrate on the responsibility of a smaller number of people. It is also important that the increased responsibility of the members of the Governing Council, who, in the meantime, have never, anywhere else, have ever actually been held accountable with their property for the lumpari they have made. In particular, I think about state-owned companies that have gone wrong with all the supervisory councils, in the eyes of the public, because legislation is like that, if there's no proven intent, then it all goes down, even though there's a way and something. But it is a big question for me what is the combination of a public institution that will also deal with commercial activity. I'm also not too sure it's good that we can share some profits within public RTV. I am also not sure if it is good that workers lose the status of public servants there when it comes to public office, not least if we Members can be civil servants and we are hit by that wage law in the public sector, then I do not know why it should and should be different. However, there is one point which I am being pursued in such a way that all these weaknesses, which have become apparent since the last amendment of the law in the previous term, have been known for several years, and yet we have had to wait two years for this amendment. I hope it's not because so many experts have been asked, and it doesn't matter who you ask. Some experts can see something good in combination with a public-private or public-profit office, and others not. So here I'm not sure who was asked all the questions about such a solution. But since I am determined that within today's comments and the views of the parliamentary groups on this law, in the public debate on the outstanding dilemmas that are open, there will be certain amendments to this law and that we will be able to complete it, I will certainly not be the one who would object to the fact that the matter is going forward and that we can do what we can to improve the functioning of the national radio house and its programme, so that the ratings will once again increase in general satisfaction within the public and national interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, the first question is whether we are satisfied with RTV Slovenia, as we have today. If yes, then no change is necessary. Since the answer is no, changes are necessary, and this law is also, according to my assessment, a suitable basis for further consideration, but it is not a law that could be definitively confirmed today without any changes. This, of course, also makes it impossible for the purpose of this Rules of Procedure to do so. And before I proceed with this debate, I would, however, express my protest against naming names that cannot respond to a variety of convictions, to a variety of overriding where one belongs, one such is a magician. Janez Kocjančič. He was the party's president, he was still in life, and when he was president of the Olympic Committee, he was the president of the Olympic Committee, and he was no longer the party's president. [[advertising in the hall]] Yes, you could use the Red Cross, Mr. Gorenak. Look, and it's distasteful and inappropriate, you can think of anyone you want, but it's not right that when no one can respond to statements, you use it not to say abuse. You're saying you depoliticized television in your previous term. This could be a joke if you evaluated it. We said a while ago that politics must come from the economy, but we saw how it went from the economy to the main door out and back to the side. That's the way to go! The same was true of television, and a number of such cases could be listed. Propaganda for the Government, if RTV Slovenia is doing propaganda for the existing government, then I think I belong among the deaf, the blind and elsewhere. But I believe you don't believe this from the people who are monitoring it. If anyone is criticized by this television, it criticises this government from the start. The first day they started, and the story is getting worse. But it's their independent work, I'm just answering what you're saying - that the cheerleader is up to this power. It's not reliable. But let him do, that's what the editors are for, that's why there are people responsible for their work. They may be doing propaganda for the government, but they've forgotten that she's switched in the middle, and they're more inclined than they were before, and maybe they're counting on the future. But that's what the elections will show, not those who decide it on TV. The fundamental objectives of this law, the applicant wrote: ensuring greater autonomy of public broadcasting, optimising substantive and business activities, aligning with the EU acquis. This last one is of the least interest to me, to comply with the EU acquis. For the other two purposes, I would like to see this law successfully achieved or realized. The assessment on television and also on Radiotelevision of Slovenia is, of course, different. When you ask people, some are satisfied with one another, the plurality is present and so is it. And television must also respond to this plurality by satisfying the widest possible circle of people and by not overreacting to either extreme. But it's a TV thing again, and I hope we can help and not harm. However, I doubt that this law will in itself resolve these matters and address the shortcomings, and there will certainly be more to it. However, I agree with the assessment of the third programme. I am certainly joining the criticism that has been heard in this Chamber, and I expect changes to the law in this area. The third programme, whatever it is at this time, of course can be improved. But I don't think that's the right way to go. And here I also agree with the critics of the opposition. It will be necessary to seriously consider how we will actually regulate the status of the third parliamentary programme in this law. When I said earlier in the introduction that I was wondering whether the current situation was good, and replied that it was not, of course, the ability to understand it also from the media, from the events in the house at the moment or within a few months and a few weeks ago. The director is appointed once by the council, once by the court. We don't even know anymore. One day it's one CEO. The other day it's the other director. And the second day, when the new director, the old director, was in a new place, it was the day, two other directors, this old director cancels the calls issued by the new director. If you listen to this on Radio Slovenia when they publish and then cancel these calls, it seems even more comical than sometimes in our Parliament. And when you ask people how pleased they are with TV Slovenia, as I said, we judge differently. But some say, "let's finally arrange this payment of contributions depending on whether we're watching this program or not." Like electronic tolling, it will probably take an electronic reading of the ratings of individual programmes within the offer that individual operators have. The fact that someone has an electrical connection and then it is self-evident that they also have television, and it is logical to conclude from this that RTV Slovenia is also watching to such an extent that it pays a contribution, of course, at the end of all of this logic, only illogicalness remains. But the thing is, there's no better solution at this point. However, a better solution will also have to be found in this area. The way it has been in the past and the resignations of the members of the programme board indicate that the law, which is in force at this time, is not a good law and needs to be amended. When we ask ourselves why it took so long, so long, so long, so long, so long, so long, so long, so long, so long, so long, so long, so long, so long, and so long, the law was ready, and we've already assessed that it's not suitable for further consideration, that it's not good. Well, not everything goes uncritically in this house, either. It was not discussed in the National Assembly, but it was prepared, it was discussed about this law - and a new law came in which we are also not fully satisfied, but it is a suitable basis for us to upgrade it in the second reading, as we believe it is actually right. And that is why I will also confirm this law today as an appropriate basis by voting tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs Silva Montenegro asked me to explain her discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u144	No, just a quick fix. Mr. Bojan Kontič mentioned mag., and Janez Kocijancič is Dr. Janez Kocijancič, a doctorate in law school. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u145	Mrs. Silva Montenegro, thank you very much. You told me you'd have a replica. It was short, but the replica wasn't. Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I see that the interest in the debate on this point is significantly greater than, for example, some other points when we talk about, for example, the economy or the problem solving in the economy. However, one gets the feeling that every change in government needs to be made to the law on RTV, to make an organisational change, just so that people can be replaced, both in the leadership and in the press, and all of this under the cover of increasing the independence of the Public Institute of RTV. If that were the case, and any change in the law would increase independence, this institution would already be so independent that it would be impossible, as it would not find enough independent candidates for the programming board, for the world in RTV, for the supervisory board, for the journalists you already want. There would not be as independent people as this institution would be independent after all these improvements in independence. Unfortunately, I don't have that feeling, of course, about independence. Of course, I'm not going to analyze this in detail, because I can get on the slippery ground very quickly, and I wouldn't want to do that. I would like to be honest with myself that we would really achieve some level of independence, but not that we are always translating things from one cup to another, and we are showing people a gold watch with a plumber. Moreover, it is probably also the biggest problem that this law is as inconsistent as it actually is. Even within governments, but this is actually already a fugitive practice that the laws coming into the National Assembly have been completely inconsistent lately. A few minutes ago, we got all the MPs, by the way, e-mailing one of the unions, which was previously protected from another union. This time, the Union of Workers of Radiodiffusion of Slovenia warns all of us Members about what has been violated. Five points, maybe a quick one. The drafter of the law, the Ministry of Culture, did not respect the rules of procedure adopted on the management of coordination in the process of drafting the draft law on RTV Slovenia. Point 2. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not respect the agreement reached between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the public sector unions. Thirdly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also did not respect the agreement on public sector wage measures for the period December 2009 – November 2011, concluded – etc. Fourthly, the Ministry of Culture and the Government did not take into account the opinions of the Law Service of the Government of RS and the Ministry of Public Administration, which, for these reasons, object to the examination of the content of the bill. And the fifth point, etc. In short, the matter is inconsistent. I believe that the law should, in the first place, be the basis for ensuring some level of independence, impartiality, and then the law should also allow for the business efficiency of the institution. And I'm going to tell you one of my experiences from the economy when we shot one of the crude oil shows in Lendava. In Lendava, a team with a van, six people: a cameraman, a journalist, an editor, a ton master who held a microphone, a light master with a spotlight, and one who held a lamppost, six people came to shoot 15 minutes of show. After we finished this, I told everyone, "You know, you have to fail. This institution must fail because it simply cannot go through cost-effectively. This cost efficiency that for 15 minutes of recording a show comes to Lendava six people with a van, it cannot be – in a normal country, according to my assessment.” So, we're talking about cost-effectiveness, and this law would probably also, although of course this is the primary task of leadership and so on, but also in the law probably should be the basis for cost-effectiveness detected. There's a law before us where we're turning the public office into something. In what, exactly? We don't know what to do. In some strange formula, neither in any nor in any – in short, we will see how it turns out. That seems irresponsible to me. This is public national television, and we behave as if we were dealing with a chimney company. I'm sorry. I don't want to hurt anyone. Actually, let's do an experiment. I like experiments as a chemist, but it's too serious. Finally, this experiment is opposed by more than 77% of all journalists in this public institution. I am concerned about the unprecedented fate of RTV employees, as they will no longer be public servants under the law. The Ombudsman was also contacted by a trade union of cultural and artistic creators who claim that the exemption of employees from the public servants system would mean a return to an old state and, sooner or later, also a burial of content that, as the drafter of the law states, is not market-oriented. So these are a number of artistic types, a wide range of educational content, children's and youth shows, documentary types, a range of cultural and informational types, perhaps just entertainment and sports shows. That's what they say in the union. That's not what I make up, but we can't say that they don't know the situation in the public office. I'm not going to go down to the number of members of the RTV world, the control council, because I'm actually resisting when I listen to how this solution "oh and in general" is going to be the best, the most independent, these are the responsible people themselves, but now they're alone, so I won't say what -- the bastards, in short the people who aren't for this world. In fact, this is what the problem of independence is — in number. If that were not the case, both representatives of minorities could sit in the RTV world. I don't see any reason why I can't sit both. What's the problem? The few euros you might get to sit down? Yeah, and you're not gonna sit down. There's only gonna be half of it. This law means, in my opinion, we will see for ourselves in the future, an introduction to the abolition of the third or if you want a parliamentary programme. I hope we can all change that together, because that's not good. I don't know why this channel, which has been well caught up, where it works, is my opinion that it would be good and quality, any kind of organizational change. I agree with Mr Kontic when he said that he may be able to change for the better, for sure. But organizationally and as it works now, I find it completely acceptable. But any matter can change for the better here and there. What's good doesn't change; the good football team that brings results doesn't change. For God's sake, this channel shows people or informs people what we're doing here and what we're doing. It is true that sometimes it would be better to turn off what is happening in this house, because what is happening in this house is sometimes not to look, but no matter what, at least people can create their own opinions. Finally, let me just add that I will only support such a proposal of the RTV Act, which will ensure respect for human personality and dignity, the principle of impartiality, independence and the truthfulness of information on opinion, worldview and religious pluralism and political independence and autonomy in the creation and preparation of programmes. And this marriage, unfortunately, I don't think that's the way it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary Maja Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u148	Dear Mr Žerjav, you said you were an economist and physicist, but you certainly are not a journalist. A colleague, not a colleague, not a colleague, the representative of the RTV Slovenia trade union, may be offended if they hear that politics can judge how economically workable and how right it is to do an RTV programme. There could be six employees for a 15-minute contribution, too few, there could be too many. But certainly a politician who never had a camera in his hand can't judge that. So I'm talking about how dangerous it is sometimes to judge things that we don't know. You yourself have been talking today about things that you obviously do not know well enough in terms of studying them well enough, so you quoted them today, I see, with a large frequency of incoming letters to those who do not want to change to RTV Slovenia, especially trade unions and employees, in addition to letters from the working materials of the law when it was coming. I was talking, and the marriage has that purpose. He's never had one before, so he has to change. It's not right for laws to change into four years. They must remain forever or for long or firm, at least until they are exceeded or skipped by technological development, which sometimes dictates a different pace of thinking. And this law has also been dictated by a European regulation that speaks about audiovisual parts of new services. But autonomy, Mr. Žerjav, now I am turning to you because you say that you are an economist who, let's say, is thinking about why 6 people work there and smoke money – public servants. If we weren't public servants, maybe we wouldn't!? If you think it is not necessary to make contributions; but it is done, with difficult technology and with great effort – you can, but you can. And that's always seen in seconds. But we were talking about autonomy. Autonomy in this law does not define our vision or your vision of how much a contribution is assembled, how many seconds it has, but how the system is organized. The system is organised in such a way that it will work more effectively that the Government, respected unions and representatives of employees, the government does not interfere with you. One representative shall be submitted to the Supervisory Board. One, he calls one! In the National Assembly, the procedures for the appointment of representatives of members of the Council are so rigorous, including long-term ones, the representatives of the Council will have to present their vision in the National Assembly, present their vision and perception of the media and public services. The others will have to define themselves. They don't just go on a leaf. That's why it's autonomy. Surrender property to RTV in ownership, of course, to the extent that at a certain point the Government must say or yes or no. But otherwise, management without going after papers, begging and doing anything else, trading with whom, will no longer be possible. That's just the way it's been done so far. It is said that at least a fraction of the more flexible understanding of the very broad and very complex organisational structure is needed, so a little more is needed, and so also this corporate leadership, which currently covers about 2 000 employees. But it's not just those employees. By the way, journalists have not defined themselves as they are today, when every second a percentage of satisfaction or dissatisfaction with this law has been increased in your public sector performances. Making the organisational structure more flexible means that work is better. And it is not just about the employees who have the ratio of regular employees, but I point out that there is still a need to think about those contractually connected programme makers and they have, as we all know, other problems on RTV Slovenia and a lot of serious problems.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. The line may be as far as economy is concerned, Madam Minister. I guess one person could hold a microphone in her hand, maybe even a light, and one less person could come to Lendava. In short, cost-effectiveness in such matters is important. But this is a banal thing, this is a very banal case that I've mentioned. But if thinking like that and working like that is wrong. It's not happening in the economy. This kind of nonsense just doesn't happen in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members and honourable Members, Madam Minister! I agree with most of the previous debaters, those who have proposed amendments to the law. I would be happy if we were to receive more thoughtful laws in the National Assembly than we do today. This law would, in particular, be for the benefit of the group of electors who will manage, manage and supervise the new commercial organisation RTV Slovenia, which will be provided with financial security by law so that the population will be forced to pay contributions for it, and a group of electors will be able to increase their private earnings through the commercial activity of the company which will be made possible by our own, that is, by public means. That's not what we expected from the law. Your Honor, I was expecting a law to ensure editorial autonomy and professional autonomy for journalists. This can only guarantee the safety of these people's employment and the inability to forgive key staff, editors, on political grounds. You didn't guarantee that in your marriage. The identification of journalists from the public sector even reduces the possibility of autonomous work. I also expected that the law would ensure the protection of public interest in order to provide more detailed tasks for the public service of RTV. This is not done sufficiently in the law. I also expected a more defined liability of state-owned owners, an arrangement that allows for enhanced supervision and greater transparency of business. I expected a greater impact on the users of these services. Neither did these expectations come true. Your Honor! The current regulation of the public institution RTV Slovenia is not good. This is what we know that changes are needed, because it allows for the political set-up of personnel and is worse than what was before them. It is also a poor regulation in the proposed law. It is also proposed to legislate the financial autonomy of RTV Slovenia, which would be carried out by a group of voters who would be lucky or political and other relations in order to become members of the supervisory board, or the board of the institution, or the administration of the new RTV Slovenia. The law would allow this privileged group to carry out a commercial activity for its own pocket by public means. Not only for the performance of the public service, but for the increase of private earnings by carrying out commercial activities in the institution, which we have set up to act only in the public interest. The law provides that awards are paid from RTV Slovenia's commercial activities and that the incomes of members of the supervisory boards, administrations, worlds and employees are increased. It is therefore illegal to make the wrong decision of the governments which have allowed the regulations to commercialise public institutions in a quiet manner. As a result of greed for greater profits, which is usually a passenger of commercialisation, this law would lead to a divorce of public RTV as a non-profit institution which is established and should operate only for public and not for private benefit. Any additional euro-earned activity that is not part of a public interest activity should therefore be used in this institution, as is the case with non-profit institutions in the world, only to carry out public service. However, wages and awards should depend on the quality of the public service and not on commercial activity, as proposed in the RTV Slovenia proposal. Public institutions have long aroused the appetites of many lobbying and capital. The names of some promoters of the commercialisation and privatisation of the public sector, which some ministries are following blindly, are known. They want to change public institutions in education, in health care and elsewhere into commercial companies, the type of sui generis and then to own them. This law is not the first such case. Let us recall the proposal of the Health Act, with which former Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič also intended to create commercial companies from public health institutions, both financially independent and practically without the influence of users of health services. This law was passed without consensus by trade unions and will be dealt with in the National Assembly in July. This law would also require users only to pay for the activities of these new commercial companies, and financial institutions would become market-oriented enterprises. New managers, supervisors, managers and employees of these commercial companies would share the profits from the commercial activities created by public funds, even during the public service time, and from patients they would otherwise have to take care of in the context of regular public health wages. How quickly can Sui generis, as proposed by the law on RTV Slovenia, forget about the public interest when private earnings are involved, there are examples of pharmacies. From this comes warnings from pharmacists that for greater profits today they are forced to sell medicines that are harmful to the health of users so that administrators and employees can share money from market activities. There is also a lack of good words about public interest and greater efficiency in the Acts of Pharmacy and in the Law on Pharmacy. So much for beautiful words and good intentions, which are also full of proponents and supporters of the law in the RTV Act, which are both substantively empty and without a real basis. The proposal for the so-called commercial company sui generis is an experiment that is not the same in the world, such a form is nowhere in comparable countries, nor is such a legal form in our legislation. The adoption of this law would have a long-term negative impact on the exercise of public interest in the field of public RTV. It would also encourage promoters of commercialisation and privatisation in health, education and other parts of the public sector, allow for the conduct of non-compliance with public interest and lead to the disintegration of the social state in areas where they are public institutions. That's why I can't support such a marriage. However, since it is likely to be adopted, I can hope and hope that the things we are drawing attention to in this debate will change significantly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u153	Thank you. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u154	Thank you for your word. There's almost nothing to add here. The lady was very comprehensive. I would for all those who, in your debates, turned to the law that is now in force and that was prepared in the time of our government, and it was said that we did not ask anyone anything – in fact, it reached the greatest possible consensus that he could achieve: it was confirmed at the referendum. So we asked all the people, not just the ones you think you could. First of all, because several times it was said otherwise. There are so many things that you don't even know where to start. Some things have already been exposed. I would like some of them myself, especially because since the original text, the law has indeed undergone some changes, some corrections. You say you have taken note of the comments - we are interested in who gave them and which you have taken into account. Although there was a lot of talk, it felt like we had learned through the media what was wrong, not just us, but others, that they could then comment on it. The proposals, this has already been mentioned, have also been made by the Government's legislative and legal service, including the Ministry of Public Administration, I think it still has them with regard to employees on RTV, but that is what we are still getting at. Well, some things have been fixed and we can say they're fine. For example, terms from 7 to 5 years. Not a thing, either. There is still a diction, which has been repeatedly mentioned in the debate, that is to say that the President of the Republic will propose a representative, i.e. on a proposal from religious communities and on a proposal from minorities, to propose one at a time. I don't know if this is exactly the work of the President of the Republic, but I don't know where he's going to find the time when he's dealing with the arbitration agreement and who our arbitrator is going to be and so on, but he probably was involved in the preparations, too, and he suggested that we trust him. I don't think that's good and that's not the president's job - we know what the president is doing. I don't know whether we're in or out of line with any of the matters that we have in the constitution, as far as the President of the Republic is concerned. That the law ran into a large "no" many – from unions to many already listed organizations, institutions and so on. Maybe we wouldn't even repeat that, but what most people have already said -- so we're applying some new form, some new legal person we don't even know, we don't even know what solutions are going to be. Not only do we not know her, but even other countries don't know her. We were often innovative, but I don't know if it's right here. Because, legislation or solutions are from different laws, we will do something by institutions, some companies, some by other legislation to regulate and probably if there are so many different acts and different things that are supposed to regulate the single matter, we will definitely run into a lot of contradictions, somewhere things will be excluded and so on. Of course, as a result, there is always funding, then how to control what that public part is, what is the market part. We know that we are not too successful with the institutions that we have, to control certain things, there will be much greater confusion here and it will be even more difficult to control. The problem for me is also the third programme you propose to go to Parliament's television programme under the National Assembly. Article 56 says, "The National Assembly may be able to provide information", it is said that it may not. And we've already had such laws where it was written that schools can organize meals, but they're not, because if something "may" and it doesn't "must", it's not usually done. And it's probably gonna happen here. Things like "may" in marriage are certainly very problematic, because then things can be, but they can't be. And I don't think that's legal. And then also those employees who will regulate this parliamentary channel or programme – what will they do: employees in the National Assembly, will they be public servants or what will they be? It probably doesn't make sense to write something like that without knowing how it's actually going to work. Now, it has been mentioned how badly good it will be if we have a smaller programming world or a world. Several experts say that if there is, this should be a place to debate and it should be people who represent different interests and should also represent them. It is said that the law states that "members of the world must carry out their work independently and impartially and that they must care solely for the interests of RTV Slovenia". Hello, aren't they civil society and the interest of the people and the public? No, they'll make sure that RTV's interest is intact. I mean, it's in conflict with every logic, because they're also there because they're members of some of the interest groups they're going to propose, and it's normal for them to represent their interests. In addition to the fact that we are all, even the Minister, that the process of election is a proposal and will last and last before we can get something together, we should probably ask ourselves whether this is the right way and things to do otherwise. Probably a repeat vote can mean any abuse, but let's just say it doesn't happen with us. It's similar with the administration. Now we're going to move on to the five-member board. The minister said that there is also a fog in the programming world, and no one is responsible. Yeah, if there's gonna be 3-5 of them, there's gonna be more fog, and even less we'll know who's responsible for what and who's got to do what. It is also a matter of officials or executives who are usually not poorly paid. Best thing we can do is make 10, and we'll have some of them back between the best-paid ones. Regardless of what is now happening in the media in connection with emoluments, even if we had 10 members of the RTV administration, we probably wouldn't get the kind of retirement that Kramar got, so we don't have to worry that there will be a problem. I think we're overreacting with five members right now. I don't know what the three-member administration can say at this point either; and we would expect that if they made such a change. Then, in Article 36, we have quite a few things; that the public service activity will be financed from the state budget. What does that mean? Is RTV gonna sign up for the invitations or what's it gonna look like? Since anyone who benefits from State resources usually has to apply for the invitation to tender, report and so on or set certain criteria and criteria for how anyone can receive such funds. That's probably how we should say something else. Now, some of you have already said that the Council of Workers is proposing that the media law should be passed first, and we also have in the process a law on the film centre that will regulate some things differently. Since all of this has taken place, of course, some of the things we will arrange in this law will be arranged differently and so forth. Some were worried, or you said you were surprised at the press. We're always surprised, we're used to it, we don't have a problem with it. But you're obviously surprised because they don't agree with the solution you brought. The union said that they had negotiated for five years, negotiated at the level of the institution, concluded them by signing the annexes to collective agreements, thus starting to use a comprehensive system, a transparent payment system such as RTV had not yet had. Now you have written to them in Article 57, "amendments to the employment contracts with representative RTV Slovenia trade unions have a social dialogue". So we're going to talk again for five years about what they're going to pay and how they're going to get paid. We probably all have so much time or everyone has so much time to do that. If we just put one thing in place, I always say that we have to get rid of things that aren't good or that could be better, but not turn things upside down and start all over again. An illogical relationship between the world and the control council is illogical. In fact, the Council appoints the Director-General, but it can be resolved by the Supervisory Board. This is quite illogical, because perhaps if those who will be in the world are not in the best relationship with the Supervisory Board, this can happen the day after someone calls the Director when the Council appoints the Director, the second day the Supervisory Board can resolve it. This is probably not right, and even usually the one who names someone also relieves him. I don't know why there's such a solution here. Maybe because you already have the names of the supervisors and everything. But in this way these things don't work and at least they show some illogicality that we might be able to explain more. Once again, what status the press will have. You say they won't be public workers anymore, they'll be public workers, they'll obviously find that it's okay. State service is the best job we've ever listened to. Perhaps we will have to sit down and talk if we are to reach a solution that is acceptable to most people. I hope to receive an answer to some of my questions or a comment. I would also expect you to tell me what is the problem with the 29-member world and where this 15-member world is going to be better. The secretary said it would be more of a responsibility. You don't usually get responsibilities with numbers, but it's important that there are people who are responsible there, and that the legislation is so written that it can't be done from the left and from the right to overtake and transport and do things your way. Of course, I will not vote in favour of such a bill, but we are likely to amend matters and propose changes, although perhaps the key things cannot be changed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u156	Nice greeting to all in attendance! I'll make it simple. I will explain why I believe that the RTV proposal is not suitable for further consideration. It's about differences in the base. Not for what else can be fixed and what can't be fixed. Maybe that's why I'm going to have to be critical of the coalition. I must say, there have been no pressure on me so far. They were familiar with my position. However, I am also aware that I am an alternate Member here in Parliament and that I may be gone someday. However, I cannot help but point out my point of view, this is such an important matter. Why is it so important? This law will be an extremely important conceptual, sample case, which is also the case for the status of all other laws. It didn't come from here, Mrs. Shirca, in this matter around RTV, it was created in university circles, where they got the idea of autonomous institutions. And I'm going to argue about that today, and I'm going to explain what I'm dealing with. He happens to be here now, after we stopped the law on health care, which he also wanted to enforce in a similar form – the principle of autonomous institutions. The so-called modernisation of public institutions goes in the direction of hybrid models, where public and market activities cross, that is a profitable or commercial activity. In order not to get the wrong idea again, I do not mind that RTV issues CDs, but that some good transmission markets and sells it to another TV network, another channel – why not, and that even part of the archive material should not, market and obtain some funds for it. But I'm against it, and I'm going to say it with determination, against the rewards of those performers who are already getting salaries anyway. And that's why we're introducing autonomy, so-called autonomy. Instead of a roof law on public institutions - look, Mrs Shirca, I'm going to say this, I'm going to argue with you now, you've been doing a doctorate in this field, and I've studied philosophy and then social work. You have more knowledge, more knowledge of this area. But I'm also a politician, and I know a little bit about what's going on with these things. I don't object, I don't underestimate this work and the effort you've made at the Ministry. Much work has been done and the law has made many improvements. However, I am a staunch opponent in the autonomy of public institutions and will defend the status of public institutions, such as has been, with certain modernisations, changes that are necessary. First, we'd need a roof law. But the blood law will obviously come later, and it will probably represent a synthesis of the practices - "good" I missed because the claims are not visible - so, "good" practices, for example, which will already be legalised. That's what you say, just the synthesis of what we're doing through this marriage. First, the controversial reform of the commercialisation and privatisation of public institutions, unfortunately under the flag of the left, tried to enforce the Health Act through Miklavčič and now, as the process was suspended there, through the law on RTV. A long-term project to modernise public institutions, which I hope will not, but will probably, today, take place in this area, will sneak into the fields of education, science, education, culture tomorrow. RTV must remain a public institution; yes, public, enhanced supervision of the founder in the substantive areas and greater impact of users. We can only talk about autonomy in relation to professional autonomy. What makes this new public office autonomous? Since the founder's supervision, perhaps the autonomous of the criticism of users, of those who pay this subscription? So what's the autonomy from? The proposed status transformation into a financial autonomous commercial company, which citizens would be obliged to finance and the company authorities would not be allowed to pay their income by market activity. We therefore reject the regime that transforms the public institution into a sui generis, a commercial economic society. I am critical of the model of financial autonomy of administrations, which we distance from the influence of the founder, especially from the influence of users, viewers, the public. With autonomy, the management of the institution will further increase the possibility of free, autonomous business, of having access to social resources. Non-transparent business will also be possible, as we know it everywhere where public and market activity is mixed in the modern concept of private and public partnership. But we know where it leads. The public and the market will become increasingly intertwined. Acquisitions in the form of prizes poured into private pockets — a fear that will not happen, you say. And I say it will be. It will be implemented in public by means of public equipment, with public funds from the subscription. Thus, the prizes are controversial for operators who have already been paid for their work, but I do not object to the fact that certain services and products are paid and that the funds obtained improve the financial position of the institution. I also do not oppose stimulation for good work in all segments, in particular in the implementation of public activities. However, I oppose the payment of prizes that would be made from the level of profits of market activities. The influence of politics remains — why? In fact, it may have been the only law restricting the influence of politics before that, otherwise it is also there through civil society what I think. [[...]] It's about the appointment of members of the Council. At the time of the adoption of the current law, some have criticised the regime whereby all candidates, regardless of which environment they chose, went through the confirmation of the parliamentary majority. I was even a little confused when they told me that it was in all the regulations that we've had so far, it's not true. Let us take a preliminary look at this current one, and we will see that the proposed entities, many of them, have independently proposed their representatives. The proposers should have an autonomous right — but there is no autonomy here, obviously — to appoint their representatives to the world of the institution. In the debate on the number of members and who can propose them all, the way of final validation remains ignored. That's what this is about. Who finally confirms them? This is an instrument of policy. All candidates, including after this proposal, are finally going through a political filter, which was not typical of the previous system. Therefore, the instrument of political influence remains in this regime as well. Employee status. The derogation from the public service status in the so-called so-called so-called sui generis regime also raises questions about the status of employees. They're insecure. They don't know what's gonna happen. Although promises are very beautiful, we forget that we have a labour law. That's what we should be referring to. Even now, everything would be fine if we respected the working relationship if the labour inspector also visited this institution a little more often. I'll give you an example, first he came to the office with a student principal, then two years with a fixed-term contract. There was a contract on the floor. After that was too long, they were thinking if there were any other coeds where they could find a student's license. And that's how a lot of people get longer. We do not need any new status, but we need respect for labour law, and we need it now. I am in favour of maintaining the public office in all its functions and responsibilities. In principle, the law also tells what it must be, including this version of the law, what it must preserve, its mission. Multiculturalism – a very important issue for minorities, very important and for all national communities that are. Expansion of the spirit, of the horizons — that's all we've heard. These are declaratory things, but with the autonomy of certain centres of power, I doubt that this mission will actually be preserved. It will increasingly focus on commercial market activity.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word. Excuse me, President. The secretary wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u158	He always wants a word in front of me.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u159	Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u160	I wouldn't take the floor, but I don't think it's right for your colleague, Mrs. Juliani, to have such hard words in the air, or, as if I were talking about one marriage and you were talking about another marriage. I think you need Members and Members to be responsible and we need to read those and defend the laws or oppose them on the table and read them. That is why, honourable Member and Member Julian, you are speaking somehow past the point when you are talking about the lack of a defined public interest and that there is any danger of commercialisation. It is not necessary to simplify and see in commercialisation what is necessary work, or the institution or the company, but certainly public RTV Slovenia. It has activities that need to be stimulated and that are market activities, borrowing material, for example, handing over an orchestra in certain parts, and in particular economicpropagandous advertising that we have maintained, because it is an important source of RTV income to the house and in some ways also providing certain, whatever we are looking at, autonomy, because if there is no such revenue, the revenue from the budget should be increased. Because it would be hard to believe that we could burden others with a contribution and an increase in the contribution, who are accompanied by RTV Slovenia and have an apparatus. This is why the Labour Relations Act, of course, applies to everyone who is in a working relationship. So, we're going through. Autonomy. For the first time, we are five members of the 15-endorsed National Assembly in a very transparent, responsible and very verifiable way. There's something else I have to say. That these fears of commercialisation must not discourage the development of the sector. If RTV Slovenia – and shoots a lot of good documentary films, makes them just to play on its programme and does not try to pass them on to anyone else, sells them, places them anywhere else, places them in the game for prizes or whatever, works for them, in some way, you will probably agree with me, it is not commercialisation, but it is the effort to put a sure good program. And because you've been so concerned with the fear of commercialisation, if there is anything, or we're going to have to repeat ten times today a principle that has not yet been established and that is the highest possible guarantee that something that is respected is respected. He's not a labour inspector who walks here, and he's not our inspector who gives a fine if he doesn't respect the quotas themselves. I'm telling you again. If the public interest in providing audiovisual content to independent producers of their own production and so on, which is linked to culture, Mr Magajna, then the administration must go. Let's go! It's over! This is the biggest point in defending public interest. So please: not only am I talking about one that you are reading something else. I think you can also say that you are pleased that when we first proposed reading the draft within the public presentation of opinions, there were few who supported me, your proposal and your colleagues' proposal for extraparliamentary parties to turn advertising or participation in the electoral campaign into a pre-election campaign in favour of non-parliamentary parties with the possibility of two-thirds landing on RTV Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u161	A replica of Andrej Magajn.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u162	Thank you very much. We talk a little bit through each other. As soon as we met the other day, you gave me a list of what makes sense even in some way to market, and I would also count a few things. Why don't we hand over a good documentary to others? We do talk through each other. But if I objected today, someone who works there will still be paying rewards for it. The prizes are controversial. Here's the root of the problem. That's what I was talking about. The prizes are controversial, not that it will be part of the archive material, or that some of the transmissions made by RTV Slovenia will also be marketed on other televisions. Why not? I don't mind, we're clear. I don't have to tell you what's good. The prizes of regular employees are controversial. However, I will tell you an example from health care when Mr Marusič, before he came to the institution where he was also working and they were marketing some equipment there, but it was not known whether they were marketing it at their regular time or they were marketing it in the afternoon, nothing was known, everything was wiped out, and the pay was paid for because of that apparatus. But when he told them to come in on Saturday to work overtime on this apparatus, and they weren't there, there was no interest. I hope we understand each other now.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u163	Mrs. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u164	Thank you very much. He explained in part what was meant by non-profit. Unprofitableness doesn't mean you can't do anything else or even do it for free. That's not what this is about. The point is that the motive to change the institution's objectives of a profitable motive is to change the institution's objectives; and this is happening to us, and in fact to those who have been preparing the law, I believe that you have worked very hard, but you could still ask yourself why the BBC is an unprofitable organisation. Why the URF is a non-profit organisation. So what's actually the reason why they don't allow public interest to be eliminated is because the motivation for profitability would be introduced into this organisation and another activity would begin. This is said to be necessary – so when a law is being drafted, it is necessary to examine precisely what is the reason for somewhere else, elsewhere where they want to protect the public interest, to use other forms and not to go so recklessly or without having any basis, some new forms such as this form, which are practically unknown to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Majda Shirtz. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u166	Such thinking may be dangerously anchored in public opinion and should therefore be corrected. Indeed, Mrs Juliana, first of all, persons of public law, a self-employed person of a non-profit nature is called the future RTV Slovenia, as defined by this law. So they're non-profit organisations now. 3/4 of the RTV contribution is funded. A piece of economic propaganda and others, of course, also revenue. In fact, this is a non-profit activity, nothing different – of course in different forms and frameworks than the BBC, but the BBC also has so-called ugly gainful activity. This is the largest publishing house in England by publishing content that these ugly gainful activities do. I mean, all their services, World Services, etc. Neither does the ORF in the framework of activities carried out as a public service nor is it intended to generate profits. And also RTV Slovenia already today and tomorrow, of course it can't be. It is true, however, that there is also a complete misunderstanding, which is being communicated in some way to the ether, around these profits, which will now be earned by employees at the expense of the surplus of expenditure in the future. And to clarify once and for all this question of how these profits are. All that, for example, by selling a very successful film, if we, Mr Magajna, took this for instance, large withdrawals, and that certain contributions would accumulate and increase income. With such a surplus of revenue over expenditure, it is necessary to invest in public activity and public service first. When it's clean, settled, no losses, nothing, only then can employees share 10% of the profits. And only in doing so can the Governing Board or the Supervisory Board share that portion of the profits. I believe these numbers are ridiculously low if they were converted into values that were in 2009.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs. Juliana, this would have been my replica of the replica, to the explanation given. You still want a word? It's a replica of the replica. Please accept that you no longer have a word. Dr. Pavel Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u168	Thank you very much. The Minister, my client colleague, I must say, also my friend, has mentioned me somehow without need in her first performance, and now I almost have to come by, although I was going to avoid, twist and today's debate "sorry" even though I have been reported. Since I have no choice but to say a few words, I will talk about the subject itself, mostly the subject itself, and that is, the parliamentary programme. The third paragraph of Article 3 shows what RTV provides for the public service, and there is no parliamentary programme here. Everything's nice and okay, why not? Video and digitalised audiosignal at the exit of this house, anyone who comes through, any commercial or public service can pick up this signal and broadcast it in accordance with the rules that are, in their networks and lead it to users, to television screens or anywhere else. That's possible, a solution like this is possible, even though I'm not defending it. However, this is justified by the Minister's new services. As she mentioned, I know about these new services. I'm not going to teach you. I'm going to teach you. New services are based on new digital technologies of manufacturing, editing, so broadcasting and receiving not only television, but on a whole range of appliances, patterns, which we wear on our pockets, phones, iPods and all kinds of things. In short, what's new here is a digital broadcast that releases frequencies and allows us to only within one pool, one frequency so to speak today broadcast all the current and all future imaginary programs if we take the matter seriously. That's what used to be a limited good. It's not today. That's certainly always possible. But what is the problem is not a new service or an old service, but a simple question, new or old services – whether the parliamentary programme is a public service, a public service or not. Is what this house says, accepts, something that is in the public interest and is right to go to the public service. Bunny broadcasts, dolls are of public interest – I sign. All these things, say, round tables, are of public interest – I also sign. Isn't that a public interest? If it's not a public interest, we're going to decide here after all, we're just going to say whether or not it's going to be such a program. Whether he's as good as he is or not is another question. Therefore, this is not related to new services, but rather to the definition of what public service is in this house. It broadcasts Health – it is, and the transposition of meetings of the national Parliament is not in the third programme. Now, well, probably 80% of people would agree and rather watch the show on Health than the show from Parliament. Okay, but that's not the only criteria for determining public interest. We'll talk about it. If we accept this, after all, everyone can pick up a video-audiosignal at the door of this house, I ask the Minister what for God's sake is doing in this Article 56, "The National Assembly may allow, inform the public about its work through a special television program that operates within the National Assembly and is intended for the direct transmission of meetings of the National Assembly". Even this tells us that we need to ensure access to the content of at least 90% of the population and that RTV Slovenia provides us with broad-based technical possibilities for the transfer of that programme. Why RTV Slovenia? There will be some commercial provider within this pool, who will, for now, be only one, be better. Then why would they take it on RTV? In short, if you say that the parliamentary programme is not a public programme – well, let's say you say so – it is not a problem. What do you want to do with Article 56? What are we going to do in here? So we can do our own program?Oh, my God! We can do what we want, and we will. This article has to go out, Minister! As soon as possible! This article has nothing to do! We can talk about whether we will work or whether the parliamentary programme will be a part of a public service, or a bit different – a legitimate issue, including with new services and these options, which are and can be welcomed, and this article needs to go out. I will now tell you, very simply, lovingly say this: now in the first reading I will "put the law through", I will vote in favour or at least abstain, depending on tomorrow's will, but above all I say that I will not vote for the law if this article survives another or third reading in any way. Now I'm going to say this publicly and openly and out loud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u170	Mr Vice-President, Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, a nice greeting on my behalf as well. Much has already been said today, but let me start by saying that the topic that we are dealing with today is certainly one of those that we are all talking about somehow, because we are public television viewers and we have an opinion on this. What I must commend is a rather broad and democratic public debate, which took place both in the professional public, civil society and in this Parliament, and therefore the original text of the law that we have received is strongly corrected and takes into account these different interests to a greater extent. In short, I think it is very important to stress this democratic process in which the law was formed or is still emerging. Another thing that seems really important to me. Let's be formalists and go and look at the individual articles. Indeed, when we look at the structure of individual components of the management of this public institution, starting with the world, the figures clearly show that the autonomy of the public institution is increasing. And that, above all, the role of users in the world is increasing, this is called civil society. In particular, I would like to welcome the fact that you have not overlooked the role of NGOs, that there are 22 000 companies in Slovenia and that you have given two representative organisations the opportunity to run for their members. I think this is a precedent, this probably happened for the first time in this Slovenian space, despite the fact that everyone in civil society recognises such a great and important role. Secondly, the number of employees representing their colleagues and colleagues in the world is increasing to 20%. I think that's very important, too. Not to mention other elements of civil society that are represented in this world. Similarly, it seems important to me that in the supervisory world the role that belongs to the appointment of those on the part of the National Assembly is smaller and, in fact, the Government appoints only one representative. So much for autonomy. Of course, autonomy is always the result of a real relationship that will, of course, be established in the management and decision-making process itself. The third thing I would like to say a little bit more about, of course, from a slightly broader perspective. The fact is that Slovenia adopted the Law on Institutions in 1992. From the very mouth of the drafters of this law, I have heard that everyone thought that this law would represent some kind of short-term transitional phase in the functioning of public institutions, because it has largely restricted autonomy to organisations of special social importance, as we have called them before; that is to say what was done in the field of social activities. Autonomy of their management, supported in their assets and so on. In short, they thought it was something temporary. After 18 years, this framework already appears to be anachronism. And what Slovenia needs is one comprehensive debate on what is actually a new development model for the management of public institutions; or even within public institutions there is not just one group, there is a group that will continue to be largely financed by public funds, and a group that can also acquire funds in the market for activities, of course, in a non-profit way. I think this law has made a bold step in considering how to handle these things. I myself belong to that group of people, especially because the Slovenians are inclined to deliberate, that we need a debate on the preparation of a single roof law to discuss these things and discuss what development guidelines should be in the field of current public institutions. Well, let's just say I know something about it, given that I also teach management in non-profit organizations. I also welcome this clear separation of the functions of individual management bodies, and also the fact that in some way it is possible for people who are employed in the current public office to gain greater autonomy. This means leaving the public service system. I read very carefully what the unions wrote. So, only about half the employees said yes. That's not necessarily a representative half, that's what we have to say first. But most of all, I was struck by the fact that they had not been assured by Article 57 of the Bill, which, by the way, ensures the preservation of all acquired rights to conclude new Annexes, but they do not trust the quality of social dialogue between employees and administration. Catastrophe! They say they don't believe in their own power. I agree that Virant's law allowed RTV to make the system much more transparent, regulated it and so on. We have now reached this stage, but surely it will not go into a major deterioration of this, but I also expect you to be in the upgrade. There's one more thing I'd like to suggest. Therefore, the third paragraph of Article 5 states how public interest is protected. It may be possible to consider whether this quantitative element is an option, in the event that it does not reach this quantitative criterion, it is sufficient or would consider any additional safeguard of public interest. And the next thing we're talking about is this famous Article 46, maybe in an explanation, in a further discussion, come with numbers to demystify these fabulous sums that will flow into the pockets of administrations and so on, although it makes it very clear in this article that first the employees of those who have some of it, then the administration and only last the supervisors. In short, it is for the benefit of the employees, so that they can also be stimulated, let us say clearly and loudly, if we are making more income, why not part of it would not be the result, it would not also be reflected in our monthly income. And that doesn't seem like a whole lot to me. But the fact is, when you read this article, you might get some idea of some fabulous sums that will be shared and what will happen to them. It also seems very important to me that there is a very clear separate balance of revenue generated from the public service and revenue generated by commercial activity. And the first thing to do is to cover everything that goes on in public activity, only then can we talk about a different division. In short, it seems to me that this reflection, in which direction this public institution should go, is sui generis and so on and so on and God help, is so named, I think we need a serious, professional dialogue on what individual status forms are called, because otherwise it will actually be that many other activities will be removed from the context and are looking for their solutions. I think we just need this dialogue in this room. At the end of the third programme. I would say that the third programme developed in Slovenia in a very specific way, quite differently than in those countries that you described in the very explanation of the law. If it has evolved differently, and if it has somehow been caught up in some way, then perhaps thinking about what to do with it, not only was it a thing, I will say, us Members, but perhaps we will also do some analysis, an survey or whatever else among the interested public, and they will also say what they think about this third programme. Of course, it is typical of us Members, but we also like to look at and see how our debates reflect. However, if we have already set our specific path in implementing the third programme, let us check whether this specific path is good, how much support it has, and then let us think about innovative solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u171	Thank you. Madam Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u172	Thank you very much for the interesting thinking, especially when she read between the lines of the reservations of the journalists themselves and the lack of confidence in her own strength in negotiating with the leaders if it were a new collective agreement. Otherwise, as far as the third parliamentary programme is concerned, this position, which has been obtained, is not to say that these are ratings and ratings, because they are not sufficiently relevant data, but not only analyses interpreting other practices, particularly across Europe, but also the views of all our advisers have gone in a different direction. These are not my views, but they have gone in a different direction, where OK – this can be mediated, okay, if it is transmitted to users and users, but in a different way than it is now; with the different costs it bears, I will say, the creator of the program, in this case the National Assembly, and through the carriers which modern technology can distribute in different ways. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u173	Thank you. There is no word from Lady Cvete Zalokar Orazem. [[...]] There's no fish. She didn't get it. There's no trophenics. There's no streamer. Mr. Zorn, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I have three comments. The first is when you talked about the fear that somehow we are not ready for a new sui generis facility, one that would be a public institution and at the same time an economic society. I must say that it is not a matter of fear or courage, that such institutions are not in Slovenian legislation and that you will not simply "intrude them" if I say directly, but will have to change into a bunch of laws so that this new economic organisation, this hybrid sui generis can function. Because it's going to have to change everything, so to speak. We do not know by what principle and by what law he will be able to collect a subscription: either as a public institution or as an economic society. As an economic company, it is bound to profit, otherwise it is a charity. So she's gonna have to do something for profit. So, are we going to give all our orders to a company that's making profits? Do we have any of these? Do we get a share of this profit? Are we investing in this society? In short, this is your television, which is, of course, a hybrid office of sui generis and an economic society, and it is, so to speak, if I am direct, "the beech iron", you will have to put into such legislation that we do not have. And that's a huge problem. Second thing. You went to my colleague who said six people could work or six people didn't have to do a 15-minute show. I have to tell you that I come from a movie where 30 people can do a five-second show if they make money with it – that's usually advertising; and that's not what this is about. But the union – which you flattered them and now they are gone – is going to protect all those six who wear cables, and one shoots. I have to tell you that you have to tell the unions that you will put everything on your head with this public institution, which is an economic society. All contracts will have to be amended. Everything! 'Cause, you know, social security, health insurance, pay, change in lunch, change in vacation, change in job stamping, my dear, if it's an economic company. I've been there. I have experienced a change in the cultural institution into a share society, and I know what that means. All contracts and all working conditions will be amended and placed on the head. Tell that to the union. Tell them! And education will also be checked again, for criteria will be set for who will be called for anything. That's how it is. And the things that have been won will be true or not. All of this has been discussed by my colleagues in social democracy, even more sharply than I do, so I must tell you that these sector contracts have a lower limit and a ceiling. We also know this from our direct personal practice. For first they offer you a branch contract, one which has the lowest wage below, but which is much higher. Two years from now, you're all on the lowest salary because it's still legal. It's a branch contract and it's an economic company and you'll come to that. For the end, maybe a few more words. You have also spent a lot of words on the previous President of the Council and on the current Director-General or former and current Director-General. I don't understand why marriage matters so much. I don't understand you or I understand you, it's about getting rid of them or getting removed by the Director-General. I'm not going to fall in to defend his 50 salary, because that seems terrible to me. But I have to tell you, you're very unwaited. He's got two and a half months to get his term out and then he doesn't get any discharges. Why are you trying to stop him in every way for two and a half months? Why? But the man was making a profit. In the past four years, he has made profits from an organization that has lost millions each year. And one more thing. Does he throw people on the road? Isn't he admirable in the program? What's he doing wrong, please? Why do you want to get rid of him? The black - eyed predictors say that business is already divided and that he must leave because people are impatient. Maybe, I don't think so! However, it is you who are to blame for the 50 wages he is to receive, for this is a punishment if you forgive him prematurely and for false reasons. Today, someone compared the court that brought him back to life and the world that solved him. That's not a comparison. In the state of law, the court is the one to decide. That's why I have to say it's an ugly campaign and leave it where it doesn't, and it won't cost you anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you. Would you like a word, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u176	To take further school knowledge, in this case a thorough reading of the bill. RTV Slovenia is an independent legal person of public law of special cultural and national importance. It's not an economic company. Once again, Mr Zorn: RTV Slovenia is a single person, legal personal public law, of particular national and cultural importance, and is not an economic society; it is not only – or whatever – that is. Don't be afraid! You don't have to scare anyone because we're adults. Don't worry about how people are gonna get on the road right now, please. Go to the end of the law, get to the 57th article, which we have aligned with the unions, and let us read what it says. Nothing on the road, nothing on the new learning, nothing on the new exam to do, nothing new on the notes to watch. However, the payment of the unlimited premiums of the voluntary additional pension and insurance of all employees in RTV Slovenia continues continuously – for the first time. This is a provision that discusses what happens on the way to new talks and definitions of the relationship between employees and management on the way to a new collective agreement. No infringement, no road, no reduced wages, and no knowledge checks; except for what needs to be done, what the Government imposes on us all the time, and we need to report on what was: either deviation, or just any problems, or mistakes, or whatever else, within the review of wages under the so-called Virant Act. And further, this 27th article, which is really just before the end, but come to it or start reading from here back, and when this law is in force, employees of RTV Slovenia will remain in jobs where they were on the day of the entry into force of this law and their employment contracts will remain in force. On the amendments to employment contracts, the management of representative unions – so the unions themselves delayed to write and have the right – RTV Slovenia conducts social dialogue. So it's not right that it's scary now 2 thousand people and everyone else, as if tomorrow there's gonna be a eclipse on the screen if this law is adopted, because there's so much fear of how and what and where they're going to pay. And yet, Mr Zorn, Director-General Anton Guzei is not the Director-General, but he is the Acting Officer; his mandate has long expired, he wants to continue, he's elected, he has, he'll probably require a little more, he'll be able to do a little more if he wants to. I don't know what's so sweet, so sweet about this Good, really, high pay grade is a lot, I mean, you can come at it even if you say you don't know RTV Slovenia, etc. - By that law and by those rules. [[...]] But he embraces you, and it is also in these situations, as it is, given that, despite his term of office, he is still the director; but we are still renewing knowledge: an economic society is not. Where there are strangers, the law on institutions applies, there is a reference, it travels all the way to the law on institutions. And thirdly, staff members will remain in danger until they reach a new collective agreement or a new agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u177	Thank you. You wanted a replica, Mr. Zorn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Let's start at the end. Madam Minister, you're too busy with the Director-General, the Director-General. We're dealing with the law today. I mentioned it because you talked about him twice for ten minutes. This is nonsense and unnecessary, and we're here to do something else. You too, Madam Minister, could not deal directly with specific matters in RTV Slovenia. That's the first time. The second thing, about such a form of economic society, which is not, but to such a public institution, which is not the first in Slovenia, is able to "impose" anything. But it's not, so you can say anything, and all I'm telling you is that it's composed of an economic society and at the same time a public institution, and you can call it six different ways. Third time, you and the unions worked together. Yeah, we have protest letters from all the unions. How did you cooperate? We got them today and yesterday. You didn't cooperate, and you don't agree. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u179	Thank you. The word has magic. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, you have no more time with your colleagues to answer, so I will try to discuss this so that I will not challenge your desire after the completion or after the replication of my debate. By nature, I am a great optimist, and I believe that it is possible to negotiate a number of agreements and that politicians should be building on the agreement anyway. But on this particular proposal of the law, I'm a little distracted about the success of the agreement, and I'm going to try to tell you why. As with the adoption of the previous law, I have not been able to understand what you are working in a public institution of special cultural and national importance on how a public service or public service can be successfully implemented, I am afraid that I will also now lose this part of the interlocutors. However, the part of the answers that I am receiving is mainly about the question of the status of the institution or of that entity of particular cultural and national importance and the status of the staff. And where did I get my hindrance? See, when we discussed a text on 17 March that had the status of draft bill and that some things were indeed written in that text, a lot of things have been cleared up to this proposal, a lot of changes have been made and we have received clear formulations, including those about which the Minister has repeatedly spoken about what the definition means, what this definition and the establishment in the law of the visa article and the positions of Dr. Rada Bohinca in the legal practice and the concerns of some who still insist on it as if the solution in the law would be established as an RTV economic society. It's not like that. And now what was said at the time. Here I have a magnetogram and I have sought Mr Jožet Skok's discussion, because I also found his signature on one of these mails, and there was a talk that we should take a survey among the employees because the views are so different. How, then, can we agree and find a solution if the workers do not speak with a single voice, then how can such a solution be translated or converted into marriage? And now that I have read this letter, which we have received from the Coordination of RTV Slovenia Press Unions, it is said that 51% responded in that small print, not in bold numbers, or in reinforced numbers. This is a relatively good percentage of responses for the survey, but if this is a representative sample, if the results are difficult and so on. But what stabbed me more was that the poll was done between June 8th and June 10th. So something that had already been foretold in March, that should have happened and that we should actually ask the survey, happened in the immediate vicinity of the consideration of the law in the National Assembly. I'm not going to comment on the results because some have already touched them. The results or answers are scattered. The situation from 17 March to 10 June has not changed; there is no single response. I'm so sorry. He's not here. How, then, to find such a solution that everyone will sign and say, is coordinated between the social partners and the ministry. You know, I would very much like to attach to all those who now want to say that the situation on RTV between employees in terms of salary relations and the status of employees is satisfactory, that I do not say well. If it were not for the initiative of one of the unions on this committee, and our Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth was some kind of mediator in resolving the dispute between the contractual journalists, between the management of the institution and the ministry, so that we could resolve those issues that started with respect to contracts and relations already in court. At the time, I listened to the unions because they said that the court could not carry out the public service of human resources policy. So, there were times when things needed to be discussed. Finally, every year we discussed the report of the Supervisory Board, not to mention how the views were adjusted, what could be heard at the time, and, last but not least, one of the editors of the art programme said that funds for cultural programmes were falling. I understand, however, that this bill requires the management to respect the shares of individual content in the public interest, among which I, of course, prefer to look at culture. If so, then I am surprised that we do not find a common language in cleaning the text at points where some might still want to see additional protection. But now it's about the program and the content. Yes, Mr Jerovšek withdrew from my presentation of the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats the part that I said that the Programme Council would become a redesigner of the programme. He's got to be some kind of software designer. If I recall correctly, the Vice-President or Vice-President of the current Council of Experts resigned because the Section Council is under-exploited in the programme. I will not now be searching for what I could say about the sessions of the programming world, many of which are written. But things are not so that you can say that viewers and viewers, headphones and listeners see and identify with the program that national RTV gives them. What is more, it is understandable that we, as politicians, are mostly thinking about an information programme. The public service must ensure that the national institution is a fundamental media provider of information in the information programme, and if this is to date and to the extent and quality achieved, then this information content in the third parliamentary channel would not be necessary, because it should be in the first and second programmes, which, according to the ratings, pardon the coverage of the territory with the signal, provide this possibility. But if you go to see what you're asked in a survey with a representative sample you actually want and what content you miss, it's very interesting, not missing informative content, but everything else: science, culture and other content, some also miss sports. We should ask ourselves, including employees, forgive RTV, why the ratings of these information content are falling. That's what we've already told you about these things. The third parliamentary channel itself would touch itself in one place. Just before I touch that, let me say that in this public presentation of opinions, it also seemed interesting to me that he was a representative of another union, I think that the broadcasters, by the way, suggested that "if we don't agree, there will be a referendum". That's it, by the way. Good, because we can also talk about things this way, but I think that first of all, and especially the employees, we should make sure that we follow the fundamental objective: the quality of the public service. Well, and I wanted to mention another position on the third parliamentary channel that I fully agree with, but he said it, and I think that Mr. Miran Lesjak, who has somehow set up the situation: the public presentation of the opinion is transmitted by the third parliamentary channel, but that I am performing on the third parliamentary channel today does not mean that I am performing in the media. By the way, what's typical of the media? The media provides editorially designed content, so thank you, Mr Zorn, for seeing me as a speaker on the third parliamentary channel, as I see the third parliamentary channel, the speaker is not needed, and the director is not needed, because I attach to those who believe that the role of getting the viewer/view viewer is the most comprehensive information, direct transmission without editorial intervention. Because now that I am looking at one of these contributions on the third parliamentary channel, these are the cuts that attract someone watching this. Now, is this really related to such content that whoever sees it can really create it objectively? [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The idea of what was happening on the committee is another story. [[...]] Of course, I will support this marriage in the first reading. I expect we'll say something else and it will. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u181	Thank you. Even Madam Minister, she's only a few seconds away. If you want a word, you're at the end of the list.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u182	I think that, after today's and the views you've given from different perspectives, there is a need to remove any doubts, what is not the most accurate reading, what is the explanation that is yet to be given, and perhaps any correction in the sense that we should also have a more built-up and consistent law, which has good grounds to make it a really good law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u183	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I can see the hands, so I'm opening the application. I'll take you in. Four at five minutes. Here you go. Or, first of all, Mr Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u184	Thank you very much. There's enough time, you can replicate it, and that's why it's next. Basically, I have no problem changing this law. Someone said that some old marriage someone advocates, personally I have no problem, and it is right to change where it is needed. However, let me touch on some of the debates and some claims. I asked the Minister what Mr. Sasha Veronica was doing. There is no answer, for we all know the answer — cooks and thus survives in an article in a magazine. These are the consequences for his participation in the four-month operation of the Bajuk government. And this injustice was done to him by his left, not by his right. Left, you were the one who was putting up the bosses at the time. But this injustice lasts 10 years, Miriam the Male has no injustice because instead of sitting in Studio A in Studio B, there is no problem for me and not "shimphate" the current leadership. Otherwise, you know, in the media in general or on RTV you should also say this, Mr Kontič used to say how terrible he has a problem with RTV, because only the "sympha" government – that is about how it was heard and [[Incomprehensible]] . I had no problem with RTV reporting them when I was Secretary of State in the cabinet of Prime Minister Janša, and I have no problem today. So I was close to the government or government or position – I have no problem with them. By the way, I would like to remind you of Mrs Mance Kosher's opinion of recognized communication. She once said, "The role of the media is to criticize the government, but they must criticize all governments." But they killed Bajukov. Look, that's the problem. So if RTV is critical today, and if it was critical yesterday, that's enough for me, and it's okay for me to do that, you're the only one who has to respect it. But it's true that you haven't been used to it in years, and you have a problem if some journalist says something critical over you, which is a real problem. I am very pleased to see Mrs Mlakareva and Mr Magajne, a little earlier for the move, when I went to Mrs Mlakareva somehow, I should also go to Mr Magajna, but they could be stoned, but it is better not to do it publicly. That's right. I'm sorry. Civil society, I repeat, Mr Kontič, civil society is not what you or anyone else imagine – because you will be able to speak. Of course, if you are no longer a Member tomorrow, say, or say Mr Potrč, when there will be no more Member, become or head of the Red Cross, some cycling society or something I know, maybe you will perform this function with honor, and through this institution you will become a member of the RTV Council, do not tell me that you will be independent. You won't be independent. Even if I were to become this, so that we wouldn't be offended, I wouldn't be addicted, but I'll never run for it, but that's what happens on the left-hand side every day. Article 56, what Mr Gantar was talking about is also very good. Look, Minister, if you're going to bring the third program of RTV out there, and then not anymore, but whoever comes will be able to attach a signal and distribute it, but after Ljubljana, we will never reach my part of Kozjanski. So, the major part of Slovenia will not see this. This program, in my opinion, should remain as it is, but Mrs Majda Potrate may or may not be a speaker, whatever she calls herself. So it's nothing like that and nothing objective. One more word about the next. Look, journalists, I understand that poll in journalism – don't comment if you don't know anything about it. 51% of journalists are representative or not, you wonder. Of course it is! However, if 800 people are a representative sample for elections to the National Assembly, 51% are also representative and I believe those polls and I have no problem with them. Of course, I’m running out of time, so I’m not going to talk about Miranda Lesjak, because I could have missed something before 1990, but I won’t. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u185	Thank you. Mrs. Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Well, if we want to hear it, we hear it. What I had to say at the poll was, is how quickly the poll was prepared from 8 to 10 they had to answer and not everyone answered, but it was a matter of talking to each individual on behalf of everyone and saying something about how it is. Actually, I wanted to touch another question. When we talked about ratings or obedience, it's a very important question of trust for a medium. And I've reviewed the data on confidence in the media in almost the last 10 years, and it's interesting that – not for the last 10 years, actually, since 2004, I've been getting better. Since January 2004, the number has been estimated from 1 to 5 and received an average score of 3.30. And at the time, the media was very high, fifth in 20 after the poll. And then, let's say, in January 2005, just then, the average score went up by four hundred, and then by 2008, it was constantly falling and landed at 3.7 hundred. It began to rise again in 2009, but in January 2010 it is still only 3.13. And if you look at it, newspapers, television, they're between 25 institutions in 14th place. Just how fast trust can be lost. But since you won't believe me, especially the opposition, no, I'd like to quote another report. I have already said that Freedom House is just one of the monitoring positions of journalists growing from the way journalists are persecuted and treated. And the humiliation goes because of judgments or lawsuits against journalists, because of physical harassment or violence against journalists, psychological violence, or something else. And I agree with the Minister that it is likely that this year's report will be even worse because we had this physical account. But I have a report from the U.S. Foreign Ministry in my hands for 2009. In the section Respect for Civil Liberties, which covers freedom of speech and the press, the first paragraph states: "Reports on indirect pressure by the executive authority on the media have been decreasing during the year under consideration." That's what they say they're falling. But then also: "Individuals could either publicly or privately criticize the executive authority without retaliatory measures, but the executive authorities did not try to restrict criticism." So much for who takes the word and forbids what to say. So we would not keep repeating the same stories, even though we need to know what context these stories are torn out of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u188	Thank you very much. First, I would like to express my understanding of the position expressed by my colleague Bojan Kontic regarding the assessment made by the President of the Government. There was a speech that the current Prime Minister did not have any criticism in the public media. And Bojan Kontic said, "if you can say it, then I really don't see things, I can't hear anything, but I can hear something." It's just his assessment, but he didn't talk about how he thinks she's good or bad, but that the current Prime Minister is also criticised in the media. I agree with him. The second thing I would like to say to Mr Gorenak is, unfortunately, that he is not here, regarding non-governmental organisations, civil society. Each of us, except for those who are not so few, who change their political views every 14 days or when power changes. Of course, he carries these views with him and carries them with him as a Member and carries them with him into the civil sphere. But to say that because he has them or because he was once an MP or a member of a party's official, he has not turned around at the right time, he must not be a representative of civil society. I don't agree with that. I think it can be said that he is a representative of civil society, but he also came to this place after the views and opinions he had previously represented when he was not a civil society. And third, what I would like to say is my opinion: with regard to the third programme, I first agree with the President of the National Assembly. Secondly, I would complement his position, Madam Minister, in showing what to do in Article 3, paragraph 3, where the public service of RTV Slovenia is defined. In the current law, there was also a third programme within the public service of RTV Slovenia, a parliamentary programme, which is now gone. If we don’t turn it on, it will really be possible for anyone to see it, but not just public television, and anyone will be able to say that the National Assembly can, but not necessarily, implements a piece of it. That's why I think it's worth thinking about. Next, look, me and my understanding of Article 55, which I have quoted earlier in my debate, do not talk about how they can and must only be direct transfers and that everything else is prohibited. I'm not saying it's good or bad, but it's not illegal. As it reads explicitly, "The National Assembly", let's leave that "may", I hope that it will no longer be, "provides to inform the public of its work through a special television programme that operates within the National Assembly, is intended for the direct transmission of the meetings of the National Assembly and its working bodies" – this is one thing – "and to broadcast the recordings of these meetings when it is not possible to do so directly", another, but still direct, and then "and complete information to the public about all other parliamentary events, including meetings of the State Council, the international activities of Parliament, to devote to the organization of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and its working bodies and other activities related to the exercise of the constitutional powers of the Slovenian Parliament" – that I no longer read. In short, they're not, at least that's how I read, they're just direct meetings, but all the activities of the National Assembly and the State Council. I think it would suggest further reflection in this context, but I agree with all those we say to see if everything is all right. I'm a long way from thinking everything's all right, but let's not be the one to judge what we can be and what we can't be, but keep it on my third channel, and let the journalists design it so that it's as acceptable to people as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u189	Thank you. And Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u190	Thank you. It seems to me that today's debate has been useful, that we have opened up a few different views. In the beginning it was said, colleague Bevk, how good the law is that there are 35 pages of explanations to the 10th or 8th in the former law. That's not positive, if such an expert team can't get this into a ten-page explanation, then it's blurry. So much so that we're clear. If I move on to this parliamentary programme, I too am in favour of maintaining this status and the conditions it has. I don't think there's any need for you to throw this out of this marriage, because he's done some kind of function and he's doing it. But I have to say that lately, before the referendum, I have noticed that the editors were obviously under pressure for one thing, because I agree, as Potter said, we usually disagree that he doesn't need a reporter or a commentator or something. But then I looked at the summaries of that extraordinary session when we had that Croatian statement that came before the referendum to present a unilateral statement together, Slovenians and Croats. At the time, however, there were summaries where the journalist made very sarcastic, tending remarks to the opposition MPs. They were less summed up than coalition and, knowingly, tended, sarcastic comments, "nothing new, already seen" – completely unnecessary and unjustifiable, but it was probably due to machiavelism – someone said the referendum must succeed, see that you try. I am also very pleased that it has been very transparent to show what certain purposes are, the objectives of the background that perhaps coalition Members themselves would not have seen so transparently about this threat to the public institution, I think, public functions and changes to commercial society. This is probably one of the objectives that are behind, and this Sui generis status allows this. I think Mrs Biziakova, as I read, was at the Mutual at the time as the famous manager, Mr Marko Jaklič. I believe that her fear and mine is justified, because the gentleman went to the Public Institute of Lekarna Ljubljana, there Mr Jankovic took it and began to grab money and collect it together immediately. I don't know if there's any idea back there that he's the right manager for RTV, in such a status form. Because he has Jankovic's support, which is usually crucial for this coalition. Apparently, there are also these goals in the back, including running money into the real pockets, as has been said in this hall. And in such a large institution, you do so and so do many things. No director has yet succeeded, but some of them had good intentions. There are "bypasses", channels, here and there, where money is then channeled financially, one way or another enough. Now your status form allows such personnel a la Jaklič. In your coalition, you have quite a few more of them in stock that are constantly floating at the right moment to the surface and then working in these companies. I'm in the end as the last discusser. I think it's a bad marriage that there's no point in letting him go into further consideration. Why would we make things worse than the ones we have? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-06-17-SDZ5-Redna-18.ana.u191	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly tomorrow, 18. 6. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 18th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you for your cooperation.
