ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 36th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: László Göncz until 11 a.m., Miran Potrč from 10.40 to 13.30, Jakob Presečnik, mag. Stefan Tisel, Marjan Pojbič, Marjan Križman, Milan Gumzar from 13:00 on and Roberto Battelli. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 36th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to the 20th meeting. 12. 2010 We are moving on to the consideration and decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. The first-signed group of Members and Members, Jozet Tanka, requested an extraordinary meeting with the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and the members of the Committee of Inquiry on Patria. In the context of the request, the Group of Members and Members proposed to extend the agenda of the 36th extraordinary meeting by means of that request. The proposal for that Decision may only be drawn up by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. At the moment, such a decision is not prepared, nor can an extraordinary meeting be requested on an act which is not. Once such a decision has been drawn up by the Commission, the National Assembly will be able to deal with it. In view of the above, in accordance with the agreement of today's meeting of the College of Heads of State of the College, it is proposed that the agenda of the 36th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly be extended by a point of order. If this decision is prepared, we will also consider it at this meeting. Would you like a word from the government? He doesn't want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? They don't want to. I therefore conclude the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 52 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The Assembly will consider the voting enlargement as item 3 of the agenda. We are moving to a full vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference, and a follow-up. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, for 59, for 1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 36th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. At the same time, I inform you that we will be working today until 3:45 p.m. and we will continue the meeting tomorrow at 9 a.m. because of the points we have, and because of the timing of the session. We're moving on to one. Agenda item — Proposal for a decision on the state-of-the-art state of justice, the political impact of the state-of-the-art and the state-of-the-art measures. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the 32nd Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Mag. Branku Grims. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to welcome you all on behalf of the entire Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors! Today, the word of justice will run. In fact, however, it will also be about the possibility of developing the country of Slovenia, because a successful, long-term working development is not without a well-functioning justice. Moreover, without a fully functioning democratic country, which is also part of effective justice, it is simply not possible to expect long-term economic development and economic performance. Unfortunately, the situation in Slovenia has turned out to be near the mirror set for us this time by a foreigner. In recent days, the distinguished The Economist wrote that Slovenia is no longer a fully democratic country. And that's something we should all be very worried about. One of the key problems we are facing and which has also led to this assessment is the poor situation in the field of Slovenian justice. The fact is that the debate on justice is one of the fundamental development issues. In the context of the economic crisis now felt by the whole world, but unlike Slovenia, much of the world, the United States of America, most of the great European countries, has already come out of this crisis successfully. Under these conditions, of course, the inflow of justice cases is greater than usual and the sensitivity of these processes is even greater. Why is he really going? In every modern society, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is the engine of economic development. A motor that is so much more sensitive if it has to operate in conditions where there is a great financial non-discipline, where contracts are not respected and where justice works infinitely slowly. The Constitutional Law makes it very clear that the right, the right to judicial protection, to a trial is exercised only if the judgment has been delivered within a reasonable period and, of course, it has also been implemented. At a reasonable time, however, Slovenia is on the tail of European countries. When we talk about small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, it is clear that it is not just owners. It is people who are employed in these companies, their families and that they are very small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are often victims of the financial non-discipline of large traders, large systems that deliberately delay payments. On the other hand, they are even victims of blackmail. I have received many statements in recent months, when people in Gorenjska told me the same story, but it was very different people, for different traders and for different products, that they simply stopped paying them according to contractual deadlines, in accordance with legal deadlines. This is about public companies. When they said they were going to press charges, they said whatever you wanted, you had a chance. Of course, it is a legal option to achieve a blockade to reach out to the account — but then what? Then the contract is terminated, and the sanctions that are for this entrepreneur are followed, and if it has the best product in this world, it can be worse than anything else. For this reason, it is clear that the sensitivity of the system, when it comes to this fundamental development issue in Slovenia, is much greater and much worse than elsewhere in Europe and the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises is worse. The second aspect of the state of justice is the protection of human rights. This is in some ways inseparably linked to the first question, but too often too little emphasis is placed on economic development in relation to a well-functioning judicial system. In fact, when it comes to the protection of human rights, this is largely linked to the problem of criminal proceedings or cases under criminal law. However, these are only good 2%. All the rest are matters relating to the rest, particularly economic law and private actions. What are the signals that Slovenia sends from the perspective of the current authorities abroad and in some way as a signal at home to entrepreneurs and to all citizens and citizens? These signals are definitely not good. For in Slovenia the judicial system is ineffective, already seven years ago the German judge Norma Dudikoff, who was in charge of this assessment at the time of Slovenia's approximation of the European Union, warned. He estimated that our judges are, unfortunately, engaged in protecting their privileges and salaries. In view of some of the laws adopted by this Government in this mandate, by which it has effectively abolished the Lukende system, which has been designed to eliminate judicial backlogs, and into the system of justice instead of awarding additional work, additional knowledge, additional efforts by all those operating in the justice system, it seems that these words are still justified, only that they are now raised to the level of state policy. Our purpose is not to criticize the behavior of individual groups. Our aim is to draw attention to the wrong policy in the field of justice, which not only makes this possible, but even makes it institutional and legal. That's why the consequences are so much worse. To note only some that are listed and detailed also in the material. In Slovenia, the issue of compensation received by people due to disproportionately long judicial proceedings is again exacerbated. At the same time, the interesting translation of the Ministry of Justice, which says, yes, is now a better situation than before. For example, you have spent more on some items than we have in this term. Why? Because the situation taken over by this government was much better than that of the previous government, which had to clean the barn in the field of justice. There were therefore more settlements and therefore more resources had to be allocated to certain items. Unfortunately, things are getting worse again, and we want to draw attention to that. The trend is completely wrong. It is also interesting that in the Committee's debate, the Minister questioned the additional employment of judges in the previous term. Of course, it was done for one purpose. Bringing new knowledge, new people, new energy to the types of justice and, on the other hand, this additional employment to reduce the situation in the field of judicial backlogs. This was a successful step, for they actually decreased significantly. Unfortunately, as it is said, the trend is now quite the opposite, despite the fact that 700 additional people have been employed in the field of employees, according to the minister. Apparently, it was a misbehavior. We firmly believe that the first and fundamental error is precisely the introduction of a balance sheet into the justice system, with which the most destimulated is the most capable, and has rewarded all those who in the past have caused the tightening of key issues in the field of economic crime. Over the past period, the statute of limitations of the Satex case were certainly the most negative. You know that it goes to 11 million euros, and you know that sooner or later, not only will everything be compensated to those who have already been convicted, but then to delay, because of the absolute outdated of the matter now. Not only is it likely that some additional compensation will have to be paid sooner or later, which is a kind of absurdity and in some ways the worst possible criticism of the situation in Slovenian justice. And it's not the only case, it's all you want, but it's all gone for 11 million Euros of loans, the taxpayers will cover sooner or later. It will probably be called the recapitalisation of a financial institution, specifically a bank, and probably then people won't even know why it reached into its pocket because the justice system doesn't work the way it should. Then we are surprised and some even resent it if Europe sets up a mirror for us and if the distinguished The Economist writes that Slovenia is no longer a fully democratic country. Everything else that has taken place in this mandate certainly does not benefit the better functioning of the judiciary. On the one hand, new and new cases have been imposed on the judiciary; on the other hand, alternative dispute resolution has been introduced in such a way that it is essentially a burden for taxpayers and there is very little in fact an additional benefit. In particular, with regret, it should be noted that the legal proposal we have tabled in the SDS, which would prevent the immediate transfer of judges and prosecutors between lawyers, has been rejected. Here it is not only a question of casting personnel from one field to another, as it was then tried to show, but also the fact that these people can abuse the information they have received under their official duties in another function. Of course, that's not acceptable. We therefore proposed to introduce a security period when such a transition would not have been possible, but unfortunately our proposal was rejected at the time. It was also not for the benefit of the public at large and extensive abolition of Notary cities. Notary services are now less accessible to all those living on the outskirts. This continues to talk about equitable regional development. When this government says so, it is clearly a misdirection, for actions are completely different from words. We also note the amendment of the Penal Code, which followed a rapid procedure, when it comes to dealing with Slovenian youth, an important issue in the field of human rights protection, but the transfer was soon over, since the Constitutional Court made it very clear in the end, I quote: "Because the Penal Code met the criteria set out in Article 28(1) of the Constitution of Slovenia on the determination of the criminality of juvenile offenders, it was not in conflict with them." This is said to have been okay with the law, it was just an attempt at political accounting, but unfortunately at the expense of the legal order and the legal system. This should certainly not happen in a democratic society. I should also point out, however, that it has been presented to the Committee by the Minister to prepare a comprehensive amendment to the Penal Code, some 100 articles, given that we all have a good memory of the fact that the ruling coalition, in its previous term as the opposition, has categorically opposed the new Penal Code, which for the first time is some of the acts that European law recognises as acts of corruption, therefore, as acts of corruption, as crimes, can then all of us rightly worry about what the objectives of this amendment to the Penal Code will be. This will certainly require great attention from the general public. I would also like to point out an event that we can call quite a support to the lobby of bankruptcy managers. Indeed, in this mandate, certain security guards were abolished in legislation that prevented payments of disproportionately large awards to bankruptcy managers. The SDS amendment was rejected to prevent abuse. Then there was even a warning from the Minister that he would change the rules, so that these awards would again be adequately limited. It was like a signal, a green light for some obvious link between the work of people in justice and bankruptcy administrators, because there was a real flood of completely disproportionately high payments, which of course went to the detriment of businesses, to the detriment of the public and, if you want, to the detriment of the rule of law. Nor should this happen in a democratic society in which justice would operate with full power. Finally, let us pay particular attention to political pressures in the judiciary, especially the prosecution, where not only the minister, but also some members of the prosecutor in the past, have demanded a certain amount of attention. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u3	Please finish! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u4	handling, specific emphasis, what to do, what to do no, and of course this far exceeds the border between the branches [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u5	Please finish [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u6	areas [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u7	with the show. [[...]] You're out of time. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u8	and with this message that this, Mr President, should not be the case in a democratic society, I conclude this introductory part. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The proposal for a decision is 21. 12. 2010 addressed the Home Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a decision after its consideration, the President of the Committee concluded that the consideration of the decision at the working body meeting had been completed. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Vink Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Notwithstanding the fact that I took part in the role of proposing yesterday, I have a duty to present a report here, such as that followed at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. We had at our disposal the working material provided by the SDS Group of Members. I presented this material myself. Of course, in the works, we Members of the SDS argued that the judiciary was not functioning effectively enough, quickly, transparently. This raises questions about some through the Constitution and the laws of the protected human rights. In the meantime we have listed many examples such as: Satex, Grubelič, Baričevič, Jaklič and so on. We also talked about the Penal Code, the Law on Lawyery, the Law on Alternative Dispute Resolution and so on. In his part of the presentation or in his performance, the Minister opposed more or less to all these views of the SDS Group. He thus demonstrated that the Lukenda project works that the country is in an enviable legal condition and so on, that judicial backlogs are falling. He also explained his view of the need to adopt laws that we considered unnecessary. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, Mrs Kralje, pointed out that the Committee would not have taken decisions or should not have forwarded conclusions to the National Assembly, but should have made recommendations. In the debate, opposition Members felt that Slovenian justice did not work, despite a large number of judges and so on. However, the Coalition Members were opposed to the view that the situation in this area is improving. The Committee did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group. He accepted the two amendments that followed the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, by title, not to conclude, but to make recommendations and address the preamble. The vote showed that the Committee did not adopt any or an amended proposal for proposals, but adopted a finding transmitted by Mr Anderlič as follows: the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, at the request of Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Tank, held a debate on the state of justice, its political impact and measures to regulate the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Our Constitution protects, in particular protects, two constitutional values: independence and authority of the judiciary. Both play an important role in ensuring the human right to judicial protection provided by the Constitution. This is why I would stress that in today's debate we would not go into easy accounting with a third branch of power, to widespread criticism and to undermine the independence and authority of the courts. Such an approach to political power is not a judicial approach and not a citizens whose rights are protected and guaranteed by the courts do not deserve and may not be afforded by politics. The Government notes that the material proposed by the applicants for this extraordinary meeting contains a series of unfounded and unfounded general perceptions aimed at undermining confidence in the law and undermining confidence in the justice system. There is no way to get rid of the feeling that this emergency session is nothing more than a continued witch hunt. This hunt, which you started immediately after the beginning of the previous government's term of office by expecting us to ignore all decisions of the Constitutional Court that you did not like politically, even though at the cost of violating fundamental human rights, is precisely what you are now referring to in this paper. You wanted to spend the taxpayer's millions on referenda on the Wage System Act, on the Judicial Service Act, on the Law on Lawyers, on deleted. In all these cases, the Constitutional Court has decided that the referendum is not admissible because it would result in unconstitutional consequences. Is this the legal country you advocate when you invoke the law only when it suits you politically? You have systematically violated the authority of the judiciary by profaning the candidate for President of the Supreme Court, both in Slovenia and abroad. You used measuring machines, you said it was a Slovenian Kurt Waldheim. You are doing the same in relation to the candidate for the new Attorney General, who would even deny him the right to act in justice at any time, even though he was, among other things, a long-standing constitutional judge. Obviously, the applicants of this meeting cannot tolerate independent ones because they cannot be of political benefit to you. You obviously want these benefits because some of you are in criminal proceedings, or you can't explain it to yourself. Of course, it's embarrassing to be accused of committing a crime, but before the law, we're all the same. There are no more untouchable. Nobody's untouchable, not you, not me. This is well known by Slovenian prosecutors and therefore nothing will help those who conduct criminal proceedings against some important, including political actors, so aggressively attack, starting with Prosecutor Branko Zobbek Hrastar. If, therefore, you are proposing, you are striving to have two legal states. One for the political elite you think you are, and the other for the others. The government won't let that happen. You've even gone so far as to make it clear to the Constitutional Court recently that it's servile to the present government. So that the German judges of the Constitutional Court led by the President were very surprised at the level of legal and political culture we have in Slovenia. On the other hand, of course, you do not support constitutional changes that would allow the Constitutional Court even more to protect fundamental human rights. Of course not. As this would be a matter of stability in the legal order, of uniformity in the case-law, of legal predictability, of greater legal certainty. This, of course, does not go hand in hand with the aim of creating widespread discontent and mistrust. This is your political objective and this is not only in relation to the political power so far, but also to the current legal authority represented by the courts. It is therefore absurd that, among other things, you are tearing down projects that you have designed yourself, such as an electronic land book. You frighten people with false claims about how notaries will enrich themselves, and in fact you are proposing this extraordinary meeting those who have prevented the reduction of notary tariffs in land-book matters. You don't give a shit about saving people. It's more for your political gain. You are disturbed by the fact that I restricted the award to bankruptcy managers during the previous Minister of Justice and that I reduced their remuneration. It bothers you that I did not agree to an increase in the legal tariffs of the entire professional group in the judiciary, such as lawyers, notaries, bankruptcy managers, mediators, you refer to the lobby. Is it not interesting that these lobbies, since I was the Minister of Justice, have achieved nothing but a reduction in their tariffs or, at best, the maintenance of these tariffs as they were at the time of the former Minister? You present lawyers and notaries as tax collectors, although it is our constitution for guaranteed professional groups, which play an extremely important role in the protection of human rights and in the legal security of natural and legal persons. You say that Slovenian courts are slow and ineffective. With this general assessment, the government disagrees. If I used a musical illustration, I would mark the speed of the Slovenian courts with "allegro, ma non troupe" – fast but not too fast. Although the economic and financial crisis has caused an enormous increase in the number of new disputes, last year the courts have had as many as 1.45 million cases in work, but have reached the level of outstanding cases as never before in the last 15 years, a 1/4 reduction in the number of outstanding cases has been made in this Government's mandate, reducing the backlog of cases by reducing the average time of resolution of cases in the Slovenian judiciary at this time of 6.1 months. So the procedures are getting faster, and it's not really what you say we're paying enormous damages. You paid for them in your previous term. Let me just give you one example. In the previous term, you paid 718 000 euros in damages in 208 cases following the judgments of the Strasbourg court. We've only paid 29 thousand more cases in six cases. The damages are falling. So, ladies and gentlemen, waiting days are running out. The judicial backlogs land, the compensations due to the lengthy trial are considerably reduced, and you claim that the judicial system is not working. Of course there are problems in our justice. We can't say we have an optimum condition. Therefore, at the Ministry of Justice and the Government, we have adopted a series of measures which, inter alia, allow for a more even distribution of cases, a more equitable distribution of judges across all courts. That's what we did with the new Law on Courts. With this law, we have, inter alia, removed the policy from the appointment of the Presidents of the Courts. As Minister, I gave up my powers to name them. However, we have strengthened their powers and responsibilities for the effectiveness of the courts. At the same time, they set up court directors as judicial managers. On the basis of the legal powers conferred on him by the Minister, the Council of Justice has already dismissed one President of the Court. It has recently adopted very strict criteria for measuring the quality and productivity of judges. Policy should support these processes, not undermine people's overall confidence in the functioning of justice. Our government has defined the fight against economic crime as a political priority, realizing that we do not have very jealous results in this area. Here is the main problem of the success of the prosecution managed by the state prosecutors. This success of prosecution should be measured by the proportion of convictions, not by the proportion of cases brought before the court by prosecutors, and then by some way raise their hands against the case, czech, and now the court is responsible. That's not true. The Prosecutor must provide a conviction if he has decided to prosecute someone for a criminal offence. Therefore, our government has given prosecutors a range of tools, a range of procedural tools, by means of the Police Cooperation Regulation, with the possibility of establishing specialised groups. We also laid the groundwork for a specialised section of the court. We're preparing a law on the State's Attorney's Office. Here we will set up a new specialized prosecutor's office to fight economic crime, and there will also be not only seven prosecutors in this group, as it is today, but there will be a new 21 of them. It is with interest that I look forward to the response of the applicants to this law. Will you support him or oppose him? When it comes to the issue of combating economic crime, let me also point out the so-called anti-Takkaun package of criminal legislation. I will be very surprised if you do not oppose this package, which will, among other things, provide for the seizure or confiscation of property on the principle of reverse proof burden. In view of the situation of the general economic crisis, this government has identified itself as its priority in reducing the negative effects of payment non-discipline. When it comes to the issue of judicial policy in this area, let me remind you that the National Assembly has adopted two laws: the Law on Enforcement and the Insolvency Act, which have been included in the government's exit strategy, and which have done a great deal to ensure that creditors get to what the debtor owes them as quickly as possible. We've reduced enforcement procedures, we've speeded them up. We have introduced a great deal of novelty, for example, in insolvency law, especially where owners do not recapitalise businesses in time. So we did what was possible in this situation. The National Assembly supported these measures in the field of justice. Not just the National Council. They were supported by the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce. Therefore, do not say that nothing works and that justice policy does not work and that it is inadequate. More. Some of these laws have even been supported by you, the proponents, which is commendable. It is not true that Slovenia is on the tail of Europe in the field of justice. On the contrary. Slovenia enjoys in the international environment the reputation of a regulated rule of law. Why do you think the Council of Europe and the European Commission have already given us two special recognitions? For the introduction of mediation and for the introduction of electronic enforcement. Special confessions. This means that the Council of Europe and the European Commission are proposing to all other countries to follow the Slovenian model in this area. Why do you think the European Commission is now so interested in the Slovenian sound recording project? Because we are the first country in Europe to systematically introduce sound recording of the main hearings to all courts, which brings great savings to the sustainability of judicial proceedings. Of course, no one denies you the right to criticize even when it comes to the functioning of the judiciary. However, it should be noted that no one, nor the Government, nor the Minister of Justice, in constitutional democracy, should assume the powers and powers vested in the judicial authorities. I have therefore initially pointed out that it is only the judicial authorities, i.e. the prosecutions and the courts, who can take concrete legal decisions in concrete procedures. If they do not, as apparently very likely happened in the Satex case, this is very bad. Here's all we can do, just to find out what went wrong, why it went wrong, and who's responsible. I have initiated these proceedings, the Supreme Court will review the case and also prepare a report, which will also inform the National Assembly. It is not true, however, that Satex's compensation will be paid by taxpayers. All three defendants in this case have already been convicted in judicial proceedings. Each of the 3 million Euros 300,000 has recovered the damage they have caused. Thus, the Satex case proves that justice is not naturally immune to errors or delays in work. But on the other hand, it also does not indicate that the holders of judicial functions are irresponsible. Our Constitution and our laws set out precisely the procedures for the enforcement of professional, disciplinary, criminal and criminal liability of judicial officials. If necessary, such procedures will also have to be initiated against responsible officials in the Satex case. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I want to give you a chance. The opportunity, above all, for those who wanted this debate to make at least one good proposal to make at least one good solution. This is where we came to the meeting today as good managers who come to the meeting. They always come to a meeting with solutions, not problems. So far these proposals and these solutions have not been heard on your part and are not found in the material you have presented as a basis for this extraordinary meeting. I hope you'll present them at least in this session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u13	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u14	Your Honor! When we Members of the Liberal Democracy received material for the convening of an extraordinary meeting, we first asked ourselves what, during this adventurous time of peace, during parliamentary holidays, such excitement in the types of applicants of this meeting. So something has to go wrong or it has to be with this country, with justice and even more wrong with it. Otherwise, we would not be having extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly at this time, nor would we be discussing material from which nothing can be detected, which would be particularly wrong in justice and in all those systems around which there was much talk. By the way, on the Committee yesterday, we discussed or discussed at least the content they wanted to transfer to the meeting of the National Assembly today, but everything else. Even if we had enough time, we would have stopped after six or how many hours. If the aim is to find out what is wrong, what is wrong, what should be improved in the judiciary, then surely we cannot do so in the way presented in the material for this meeting, where on one side and a half in general you find out what is wrong, and you write nine conclusions from which the National Assembly finds out, it assesses specific cases, concrete actions and also the consequences arising from both the work of prosecutors and the work of judges, both from the work of notaries, lawyers and I do not know who else. No, no one claims that what is in justice today is really ideal and the best and that it is impossible to improve things. On the contrary, with the immediate monitoring of the action, with the responsibility of the Government, which the Minister of State has to have when it comes to establishing appropriate conditions for the third branch of government, as it is usually said that it will be able to manage its constitutionally defined tasks independently, impartially, quickly, effectively, empirically, it can also be found that things are improving, that the backlogs are smaller, that some things are causing public distress, which cause some doubts that they are coming into final stages and that they are also being resolved. Only two specific cases justify this requirement for an extraordinary meeting. This is the case of Jaklitz and the Satex case. One of these cases, after what we heard on the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice, is apparently not even completed. So, in addition to having already had two or three extraordinary meetings of the Committee on Internal Policy, there is a re-emergence in the request for a reference to this meeting. And what do we do with it? When we are answered from the Supreme Court, when we are answered by all those who must deal with this case, and ensure that it is not as it is recognised in politics, we still do not believe, there are still doubts. It is irresponsible of politics, in particular in this pre-godly and pre-new time when peace and respect among people should prevail, as well as among politicians, judges and others, to consider how, however, everyone together would contribute to improving things where there is evidence. Who today can claim that what is written in the material is correct, and what the government, the minister with the data, with the specific numbers, assures is wrong? There is no other option than to trust legal authorities who carry out their duties under the law and the constitution to trust them until proven otherwise if any other facts exist. It is easy to understand that it is necessary to do everything in order to try to convince people that there is nothing and that every thing is not. It is most sensitive in the area where people, individuals, groups are looking for justice. They're looking for justice before the law, they're looking for a right that they think is on their side. But we're under the impression that they're not looking for it, because they're not going to get it, because they're supposed to be two legal states for two different structures of people. [[advertising in the hall]] Yeah, two legal states. Yesterday, we discussed, Mr Joseph, you were not here yesterday, and we would have added to our cleverness that session, which was really spirited, because some things were repeated for 6 hours and nothing more than a repetition of some insinuations and things. Indeed, any conversion you know how to make would help to make things like this. How can you say that there are two legal states, if there are three members of the court, one has even gone through the court and the other has not? So, if that were true, then certainly there would not be an indictment against two fellow Members, not even against me and so on. Well, I guess we're all the same here. I believe that the court, the judicial branch of power, must have what Members, legislative and ministers, or other branches of government, have, enforceable, all the conditions, as enshrined in the Constitution and laws, in order to be able to carry out our duties by law, according to our conscience. As soon as it comes to interpreting everything on the road that's actually possible to interpret, the way that if you're not there, if you're not in a position, then everything is wrong. You will probably not claim that from 2004 to 2008, there was a completely different country on Slovenian soil, entirely other people, and especially, if we are talking about justice now, these were other people who had nothing to do with the laws or with anything else before 2004 and not before 2008. The permanent term is more than obvious what we had to do in order not to come into the situation so that each authority in particular, I do not know how it would have been during this period 2004-2008, if these permanent mandates were not, how many more judges and judges would have remained there, because it would probably be as we have seen in each debate when a solution comes on the agenda that you do not like, and would have done with them on behalf of the truth and the rights that you know only the proposers of this session. Yesterday we proposed one proposal for a decision, which was the only possible one, so that we discussed and introduced ourselves to what you had to say, but we were not able to draw such conclusions that were indicated in the material, so that it was to increase the backlogs, that it was a bad job and so on. By participating in this debate today, too, in a way that we will try to reject the untruths, the reversal of the distorted claim. Last night, too, it was possible to read different papers both at and after the meeting and to adapt to the data. I think that the truth, the lie, the greater lie, the statistics, of course, applies, but we have no other basis for our work than statistics and as results that are classified in statistics after some work done. Justice is also applicable. I'm not very pleased, though, reading that there were a million and a half open court proceedings last year, and I don't know what a huge number they are. I would rather see that Slovenians do not go to court so much and justify themselves in one way or another, or that they would not be treated in such proceedings. Even by group, I believe that the Minister will have the opportunity to further explain certain segments of statistics in different segments when it comes to criminal acts, when it comes to certain other justices and so on, statistics are very eloquent and testify to the fact that measures to improve legislation, improve certain ways of working within the judiciary to produce results. Otherwise, we can't explain it to each other. I believe that it will be possible, I am an optimist here, and I also trust those who have proposed this extraordinary session, that they still have some other proposals to go towards improving the conditions for the work of justice. This is also our task, and I believe that this is the only way to prove the need for this urgent session. I believe myself, and I am convinced that this requirement did not meet the conditions of the Constitution and the rules of procedure, that it had to be invoked because it does not concern any matter which would endanger the country at this time, which would be problematic in terms of safety, health and so on by citizens and citizens. It is true that 15 Members have the opportunity to do so. And if only signatures are enough, there is one thing, but it is always important for me to judge why an extraordinary session, and even an extraordinary session in this way at a time if you want to, parliamentary holidays. Parliamentary holidays from 20 December to 10 January are not for this reason and are therefore not invented in that mandate when the Rules of Procedure were adopted, because Members would not be allowed to work, but because citizens and citizens must also be relieved of the daily political pressures that come from some kind of unsatisfactory policy or due to mutual accounting. To re-examine some things when regular work is planned according to all the criteria that we have set ourselves, so that we can in peace judge the arguments, what is right, what is wrong and what to change in what area. Therefore, it is illogical, unacceptable to try to upset people even at this time, and this meeting is nothing more than an attempt to divert attention from current things that are burdensome for some, and to show that thieves are elsewhere. I believe that this will not work, and that in the end we will all confirm together, that progress in justice, that things are improving and that they are not at all as chaotic and problematic as the proponents say. If it takes seven hours and more to discuss it, we'll just have it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u15	Mr Andrej Magajna has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u16	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Mr Minister with a Fellow! The Group of Non-Aligned Members reviewed and assessed the materials of the applicants, including myself on the state of justice, the political impact on it and on the measures taken to regulate the situation, and the material transmitted to the National Assembly in response by Mr Minister. We're not uniform about the state of affairs assessments. After all, we are also autonomous in our relations. I want to say that this is not a conflict in the group, but a legitimate distinction in evaluation and evaluation. The common denominator of our views is, in fact, that the situation is not ideal and that it could be better. More about our individual views in the debate that will follow.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u17	Ms Lavtišar Bebler has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister and Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! While it is true that we are trying to make the Member States from the point of view of the supervisory function of the National Assembly more comprehensively in the judiciary and, in particular, from the point of view of the legislator responsible, to get deeper into the question whether the legislation in force provides optimal conditions for the effective functioning of justice and for its corresponding constitutional position in society. The legislator must also constantly wonder whether the applicable legislation is sufficient to ensure that citizens and citizens get an effective, impartial and definitive solution to their problem before the court as soon as possible. The legislator must, by appropriate legal standards, provide the basic conditions for the public prosecutor to effectively and effectively prosecute crimes when the perpetrators, in particular during the current period of the financial and economic crisis in very unusual and innovative ways, are, as a rule, always one step ahead of the state prosecutors who file criminal charges against them and represent criminal charges before the court. The legislator must accept that legislation respects consistently the principle of the division of power in order to ensure consistent respect for the independence of the judiciary, respect for the rule of law and the rule of law of society as a whole. And hand to heart, in this mandate, we have consistently followed these observations as a legislator so far. Even naked statistics tell us that trends in judicial backlogs regarding the decline in the number of pending cases, the amount of compensation paid due to an unreasonable trial, compensation based on friendly settlement and compensation due to unjustified detention are favourable. By extending Lukend's programme until the end of 2012, we can look forward to further improving some of these statistics. All of this goes in the direction of speedy judicial proceedings in order to ensure that citizens come to a decision on their rights or on their own justice before a court as soon as possible. Another, and an extremely pressing problem, is how to improve the effectiveness of prosecution, particularly in relation to economic crimes. The joint report on the work of the State prosecutions for 2009 on individual crimes shows that the effectiveness of prosecutions in relation to the proportion of prosecutions and the proportion of convictions reached is low. That's worrying. This information creates a sense of lack of confidence in the efficiency and impartiality of justice among people. People often feel that it is not worth being honest in our society, that it is more worthwhile to be outside the law because dishonest people are not caught and that the prosecution and the court do not prove guilty or responsible. And that's where politics comes in. The protagonists of this policy are those who, on a flat-rate basis and of course, tend to tell the public that in Slovenia there are two legal states - one for the rich and the other for the poor, one for the influential elites and the other for the ordinary little man. And the protagonists of this policy have submitted to us, as a justification for these claims, a letter for today's meeting, which is full of inaccurate and flat-rate assessments, which also clearly shows that they themselves do not respect the basic positions of the independent judiciary and the rule of law. By intruding in open court proceedings and their political evaluation, they show the most authentic of their true image and their true attitude towards the rule of law and the postulates of this state by denouncing and denying professional credibility and personal integrity to individual judges and state prosecutors. It would not be worth responding to all these deceptions and instigations if it were not a dangerous and, of course, a politically orchestrated activity directed against the principles of a democratic society. Even less would it be worth mentioning the non-professional material of the applicants. She's already told her story about the Law-Legal Service of the National Assembly. If this material were not to demonstrate that your main lead in your political activities is the Machiavellistic principle: The purpose is the means. And what is your purpose? Your intention is to convince our people that everything is wrong in Slovenia after you are no longer in power. Especially is everything wrong with justice, which people are particularly sensitive to. It is clear that people are most sensitive to the issue of equality before the law, fair and fair trial, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. It's true - justice isn't all right. There are relevant analyses of the situation in specific areas. The government and the ministry are working with this professionally and also with us - Members - is to try to remedy the weaknesses by improving the legislation. It is not possible to achieve this simply by misleading, bribing, and lying. Because today, a representative of the proponents started his debate by quoting The Economist, the publishing group Economist, when the Economist said that Slovenia was no longer a rule of law. Let me say that this is also a matter of profound lies and deception. For the Economist said that it is still in Slovenia the power to highly assess electoral processes and civil liberties. Economist assessors also gave our country a very high rating in these categories this year. The electoral processes and political pluralism conditions, as they were two years ago, were assessed by an estimate of 9.58 out of a maximum of 10. Also, civil liberties have been re-evaluated by 8,82. At the same level, with an estimate of 6.67, the participation of citizens remained, and the functioning of the Government, which was assessed at 7.86 in 2008, fell to 7.14. This year's lowest rated category, political culture received an assessment of 6.88 when it was last measured by the public opinion. Well, we've fallen most into the category of political culture. We have therefore fallen into a political culture, and that is where your contribution is solid. We just can't deny you that. Therefore, in our Group of Members, we do not agree with this way of dealing with very serious problems. That is why we reject such treatment. Of course, we are always prepared to help improve legislation on justice and in particular the rule of law and respect for human rights through our constructive contributions and considerations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u19	Mr Vinko Gorenak has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u20	Thank you very much. In view of the Minister's performance and in view of some of the performances, I will have to answer some more questions, lies and more, as we have just heard. Look, you have to say the following. In our constitution, the position of the judiciary is well regulated. The position of the Constitutional Court is also well regulated. But reality is falling away, and this is significantly different from what is stated in our legal acts. If I reach back just a little bit in 2009, when the Constitutional Court ruled on the Law on Lawyers and we were attacked in the SDS Group, as well as on our own, that we should not comment on matters that are enforceable, etc. Madam Minister has asked me to resign, and she has confused that she is a minister and I am a Member. She forgot that. Me, we can invite her to the retreat, not us. I think that Mr Pahor has thoroughly cut the issue with his speech in Parliament on 18 May last year and that this is fine. If we look now at the question of the independence of the judiciary. All of you stand by the way you defend an independent judiciary. But who says in the opposition that he is not for an independent judiciary? The independent judiciary does, today and tomorrow, even after the constitutional changes. In any case, however, it must be said that without an independent judiciary there is no rule of law, including tomorrow's country, which we can hope to live in better than today, so it is not. So without the independence of the judges, without the independence of the trial, without the independence of the enforcement of evidence, there is no independent court. We'll always support that. But, ladies and gentlemen, setting wages is not the independence of the judiciary. The court has to share. In any case, the judiciary must share the fate of all citizens. And it is not permissible for him to determine for himself how much the judges will have to pay. Forgetting, writing judgments, like the case of Šubic, is not the independence of the judiciary, but is negligence and so on. An unreasonable statute of limitations, such as the Satex case, is not the independence of the judiciary. The trial in unreasonable terms is not the independence of the judiciary. Coming to work or not is not the independence of the judiciary. Or, as reported by Mrs Roblekova, President of the Court of Justice, a few days ago, who is directly forcing the National Assembly to raise their salaries to what is theirs, referring to certain acts of the European Union. Is this the independence of the judiciary? No, Mrs. Roblekova. But it is necessary to know that the judiciary will also have to share the fate of those who do not have a piece of bread. Let's move on. I think the position of minister is well regulated in the Law on State Administration. I believe that the Government Act also makes it very clear what the Minister's job is, but this Minister does not carry out these tasks, which I will base on hereafter. The Minister also swore to this speaker, signed a declaration that he would swear to respect the constitutional order, how he would act on his conscience and work with all his strength for the welfare of Slovenia. Is that so, Mr. Secretary? I haven't noticed that yet. And I'll prove to you that you don't. Mr Minister, in any event, is well aware of certain other matters. Takes care of the status of lawyers, takes care of the material status of notaries, bankruptcy managers and someone else. The explanation follows. Of course, we must ask ourselves in all this whether Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia still applies. It says that Slovenia is legal on the one hand and the social state on the other. This is supposed to mean that it is a legal and social state for all citizens, but that is not the case. There are many examples that convince us otherwise. The judiciary, however you defend it in the coalition, does not work effectively. The judiciary does not act transparently. The judiciary doesn't work fast enough. This prevents the operation of entire state subsystems. This is also why the economy is in difficulty, since it is not decided within some reasonable time frame. Access to justice within the reasonable time limits of citizens is not possible. Are we or aren't we a state of law? What can I tell you? After all, only a few others talk about it. Important economists Damjan, Masten, Polanec said the justice system was clinically dead. This is worse than what I think or what we think in the parliamentary group. So these gentlemen have written the matter down a little bit worse. Dr. Cerar, I don't put him on the left and even less on the right, let's admit to him some independence, says, "Many indications show that some are privileged." What did he say other than that one has more rights than the other? He didn't say anything else. The minister said earlier, give me one suggestion. Minister, here are seven. Write. First, amend the Criminal Procedure Act to allow for faster and more effective trials. Secondly, amend the Penal Code to allow for faster and more effective trials. Thirdly, you change the Law on Lawyery, which will not be priced to themselves and will be subject to discipline by an independent body, not themselves. Fourthly, change the bankruptcy law by which workers will get more than just those who are called bankruptcy managers. Fifthly, support the Land Book Act, which is in parliamentary procedure and is the same as yours, except in the part where you wanted to give 30 million euros to notaries and lawyers. Six, support the law filed by the Group of Ambassadors, really, so we don't say anything but ours. He's talking about reverse burden of proof or confiscation. But you attacked the law. Week, change the Law on Courts. Maybe even in that part that talks about the presidents of the courts and the directors of the courts. I get a bunch of letters from the judges saying that the presidents of the courts are now out of work and have the same salary. And listen to them too! Last but not least, change the notariat, what you can do with a submarital act, and make it more accessible. So, you got seven suggestions. If you failed to track, see the magnetogram. Let's move on, "we have two legal states." Yes, we have two legal states and nothing else. One is for those who have money, who have influence, who are rich and who are strong. One for the poor or the chicken thief, if you want. These are also very fast in court, but the rest of them are not, they tend to get old. Who believes in the rule of law from responsible politicians in this country? Who? In the last few days, I have counted three: Minister Kresalovo, Minister Zalar and the President of the State. Let's see what they say. Mrs. Kresalova: "The rule of law is in good condition." That's great! Of course, if Mrs. Kresal is thinking of being persecuted by subordinate criminals. They've been looking for eight months for what she did in the event of a lease from the NPU, and they're not finding anything. I believe they won't, either, as long as she's sitting in this chair. Yes, the rule of law is – the Baricevic case, because the minister's brother decides in one day. After college, he sends a judgment, "Baricevic needs to get the dogs back." This makes a mistake and applies the wrong law; it doesn't matter. However, the rule of law is not for Mr Meglic, who waits for the fifth year for any compensation in the same case when he was bitten by those same dogs. Yes, in such a case, these gentlemen may continue to spend the flowers on the rule of law. However, the workers of Vegrad, Preventa, Moore, now probably some other burning company, some Ljubljana companies, that there is no legal state because they have nothing to eat. Minister Zalar also says that "our rule of law is in better shape than ever." I said yesterday that I see, I'm sorry, Minister Zalar in his performance as an imported doctor with a fake diploma walking around a patient and saying, "You're in good shape, condition, here's an aspirin." Oh, poopy! It's about having a cancer patient in front of us. And we're going to be consuls today, and we're going to make a diagnosis. The minister's not capable of setting her up. I'm not going to talk about London's The Economist, who's not a person, but he's something else because my predecessor already talked about it. "We don't have two legal states," says the president of the country, "we justifiably consider ourselves a successful country." Mr. President, bravo! Of course, Mr President says we are a successful country. Yes, of course, that's what he thinks, he lives in this world, which is an imaginary world that is not Slovenia. But if he spends as much money on a flight to Sarajevo as a worker earns in 15 years! Yes, of course we are a successful country. And he's flying to London, and he's teaching a little class at the university where he's studying his daughter. And that, yes, because we're a successful country, right? But, Mr President, I think Mr. Žerjav, I cannot use this as my own, once said, "Come from the Moon home, to Slovenia." That's true of him, too. Above all, it is true that he is not the President of all citizens. That's a fact. I will skip some of the things I have prepared, especially around Norman Dukoff, who has written very clearly many, many things and highlighted only one thing. This gentleman said in 2003: "The judges are engaged in protecting their privileges and salaries, salaries and salaries." Isn't that the same today? Completely the same after seven years, they decide how much they need to pay. They've earned their own salary. It's exactly the same thing. The Minister has spoken, or he will speak. Yesterday he spoke about the sin he had committed in the previous government because we increased the number of judges that he was having trouble with today. Yeah, how? We had to get rid of those lawsuits. That's what we were doing. At the same time, he's two-faced. Two days ago, we confirmed four new judges, and he says the problem is, on the one hand, the judges are the problem. Now, Minister Zalar, look. I still insist on this position that you, with some normal work, which I do not assess as normal, correct, fair and in accordance with your oath, can do much. But you took care of the notaries, the lawyers, the bankruptcy administrators, including the mediators. I hear you're also going to some other stuff like arbitration, but we'll say something else. But I don't think he's doing his job. We have already warned this before we get this government that the Minister has politically assessed whether it is appropriate or not to be a suitable body of the Constitutional Court in order to decide both. This happened in 2007 and 2008 respectively. We said this candidate wasn't suitable for a minister. The minister also called on the judges: "Let's boycott the elections in the judiciary," this happened in 2008. He even said, "Judges, stop solving matters where the state is sued, the defendant." And we pointed out these things before we got this government. In 2008, he worked in Mr Senica's office and held his judicial mandate. Is that illegal? It's illegal. That's what we warned you about in time. So the state of law works for our minister. Lukende's results, very briefly. From 2004 to 2008, the number of judicial arrears steadily decreased. I'm gonna skip this slide and go to the next one. The Minister has already served with charts, showing some things on the Committee yesterday. Mr Anderlich also talked about how we manipulate statistics, and I'll explain. Look, what you have on this slide is the data from the Ministry of Justice, which relates to the first 6 months of 2010. As much as was available at the time of writing this request. I'll point that out. But what the Minister's selling shows is graphs, and it's also true that they don't think it's true. But he took on 2009 because it was better for him. In 2009, at least in the first half, this judicial system worked even further on the perpetuum mobile system, based on the effects of what Mr Šturm did, and then what Mr Minister began to introduce. That's why the difference. But the fact is that the judicial statistics that we've been showing all along are exactly what they are. Indicatively, the backlog in the district courts in the six months of this year is increasing by 56%. Courts of employment by 48 %. This is information for the first six months. He also has a minister, and I copied that data from them. So the minister did not speak the exact data because he spoke data from 2009 and 2010, because it was better for him because the chart is a little more beautiful. Of course, one thing has to be said. We've already heard, and we'll hear about it. The D.A. is a problem. No, if it's next May 5th, it won't be next year. Then the prosecution will be fine. But as long as Mrs. Brezigar is there, it's bad. Look at the manipulation, Mr. Anderlich, really listen to me, because you'll see, it's interesting. Next thing. The minister's talking about the charges and the convictions. But what the courts are judging today was also invested by Zdenka Cerar. What Barbara Brezigar and prosecutors are investing today will be tried in 2014, 2015? He won't be in the same year. And that's why these data are an insult to the Minister for All Slovenian Prosecutors. Since reality is next, we can look at the prosecution work through the indictments, through the dropped charges, through the accusations, which is very important and, of course, judgmental judgments. But if we just look at the charges during the Bezigar mandate, they went up from 550 to 710 in the amount of crimes that I also have written, and of course you can get the data. Charges from 550 to 710, convictions from 215 to 276. However, there are certain crimes such as corruption, abuse, fraud, money laundering, etc. Look, this is the right measure of how many charges have been filed, not what the courts have done. The courts have a five-year delay. So it's not fair what you're saying. So, why, as Minister, the Lukend project has stopped. That's a de facto fact. And it's about going back. The trial in unreasonable hands. Indemnities for trial in unreasonable terms. Look, Mrs Beblereva and Mr Minister, in 2006, you paid so much, in 2007, so much, and in 2009, I am only so much, says the Minister. You see the manipulation? Do you see manipulation or don't see it? The first judgments from Europe began in 2005. In 2007, we adopted a law in this National Assembly, which we said was no longer necessary to go to Europe. The Slovenian courts are going to convict you of this. In 2008, there were still recent reasons why a judgment came from Europe, and the Minister showed only those data coming from Europe, not those of the courts which are in the same cases in Slovenian courts. No judgment should come from Europe. Not one. We do have our own marriage. So, Minister, you're deceiving, I'm not gonna say, you're lying. But that word would be just fine, too. Inefficiency of the judiciary. Some facts. Economic crime, tax evasion, corruption, organised crime. Yeah, you can talk as much as you want about an effective trial. If you want to talk about it, you can talk. People, numbers, and above all people's feelings, where reality is, are the only criteria. I can't read all the e-mails people send me on this subject every day. I can't. That's the standard. Not your virtual world about the rule of law. Virtual world, how good we are in this country. That's the only criterion. But who can change that? That could change the minister. By bringing into life the laws that I had just proposed to him, or at least by supporting one of those that we had written — let us say — really wrote or wrote. But he's against it. What else is the problem? The Supreme Court, which must carry out its duties. The problem is management, i.e. the Presidents of the Courts, the Presidents of the Higher Courts and at least the Judges. At least to the judges, who I also thank for all the writings I've received in the last few days. At least there's a problem with them. Consider the case of Jaklitch. Whatever you say, but not a closed case, etc., remains a fact, 300,000 euros seized. The minister will say it's Bezigar's fault. That's how the tape is stopped. The court returns the case after one year because nothing happened. His lawyer says I'll ask for compensation. Who's gonna pay? Those who have 500 euros to pay. Satex – we don't have much to say here. The Minister agrees with that, too. But former Attorney General Zdenka Cerar said that every pig is not a crime. That's right. It is also true that the Satex case has turned the judicial branch of the authority of evidentiary crime into a major mess, which is not a crime, which is true. I don't think I'm gonna have much to say about these numbers. But the minister used to say, "You forgot that three times three million euros, three times three million euros." Minister, have you not yet seen the personal bankruptcy has been declared. Well, they're not going to pay that money back, but they're going to pay it back. Why fool people? These people have made a personal bankruptcy and it's over. They don't have any more money. Taxpayers pay. That's what you have to say. The case of Grubelič is also interesting, ladies and gentlemen. This is one of the rare cases experienced by a court epilogue. He was led by Mrs. Brezigareva as a prosecutor. In the Supreme Court, he was tried by a judge who was not fit for president. This is Mr. Shorley. This is the one who is not suitable, according to the coalition. What happened? He was convicted years ago. Now, at least according to my information, he's been home since 1998, because he's sick. He's probably got a cold. This one and the same private doctor is writing him a doctor's apology. What's gonna happen? Nothing. The court doesn't have anything. According to my information, it was also decided by the Administrative Court and I guess I do not claim it, but as far as I know, the Minister's brother also decided that it was okay to have a cold since 1998. It's a legal state. Keep talking about her. Prosecutor Zobbez Hrastareva is a police officer, we have talked a lot on the Committee about this, and the Attorney General must not interfere with the work of Barbara Zrabbez Hrastar, because she is independent. God forbid. What really happened, but you saw last Monday in the show Views of Slovenia. What was said there? That there was something else found? What did Mrs. Hrastar say to the police? Find the cop or the criminal who took the picture and put it in public on the phone. Look who took that picture. That's what we need to find. This must be condemned and closed. Those who didn't see the cameras 200 meters around, that's fine. That's not what the D.A.'s after. Then is that bias? You don't think it's appropriate for him to go after the Attorney General and say what else is to be investigated? That's right. No wonder she said, "We'll never have the answers to all the questions." I'm almost gonna skip the alternative dispute resolution because I'm running out of time. But there is something to be said. Minister, you said yesterday you were also going to arbitration, to international meetings. You do something else for Slovenian arbitration if I don't help you in January to do it together. However, situations in this area are not what they would like. We have twice proposed a law that prevents judges or prosecutors from taking off one dress at midnight and putting on another. So, today's D.A. Judge, tomorrow's lawyer. The Minister has the answer: "The Constitution guarantees everyone the right to work." Well, they can. Or are police officers probably not people who have the right to work? They are forbidden to work in private security agencies for four years under the law. But the judges have a constitutional right, and the cops don't have one. So this is the state of law. We will also propose that the law be rejected once again by the Minister. Notary towns, very briefly. You don't need to talk. Yesterday, the minister told us about how he had abolished only those notary towns, where there were no candidates five times. Yes, correct it and ten times do it and stop persecuting Mr Sturm, who has made some appointment, and you have begun some persecution against him. Like it wouldn't be visible from the moon. There are some other things that need to be said about these things. I'd move on to the new Penal Code and cut it down. The minister says last year on TV: "The real disaster has happened. The Penal Code does not apply in the part where there is talk about minors. Mr. Sturm's terrible mistake." It's the same as the Ljubljana police chief going on TV and saying, "I'm gonna pull all the patrols out of Shiska tonight."It's the same as saying, "Go for it, you thieves." Isn't that the same? It's exactly the same. But if that were true, then one would say, "Well, there's been a mistake." But he didn't. The minister writes a new law, the government's law department says, "There is no legal void, the law is unnecessary." Parliamentary service says, "There is no marriage gap, there is no need for law." The higher court is doing the same. No, but the minister's right. The minister's still right. He's still right. Then you considered me not wanting to convene a meeting of the Committee, how I impede parliamentary work and so on and so forth, but there came a decision by the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court, the Penal Code in force. The coalition, however, adopted a transitional and final provision to wash the minister's face a little, to make him look better in front of the public. So why did the minister do it? To discredit the former minister and nothing else. I wish his successor didn't do it in relation to him. The following must be said: The Law on Lawyers has been amended. However, in the Law on Lawyers, the Government has written that a change is urgently needed, since the Slovenian Bar itself notes that in practice there is a significant breach of legal ethics and calculation beyond the legal tariff. The Minister, however, is going to amend the law instead of calling Mr Kozinac and calling his ears or sending him to a criminal procedure. No, it's not. The law has to be changed. There's a man here who wonders what's in the back. My answer is: care for those who are simply in need of help. These are lawyers, so the Minister thinks, because citizens are not so important. The Storm Act reduced these tariffs by 20 to 70%. In 2007 this Parliament passed a law under which 18 countries are determined by Parliament, the other countries are determined by lawyers, no, the minister returns to lawyers, set tariffs for himself with an agreement with me. What else does the minister do? All disciplinary commissions, their composition changes so that lawyers have a majority. Thus, they do not judge themselves, or judge themselves in such a way that they are never guilty of anything, but this is so clear because the composition of this disciplinary commission is as it is, most of the time, that lawyers are represented there. But reality is next. The minister says, "No one got any more money, I took care of everything, lobbies." As if Mr Kozinc did not give instructions to all Slovenian lawyers, "because we do not get higher tariffs, let that article apply where you can agree with the customers." And it will be very hard to find another lawyer who would not use this article or who would not have higher prices. And that's the consequence, another such interesting consequence. A while ago, a colleague of mine, as a lawyer, was in the process of opening a lawyer's office and at a time when he was a lawyer – I think that's what it's called – a person approached him and said, "Look, I think my lawyer has charged me a lot." He looks at the matter, looks on the other side of the tariff, and says, "Yes, he did, three times he charged you too much." The client says, "Can you take any action against this lawyer?" He says, "God." Well, what happened to him after he got to the district bar -- he got called by the head of the bar and said, "Fant, we're gonna have a little deal. You have no right to question and prosecute a lawyer, but it is your duty to ask the client if you have paid for everything." You see, then it's a reality. There's not much to talk about bankruptcy managers. Maybe just what the minister says and says he "restricted bankruptcy awards". Yes, of course! Yes, of course he restricted them! The Minister first amended the law by which a new rule is applied to old bankruptcys, and the awards jumped into the sky. If I skip all the other stuff, there's something else to say. The minister was also on TV, and he said, "I'm going to limit the winnings, I'm going to limit them very much, I'm going to step on their fingers." It's the same thing as going public and saying, "There's going to be 300% of the product tomorrow." Yeah, well, people are just gonna push it, that's all. And what did the bankruptcy managers do in cooperation with the judges? During the seven working days, 2 million 300,000 Euros of bankruptcy awards were awarded. More like 200, 300,000 euros a month. But the minister didn't do anything. Minister also nothing in the case of IU Vrhnika, nothing. Even that is irrelevant, workers have to achieve their own rights. Also, the minister is nothing in the case of 180,000 euros to be sent by the bankruptcy manager to his company. At the same time, it must be said that bankruptcy in the United States lasts five months and large banks go bankrupt. Political influence on the prosecution. There's not much to say here, but there's only one thing to say. The Minister introduced control at the request of the Zares Group in an open case. And today you're saying that we can't talk about open matters. It's a little bit like that, double criteria, one can't, the other can't. This is a very clear matter. After that surveillance, the minister screamed through the media, "The prosecutors are breaking their spines! I give the yellow card to the prosecutors," as if he were some kind of football judge. But what was the reality? But then the reality was that he wrote instructions that everyone in line said, "No, they don't have a legal basis." That's what the D.A. said, that's what the Office of the Government said, but they're irrelevant to you for a minister. He gave the instructions. Well, now the Constitutional Court has detained them and has forbidden him to give further instructions to the prosecution's organization. Yesterday, however, we heard that the law must now be amended, perhaps before the Constitutional Court ruled. So this is the reality we have. Just a few other things, just for a little while. Look, saving – Mr Pahor has long announced. At the beginning of this mandate, however, we experienced a public call from the Ministry of Justice, €29 000 for strategic advice. What was the truth? Back then, there were people who helped the parties during the electoral activities. The minister then cancels this call, of course, and says, "No, no, we have to save, we won't go into it. But the reality is that I asked him myself what was going on, and the public found out, and then there was pressure and it was a little awkward for my friends in their pocket every month, sending 29 thousand euros every year." But look, the minister meant it, and he didn't do it. Article 269, however, of the Penal Code states: "Anyone who seeks, accepts a gift, a reward, another benefit, a promise or an offer of such a benefit, or to take advantage of his position or influence and intervenes to perform/do no official act shall be punished by imprisonment for up to three years." That's great. She is also known at the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office for this article. In fact, on a famous day, the minister intended to make a known contribution to the well-known people. Hello!Oh, my God! Mrs. Hrastar. It's not gonna happen. In the SDS, we have drawn attention to the directors of the courts, which today are also pointed out by the directors of the courts or judges who write to me as follows: "We do not have the support of the Minister. The minister won't listen to us. The presidents of the courts have lost their powers, they have kept high wages." That's what I said last year. But now that's what the judges are writing. The presidents of the courts have become well-paid postmen and news carriers. Those are the words of the judges, not mine. Judges and presidents don't respond to obsolescence, that's the judge's opinion, not my opinion. In the hope that you Members of the SDS will understand our position, we expect you to highlight this issue. Those are the words of the judges, not my words. But look. To conclude, only the following is possible: Minister Sturm spent 19 000 euros in travel within 15 months, and Minister Zalar 55 000, we already know, these are publicly published data. But I would still warn you of this, the next comparison. In fact, the Minister is all-powerful in some areas. In 1979, he graduated from my colleague at the Faculty of Philosophy in Tacno. He wrote a degree in Social Climate in the Cadet Police School and compared social climate in the Cadet with the Logatec Educational Institute. His conclusion was that cadets feel worse than those in Logatco at the educational institution. They met with the CK ZKS, the Ministry's leadership, and they said, "This is an attack on socialism. The university met and said, "No, this task has all the scientific criteria." What was the result of this man? He was transferred from Tacno to Krsko. It's a terrible consequence or not. We were in solid socialism. But today we are in democracy. When the minister reads a diploma today, in which the student writes that she claims that her analysis of spending funds at the finance ministry showed that Minister Zalar really spends more than Minister Sturm, here, Minister Zalar performs the tasks of Minister, CK and everyone – that is, we are in democracy – and says, "Half an hour has time to disappear from this house." So do all the CK's tasks. You see, that's reality, and that's the time we live in. I'm not gonna mention the student's name. I don't want to expose her, but that's not fair. We'll support the conclusions, that's clear, and whatever they are. To conclude some of the following sentences. Mrs. Kresalova said, "The herd of SDS." The dictionary says it's a larger group of animals of the same species. Would that be an insult, Mr. Rozjej, to be a hate speech? Try to use your knowledge. I'm asking you because you're a specialist. Look, the President of the State didn't answer, the First Member of the National Assembly didn't answer. Then it's okay. So they're letting me know they're okay with it. But, ladies and gentlemen, 27 Members are therefore this herd, and it also has 30,000 members, yes, then it is a great herd. You know, he also has 307,000 735 voters from 2008, he's a huge herd. What if I, Mr. Rogers, told Mrs. Kresalo that the leader was a herd leader? See, the dictionary says that this is a disorderly, usually small group of animals. Which herd does the lady belong to? Would that be a hate speech? No, no, I can't say that. I can't say that because it's an hate speech, and that's why I'm not gonna say that she's in charge. The well-respected members of the flock who are watching us at this time, may this be a joy to you. Turn that into joy. In fact, these members of the herd are predicting different times. Just a look at the statistics shows us this, look, the herd of the devil is growing, that herd, the unordered group, and it's falling. It's also a reality. So you should be happy if you're a member of the herd. You must be very happy about this. I will say so, respectable citizens, respected citizens, members of the flock or not, however, when you send 60 Members, representatives of this herd or like-minded Members to the National Assembly, the rule of law will be for you, but it is not yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u21	Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u22	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Mr. Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! The situation in our judiciary is probably not ideal, but politics must by no means interfere in this sensitive area, which, by our constitution, is independent and in its work linked to the Constitution and the laws. Interference other than the amendment of the Constitution relating to the judiciary, the adoption of laws governing the judiciary and the election of judges, the appointment of the Attorney General, the President of the Supreme Court and the other with the Constitution and laws establishing the appointment of positions in the judiciary can be nothing but an unacceptable political pressure of the National Assembly on the independence of the judiciary. Also, the reference to the alleged great discontent of people with a court, which is, after all, understandable, because in a court of law one party always loses and is dissatisfied, cannot be the basis for the obvious and criticism at the expense of the judges in specific cases. The judiciary is an extremely sensitive area for the rule of law. Therefore, every intervention in its operation must be carefully reconsidered and, above all, be careful not to undermine fundamental confidence in the justice system as a whole by unscrupulously overestimated and mostly poorly or unwarrantedly overlying, unwarranted accusations from the parliamentary benches. Unfortunately, however, it has already become a folklore in our assembly that some Members are trying to lynch themselves politically to the uncritical public by vehemently settling themselves over the judiciary. This same part is more than hidden for the fall of Slovenia on the scale of democracy during imperfect democracy. It has already been mentioned here that Slovenia received the lowest rating for political culture. Anyone who looks at us is clear why, and the share of the blame here between us is equally arranged not to be imagined by chance. This time, too, the demands of the opposition SDS and SNS smell such a campaign. It is probably not a coincidence that the SDS launched a political offensive against Prosecutor Hrastareva first, and then against the judiciary at all shortly after her leader Janez Janša was summoned to trial for suspicion that he was at least indirectly involved with the people who were involved in the purchase of Patria armor. Of course, this is not the first time, a similar dilemma has already been seen by the merchants of death, and things have unfortunately waned. The turnover is interesting because, although any comment on the work of the Attorney General was immediately referred to as political interference with the work of the Prosecutor-General. However, when John Janša appeared in the prosecution’s file, of course, the record turned around and now this is declared a politically motivated conviction. So much for the reasons for reference, about the motive of colleague Marinič to sign under the request for today's session, probably need not be guessed. Surely there is no need to speculate on the reasons why members of the National Party tend to sign such a request for an extraordinary session, where the judiciary will be able to paint in the blackest colors, since it is a party whose Member is in prison. Her boss is not only a very sharp and offensive language when it comes to judges, he is also the most frequent guest among members of the courts, and if he believes in the party trumpet SDS, he was also a regular guest or had some permanent accommodation at the penal correctional home in the Age decades ago, but a beautiful society, colleagues and colleagues, and you would talk about the state of justice? Let's go! According to extensive and scrutinised material, the main objective of this forced extraordinary debate is, of course, not to assess the situation in court, but to accuse Justice Minister Aleš Zalar. At times, with his work, we in the Group of Members are not entirely satisfied, but to accuse him on 52 pages that he is guilty on the one hand of everything that is true in the judiciary and, above all, falsely wrong and on the other, that he has been unconstitutionally and unlawfully interfering with the work of the State Prosecutor's Office, but at least there is great exaggeration, if nothing else. On the political indoctrination of the Attorney General, on her involvement in the work of the Prosecutors, in her overcoming the legal powers, not a word. How simple. In short, this material is written as a new interpretation against the minister, and it's not formal. In the material, the Minister is personally mentioned as a villain more than 40 times. We are pleased to note that our Member of the Council of Zalokar Orazem, who mentions the material more than 12 times, is also working with him. Is it possible to discuss seriously the situation in court on the basis of material in which everything is black and white? The positives are the government of Janez Janša, Minister of Sturm, of course Dr. Vinko Gorenak and Barbara Brezigar. The last piece of material was written with the hand of Barbara Brezigar. Her comments and thoughts on surveillance regarding the Berglund case take up almost half of the 22 pages of material. This particular case of Berglund is proof that we can agree in one claim that we have two legal states. One for all others and one for Janez Janša, or for political friends of the Attorney General, who, according to his opinion, is politically motivated, is an investment or not a criminal charge, justified or not. In the conclusions of the SDS, the Constitutional Commission, inter alia, requires the drafting of amendments to the Constitution, which "will contribute to a more effective prosecution of the worst forms of economic crime and corruption". There is not a word in the material about any changes to the Constitution. Not only is it a question of what crime has to do with constitutional changes. It is worth recalling how the amendments to the five articles of the Constitution which speak of the judiciary have been discussed in this House since 2001 until the end of May 2004, which is at the same time as German Judge Norman Dukoff wrote this opinion, which was quoted here. The debate was completely barren because of the conflict of interest. At the end of the term of office, the President-in-Office of that Parliament simply found that they were leaving it all to the next term, which, of course, at the time of the Janša Coalition, had not been successful, as was the one I am mentioning. In order to refresh the memory, however, it must be said that the then Drnovskov government has proposed that judges should be appointed first with a five-year term and then assessed whether a permanent mandate should be given to them. An even greater political stumbling block was the proposal to appoint the President of the State on a proposal from the Judicial Council. At that time, colleagues and colleagues, you are also proposing today's agenda item, helping to ensure that there was no agreement and that there will probably be no agreement today. The real purpose of this agenda item is to draw attention away from court proceedings against members of the conscripts. Similarly, the establishment of parliamentary investigations is intended only to relativise the work of the Slovenian judiciary. In the Really Group, we are too respectful of this country's new policy to allow the squandering of the judicial branch of power, which could also result in the drying and dying of the entire country's tree, which many of you, among the proposing of this point, have created. Some with sincere, and others apparently regret dishonest intentions. While hope is the last to die, in our parliamentary group we want a debate based on facts, not lies. Also, so that in the coming days, if you want to do so, you can accept the Holy Communion without having to sit on your confession before this hour and hour. And to those who say "bee" so excitedly from this place, I say "no."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u23	Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u24	Nicely greeted. Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party for a long time, we have also been the first to point out this and actively remind that in Slovenia, unfortunately, obviously, if we want to admit it or not, there are two legal states. This has been said many times today. One for simple people who don't have elites and sound lawyers, one for elites who have money, influence and connections. Of course, all of us are trying to convince us that the rule of law exists in Slovenia and that it is the same for all of us, but no one can persuade us to do so only in words, but the law enforcement authorities, the police, the prosecution and the judiciary must convince us in particular by their actions. When the actions are such that we see for ourselves on specific occasions that the rule of law works, then we will all believe that. The praise of the Minister of Justice on the current situation in the Slovenian judiciary is therefore unacceptable in our opinion. We never claimed that everything was wrong. And it would be wrong for this to be true today, in short, that in justice, the justice system is completely wrong. However, there are cases of anxiety and fear - inspiring situations. I would like to quote a part of the letter from the Association of Insolvent Trustees, which was sent to Minister Zalar, quote, "in the current circumstances, participants in judicial proceedings are considered successful if the justice is concluded before the expiry of the statute or if the bankruptcy ends earlier than 10 years. The reduction of expectations and the immeasurable tolerance, the standing or apathy of people to poor or rather ineffective, inefficient institutions of the system does not mean that things are improving and that the situation is satisfactory. On the contrary, it means erosion and the near collapse of the last remnants of the rule of law, in which a system is created in which those who have money can best protect their rights." That's what the Association of Mortgage Trustees says. With the current state of affairs, interestingly, you are obviously satisfied with everyone in the coalition, only the final users of court services or right seekers are not. In the current situation, however, debtors and maggots of all kinds are most likely to find themselves, while the victims and victims of the injustices committed are waiting indefinitely for at least a minimum of satisfaction, which many times they do not even expect. The problem is not just in individuals. It is also obvious that a system that allows irregularities is problematic and does not properly sanction them. The non-response of the official institutions makes it clear that everything is allowed in this country and that the time limit of justice does not reach if you are only rich enough and powerful enough. The Minister's recent statements do not show a serious willingness to re-establish this country legally and fairly, by the scale of the people, and not by the size of the elites and networks, which, by their own free will and without control, increasingly decide on the fate of ordinary people and, indeed, the whole country. It would be time for you to start applying the passwords and passwords you perform in public. The right must be a tool of justice and not a tool of power. The law enforcement authorities must support the legal state's slogans with their work. In many ways, unfortunately, in the field of legislation and the functioning of institutions, the countries of the Western Balkans, which have been in the war recently, are still trying to join the European Union. Let's just look at neighbouring Croatia, where institutions process their former minister and even the Prime Minister from their own coalition ranks. Let us recall Mr Tošić, the notorious case and arrest of the so-called king of the Slovenian drug cartel. In Serbia, all assets were frozen by the alleged head of the chain. What happened to us? It's not worth mentioning. Well, I won't be too unjust. 40 Slovenian police officers investigated the suspicion of corruption in Slovenia's Automoto connection for six months, including with hidden investigative methods. The resounding epilogue of this super action is the detention of five Automoto employees as they have acquired between €30 and €50 bribes in at least five cases. Yeah, it's got to be haunted, too. But I guess we should have a higher priority. I'm sure those criminals would be much better off, at least in my opinion, if they were dealing with the Mercury case or some other case. The rejection of complaints about the Bulmastif case, unfortunately, does not shed good light on the rule of law. We believe that it is right that, after everything that has been going on in this affair, after all the proven illegal procedures, to which we in the Slovenian People's Party have repeatedly warned that it is time for someone to be responsible. To find out now that no one is simply to blame and that no one is to answer is a severe blow to this rule of law, and that is why it is the divisiveness for which political lawyers and perhaps other elites are most responsible. This must be resisted by all policy and, most importantly, by the President of the Government and the President of the State, because he simply does not lead in the right direction and is not good for our country. If we allow the affairs, as mentioned by the Bulmastif affair, the Satex affair, to continue, this means that we agree and that it is right. In the Slovenian People's Party, however, we do not agree with this and we will do everything possible to point out how loud this will be, since there is nothing else left for us as the opposition party right now. Let us take a look at what the report says, for example, the Office of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia, quote, "it is increasingly clear that the rule of law works better for those who have money and can afford lawyers". Furthermore, I quote, "on the pursuit of a permanent term of office as a constitutional category of guardians recommends greater diligence in the use of all available legal instruments that enable the supervision of the judge's work, from the examination of a specific decision in the decision on the remedy, this is done by the higher court, the official supervision of the judge's work, the introduction of disciplinary proceedings and, as the most extreme measure, the dismissal of the judge." That's what the guardian says, not me. However, right in front of the eyes will be the inaction and infirmity of the judicial system. It seems increasingly that the law is only in the function of protecting the stronger against the abusers. Why is that? Almost none of the employees involved in the justice system for negligence or abandonment of acts have yet been responsible, at least not heard. Unfortunately, we live at a time when values have disappeared. Everywhere you turn, you feel powerless. Infirmity, because people have a sense of injustice and powerlessness, because they feel that if you are strong enough and at the trough, nothing can happen to you. So from day to day, every time we reopen stories whose common denominator is an unethical, illegal, irresponsible and reckless conduct of one of the members of the Slovenian elite. To deal with the purpose of pursuing its own and non-economic and social benefits. On the other hand, people who have submitted their interests throughout their lives to society are now on the road. You know, people have enough spectacular arrests on camera. We've been getting used to it lately. People would simply like the final epilogues, the final epilogues of these insidious affairs. Strong individuals, in one way or another, in public functions should, by their conduct and example, increase confidence in the institutions of the rule of law rather than be played by money and by the best lawyers in the country. We believe in the Slovenian People's Party that the time has come when we should seriously ask ourselves how to proceed. But we have to clean up the politicians first before we can. We could've ended up like this. Dogs don't bark anymore. The caravan — the chosen elite — continues to take a steep step forward. Let's stop her, please. And the proposal, Mr Minister, to deal with all cases in accordance with the Constitution, laws, for all equally. I emphasize, for all of the same and prove it with your actions. And one more thing, it was not written by any of the opposition parties, it was not written by Radovan Žerjav or perhaps by Vinko Gorenak, which was written by the top of the Slovenian economy in his booklet, where he cited the 13 requirements of the Slovenian economy. And you will not believe it, the Slovenian economy in this summit requires the rule of law as the first requirement. The economy requires the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u25	Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the topic of this point, the DeSUS Group will not elaborate on the detailed assessment of the work of the Ministry of Justice or the Minister on the issues raised in the proposal of the Group of Members, which is, as the main purpose of the initiatives for consideration is to be seen. Surely, the proposal for a decision with nine proposals for action proposed by the Group of Members for adoption by the National Assembly could not, in our opinion, be suitable for confirmation. The content is inadequate and unacceptable because the applicants provide information and summarise findings which are inaccurate and therefore misleading. At the same time, they are incomplete, as they leave behind those important facts that could clearly demarcate their claims. Thus, of course, the artificial and unwarranted grounds give the impression that the state of justice is critical, alarming, to have an emergency situation, as the proponents state. Among other things, it is clear that the measures taken by the applicants are also questionable from the point of view of the competence of the National Assembly and its working bodies. Of course, I am referring to the proposal for the content of the last measure, which in an inadequate and unauthorized manner prejudges the assessment of the illegality of the Minister's intervention in the work of the State Prosecutor's Office. The second, of course, is the task of the Constitutional Commission to initiate constitutional change procedures. In the DeSUS Group, we now view the work of the Ministry as solid and in terms of meeting the objectives that lead to strengthening the institutional power and independence of individual judicial authorities in a mutual relationship and in relation to other branches of government. In view of the latter, let me draw attention to the principle of the division of power, which allows, after all, control over one another. However, it has already become evident that the legislator has taken too much of the right to do so, since in this National Assembly we also refer to cases in which proceedings are pending in court at the same time. With regard to the legislation already adopted in the field of justice, we believe that it has already made a positive contribution to improving the effectiveness of justice, which has also been reflected through the rationalisation of work and, at the same time, by increasing the quality of the substantive work, in reducing the level of judicial backlog and increasing the efficiency of the judiciary and law enforcement authorities. In the future, the Ministry has said that there will be improvements in the legal and sub-legal solutions, which will also further lead to respect for the rule of law and not least to increase public perception and confidence in the work of the judiciary, the prosecution, the notary and the lawyer. Indeed, there are cases where the rule of law has failed, where it is stuck and why it is necessary to study thoroughly, as there are control mechanisms. Only you must be instigated and the responsibility of those who have failed in their work should not be questionable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u27	Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. The issue of the judicial system in Slovenia could be discussed for sixteen hours, but I will limit myself to just a few cases. One point, one. The police are conducting a preliminary procedure, which is repeated during the investigation phase, and this is a trend which is intended to end the investigation and the police decide everything under the apparent control of the prosecutor. Mr Fisher Zvonko is also a candidate for the Attorney-General. At the main hearing, the police findings are merely repeated by the fact that police officers come to court in the status of witnesses who are personally and professionally interested in the outcome of the proceedings. Judges tolerate this and slowly become guarantors of police work, while not being able to verify whether what the police say is true or not. Secret agents are questioning the curtain, with a changed voice, and they don't even know who the witness is, because this person is showing the documents that are arranged to the judge, and the judge doesn't even know who it is. Therefore, only the police are believed in in the criminal proceedings; the judge only formally writes the judgment. There is no distance between the police and the judiciary, just as there is no distance between the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior. Another time. Investigative judges shall normally issue house investigation orders in stock for up to 30 days. However, the house investigation should be an urgent investigation, which must be carried out as soon as possible. So what is the purpose of allowing the police a 30-day deadline for the house investigation? It's the intention of the police to set up or plant evidence. They can do this with the help of agents, secret associates that no one controls and are not accountable to anyone. In 30 days you can pack a lot of stuff and then it's just a premonition of criminal proceedings. Therefore, investigative judges do not work legally because they allow the police to arrange evidence by their actions. Prosecutors also give the police free hands to engage the number of undercover agents involved among those the police intend to indict. Secret observation should be done by documenting events, cameras, cameras, but it's not done and it's believed in the word that she saw something. Cops write it down, and the courts don't have those who do secret observation when it comes to tactics and methods of their work. Third point. During this year, an event occurred at the Ljubljana District Court when the President of the Court allowed the police to operate in secret and when the court, which later tried the case, paid a police secret associate. Right after that, this President of the Court was replaced because he illegally controlled the phone of the head of the penal department. The spouses of the Supreme Judges wrote letters of support to the unsuccessful candidate for the President of the Supreme Court, Mark Šorli, and addressed these letters to the general meeting of the Supreme Court. The judges of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana are writing anonymous notes against their colleague, who is running for President of the District Court in Ljubljana. This is all done by people who decide the fate of citizens of Slovenia and who should know what is right and what is wrong. The judges shall not carry out any medical examination prior to the performance of the function, so they shall be less tested than candidates for motor vehicle drivers. They impose prison sentences, even though they did not spend a day in Slovenian prisons, where they would be familiar with the conditions of stay and the fate assigned to those who send them to the Age. Fourth time. There's anarchy in court. First degree courts work under the influence of the police. However, the task of the higher courts is to find a way to confirm that judgment that came from the Court of First Instance. It is necessary to verify the number of judgments repealed in 2007 and 2010. I submit that the number of summary judgments has decreased by at least 70%, which is, of course, the result of the joint action of colleagues at the first and second stages of the permanent mandate. A while ago, I suggested we call it off. In the Slovenian National Party, we have proposed the abolition of the higher courts in Cyprus and Celje, and this proposal will be repeated until the competent authorities find that there are no conditions for the independent functioning of these courts, because the judges of the higher courts are too connected with the first instance courts, from which they are staffed. The Criminal Procedure Act is becoming a simple guideline for the work of judges who do not bind judges. They are bound only by a permanent mandate and collegiality, which is why justice must be completely overturned. Judges in the higher courts are aware that they have actually become the last instance of the trial, so that an individual can exceptionally achieve this by showing his problem to the Supreme Court. Therefore, these judges at work are non-chalant and do not delve into the actual and legal issue of a particular case. Fifth. The number of detainees is increasing enormously as if it were an institution of compulsory detention for all those in the process. In Europe they do have more detainees than we do, but in Slovenia the number of prisoners who are citizens of Slovenia has doubled over the last few years. In foreign detention, however, there are mainly foreigners, and for us citizens of Slovenia, the court claims that they are unsuspecting and are kept closed until the end of the proceedings. No one wonders the price of the fact that our neighbours have found how successful our police want to be by accepting and leading all the procedures that have been initiated in South America, Serbia, Italy, and then the court has ordered detention for these people and, of course, here is where the punishment is being passed, instead of the state beating up suspects who have committed acts abroad. We don't do that. We've become a European prison. Teachers can say that filming treatments does not run as they should. The ministry has spent more than €4 million on recording hearings, and this recording does not work or is being processed at an even slower pace than the recording was taking place. I would now like to say a few more cases about the work of our prosecutions, and I will only deal with a few cases from 2004 onwards. We have filed a criminal complaint against Milan Ironman for a crime of abuse of position or official rights. Nothing. Then we filed against Andrea Richter because she approved 7 million dollars for a translation of the Koran, which was not actually made. None of that. Then we filed a complaint against Matjaž Hanzk, for he aroused hatred, called for the burning of women, or showed his affection for those who killed and burned women in this way. Nothing. Then we challenged the company Finali Trading because it was unauthorized to collect toxic waste containing asbestos and it was not treated in accordance with the rules. All together, however, was rejected because there was no reasonable suspicion that the suspect had committed the alleged crime. And we accused the Council of Bohinec, Andrejo Richter, Mirana Stupica and Dragan Matič, because they destroyed one ton of historical weapons, but the District Attorney's Office said, "The sentence is dismissed because there are no legal signs of criminal record." But what's interesting is that the D.A. triggered a prosecution against me on the basis of this, you're going to find me guilty of insinuating these people. Very interesting. The Slovenian National Party then initiated a criminal complaint against Italian fascists who, during World War II, killed in the territory of today's Republic of Slovenia and against whom the United Nations Commission for War Crimes in London registered the application for war criminals. None of that. Then, due to the suspicion of damage to state property, we filed a general navigation case. Well, it's nothing again. Then we filed a criminal complaint of abuse of the official position against unknown police officers of the Murska Sobota Police Station, who arrested us when we painted Slovenian stones and did what our police do not hope, and what our courts do not defend and even less our government. They restricted our freedom and so on. But the U.S. Attorney's Office, the prosecution is dismissed because there is no reasonable suspicion that the defendants should commit the alleged crimes. Then we filed a complaint against the responsible person of Koren Sports because they wanted to do something in Tivoli, I don't know what to do, an adrenaline park. They were cutting trees up and down, ODT said, "The sentence is dropped because there is no reasonable suspicion that the above-mentioned crimes were committed." We then visited the method of Kokola and Otto Luthar and Miho Trampuž, and Dragan Matić, because the Italians were "shanking" an extraordinary book, the first book of the Lutenian Tabulatures of Giacomo Gorzanis in 1561. But the D.A.'s office, the criminal charge is dropped because the alleged acts are not crimes and so on. Then we again filed another criminal complaint for espionage, because maps from the Geodetic Institute of Slovenia were simply sold for 5,000 euros, I think, Croatia. But ODT, criminal charges are dismissed because the alleged acts are not crimes. So we moved on. We once again came forward for the same matter, but in another way 4, 3 gentlemen from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and again Mr Matić, who was an inspector, a senior councillor, employed by the Slovenian Cultural and Media Inspectorate, because of these maps. Again, ODT, the criminal charge is dismissed because the alleged acts are not offences. Then we reinvested in the destruction of the biotope and the destruction of the environment, the place of Pšičin at Ormož for digging. But again, ODT, the criminal charge is dismissed because there is no reasonable suspicion and so on. Then we gave due to the destruction of things of special cultural importance, because Mr Podreka destroyed a fantastic mosaic on the front of Korotana in Vienna and nothing. Likewise, Mr Matič, who did not intervene in this, is again ODT. The appeal shall be dismissed because circumstances have been given to exclude prosecution and so on and so on. We only have a whole range from 2004 to 2010. We also have a criminal charge against Mr Hanžk, who has been fighting across the Ministry, that he has burdensome material against Jelinčič and that Jelinčič is supposed to steal the National Numismatic Fund. ODT. The indictment is dismissed because it follows from the complaint itself that the alleged offence is not a crime. Then against Dejan Jurič, whom I have presented a whole series of materials. Nothing. Everything is being rejected, because these people are working in a frenzy with our judicial system. Then a criminal charge against Katarina Kresal when she was insulted and bribed with Mr. Zalar. She bribed the prime minister when they thought they'd leave the coalition or not leave the coalition. It's discarded. But there's nothing cast against Jelinčič. Then, not to tell everything, again about Mr Hanzek, who said that I had stolen a national collection and could count at least 30 more similar stories and again ODT, the criminal charge is dismissed. Mr. Hanzek didn't even come to the mediation because he knew what the prosecution would do. They probably told him in advance, "Stay at home, because it doesn't matter, because we're gonna throw it away." But what's interesting is that it's illegal to sit in a museum world. Very interesting. There are at least 30 more cases like this. On the other hand, the prosecution in Kopra filed a motion against me to force a case against him because I had insulted some Kopra prosecutor when I said my own opinion that I would not have allowed him to watch over three sheep because I would surely have lost two. This is a terrible insult, and Jelinčič is in court. I'm in court because I said "gypsy" on one show and the First Instance Court rejected it, but the prosecution now demands my prosecution, but the gypsies physically assaulted me and injured two RTV employees, nothing happened, even though the suit was filed. Mrs Katarina Kresal is offended because I wanted to check and I had to check some disk that I personally believe was framed by her stuff. Of course, the lady is suing me now because she's offended by that disk. I was told you wouldn't think of a place in the department of extreme violence. It seems that cassettes or disks in Slovenia are a terrible thing. In order not to be too long, Mr Minister, you said that I should make at least one good proposal for a solution. My suggestion is to dismiss the majority of prosecutors immediately! Forgive the majority of judges immediately, retain only those who are good, as they did in Romania or Bulgaria. The European Union has welcomed this and is now establishing order in these two countries. Learn something from you, dear Croats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u29	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. Mr. Secretary has asked for the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Chairman. I would first like to agree with what Mr Magajna said. He said, "The state of justice isn't ideal, it could be better." I fully agree with that, and as Minister, I will do everything I can to make it better. When SDS Member Gorenak introductoryly stressed that the Constitution governs the situation of our judiciary, I was surprised, because something completely different was written in the material that was presented - that the Constitution needs to be changed, although it is true that it does not contain anything about which direction. But now it would be good for you to decide whether to change the constitution or not to change the constitution. You're saying economists are talking about clinically dead justice. Apparently, people in this country have very different opinions, some have very radical opinions on the state of justice. I'd depend more on those people who know about justice. These are certainly not economists, especially if I compare them with eminent lawyers, by the way, with what you mentioned, Mr. Gorenak, Dr. Mir Cerar, the new president of the Council of Justice, who is criticizing these same economists in an interview today and saying, "Of course, it is not clinically dead, those who claim to have no idea about the rule of law." Here I must say that I am finally satisfied when it comes to proposals, what to do, I will go in line. You say, "change the Criminal Procedure Act." Let me cheer you up, the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act is ready and will soon be submitted to the government and later legislative procedure. It brings a type of news, brings new procedural powers, especially to prosecutors and also to judges. For the purpose of establishing a plan for the conduct of proceedings on a special pre-trial application, together with the defence and prosecutors. That's not what our marriage is about right now. Together, they will determine which evidence they will produce and when, within what time frame. This pre-trial application will also be a deadline within which evidence of criminal proceedings can still be proposed, not that the prosecutor, as is the case today, can still do so in the final speech. He suggested to the court just before the judgment was delivered, just before the judgment was handed down, no, no, let us take this and this evidence. This will, of course, mean that the burden of liability is passed on to the prosecution on the one hand and to the defence on the other hand evenly, but that it forces them into much greater procedural activity before the start of the trial. This will also significantly shorten judicial proceedings. In addition, we are introducing a system of plea recognition by the accused, which will be able to count on a slightly lower sentence if, of course, the prosecutor agrees and if the court approves such an agreement. We don't have that system. We are one of the few countries in Europe that we do not yet have. The Council of Europe has been recommending this for decades. This is going to be a really big change in the system, which will also require a lot of training for prosecutors in tactics, strategy, skills, how to negotiate, when, what offer to make, what stage of the procedure and so on. It's a really big change. The second proposal you make is a change to the Penal Code. I have to cheer you up here, too. The amendment of the Penal Code is already being prepared in one part, when it comes to the general part of the Penal Code. This general part of the code will go to a professional discussion in these days. A specific part of the Penal Code, i.e. those defining specific crimes, will go to a professional debate in the month of January. As soon as this expert debate is concluded, the government procedure and the parliamentary procedure are again followed. And I'll take you up on that, Mr. Gorenak, when these two laws are in the process of supporting them as well. The Penal Code – as I have already pointed out in the introduction – will bring about some really big changes in the definitions of crimes, in particular those at the expense of public finances. This is where the Court of Auditors, through its audits, has identified a number of problems in practice, and situations that are not covered by a crime description would deserve this. That's one of the cases, but he's not the only one. The Penal Code will also establish, inter alia, material legal bases that we urgently need if we are to introduce a system of confiscation of property on the principle of reverse proof burden, not only of the property and of the benefits that are derived from the crime, but also of the other, if it is of illegal origin. Of course, for such a profound intervention into the right to property of everyone protected by our Constitution, it is necessary to establish a very precise substantive and legal basis first. And that's what we're going to do with this novel of the Penal Code. I hope, again, that you will support this, because without it we will not have the institute that the entire Parliament and Government obviously want. This is the so-called widespread confiscation of property on the principle of reverse evidentiary burden. Next proposal, amendment to the Law on Lawyers so that lawyers do not set their own tariffs. We already have this, so such a change is not necessary. Lawyers don't set their own tariffs and can't set them. They can only propose what kind of tariff this is supposed to be. The Minister must give his consent to this proposal. If he doesn't, the tariff stays the way it is. This has happened twice in my mandate that I have not given such consent. Lawyers have proposed certain changes, including structural changes, not only in raising the prices of their services, but I have explained that such an intervention into the legal rate in this case is absolutely not taken into account. Therefore, such a change is not necessary. Proposal to support the Land Book Act. It's really a hoax, isn't it? He was recently in Parliament and you did not want to support him. But it is political prestige and you want the government or coalition to back up your proposal now. In principle, this would be possible if this proposal were consistent enough, but at first glance, the review of our lawyers shows that it is not and that you have left out all the areas that should be regulated and which are not even possible to be amended now, because there are no articles. Therefore, it is very likely that this law will not be supported. But there will be a short submission of this Land Book Act, according to my information. I hope that that goal that we had will happen, which is that land-based library procedures are completed within 4 days, that they are cheaper than they are today, and that legal certainty is greater for people. With regard to the Law on the Seizure of Property, submitted by the Zares Group, you said that this was the sixth proposal to support this law. I said that this law simply does not establish sufficient substantive legal grounds for establishing them in the Penal Code. In this regard, the Government is also preparing an opinion on this law. According to my information, this opinion of this law, which is currently in the process, will be rejected. The opinion of the Council of Justice is also repulsive. However, this does not mean that this issue will not be settled. Because there will be a regulation, as I said, in the Penal Code and in the special chapter of the Criminal Procedure Act, which will fully address the procedural aspects of seizure or the spread of confiscation. With regard to the seventh proposal you are making to amend the Law on Courts, we will. He'll probably go into procedure in January. We would like to extend the possibilities for the operation of a specialised section on economic crime trials. We believe that, in particular, given the data we are getting from the police, how high the percentage of registered economic crime is this moment, how this has also increased as a result of the functioning of the National Investigation Office this year, we estimate that the institutional capacity of the courts will need to be expanded if we want them to be a part of this matter in the sense that they will reach a judicial hearing and judgment within a reasonable time. That is why we will come with such a change to the Law on Courts, and again then I will remind you of when you said it would be necessary to accept it. However, when it comes to the Presidents of the Courts and their powers, this has been greatly strengthened by the already adopted and established amendment, and this is also very well known in practice, which is why you, Mr Gorenak, are now receiving letters from the Judges because these Presidents of the Courts have begun to deal with the daily results and the monthly results that the Judges achieve in their courts. You know that now. This law has been in force for some time now, and the Presidents of the courts know very well that if there are no results at the end of the business year, they will be resolved, because we have adopted this amendment to the law, that if the court does not achieve the business results defined by the President of the Court itself in the annual work programme, this is an "ex lege" discharge reason. That's why you, Mr. Gorenak, are now receiving letters. With regard to the allegations made by you, the former adviser to the Ministry of Justice was not in my mandate or in my previous mandate, but in the previous time when this famous Mr Dukoff was. I think it's a shame to lose words about grades that related to other times, on times from six or more years ago. However, when it comes to the question of whether judges determine their own salaries, that is not true, this National Assembly has set them up, this National Assembly has adopted a law that has determined the judges’ wages. He did so in the light of two decisions of the Constitutional Court. But it is true that your previous government did not want to do so, so there was a verdict. This has also affected the productivity of the courts, cannot be measured, but the judges themselves say, unless otherwise it has affected a very, very miserable working atmosphere at the time of the strike. This was an important contribution from your previous government to the fact that the productivity of the judiciary was not what it might have been. We had to first establish a normal situation so that this climate could be improved, that now they can speed up the backlogs and shorten the waiting periods. When you mentioned judicial statistics and data on the increase in backlogs, it is not true that we took into account the situation in 2009 in the Government when we drew up an opinion on this initiative. Please take a look at this material of the government and the tables. It says everywhere: Judgmental backlogs on 30.8.2008, on 30.9.2010, 2010, not 2009. The same applies to pending cases and the same applies to compensations. And judicial backlogs are falling. May you also strive to show that this is not true, it is a fact and thank God that they fall. Are you happy that they're not falling? Do you wish they didn't fall? Indemnities are also falling, waiting periods data are falling. And there's something else that I warned you about yesterday. These comparisons of the number of judicial backlogs in 2008 and the number of them today must take into account one fact that we have made the concept of judicial backlog much more acute. If, two years ago, for most of the cases, they were considered to be a backlog if they were not resolved within eighteen months, we placed this border at 12 months and this year at 6 months. In short, we've made the criteria of what this is, in fact, a backlog. This, of course, directly affects statistics calculations. So, if today were to take into account the state of judicial backlogs under the 18-month criterion, as was the case in 2008, when you, the previous government ended your mandate, then these figures would still be substantial, significantly better than they are. Therefore, you must be careful not to mix apples and pears. The economic and financial crisis had a major impact on the waiting period in the judiciary. Strong. There's been a marked increase in new cases. Especially in economic disputes, enforcement, labour disputes, bankruptcy, including family disputes. The crisis has also been reflected in the crisis of personal relations. This has not only happened in Slovenia, it has happened all over the world. These are trends that no one has influenced, no government. Not yours, not ours, not any other. Now, of course, measures should be found to respond to these trends. I mean, if there were no economic crisis, these results would be significantly better when it comes to whether the judiciary is in line with the challenges of the trial within a reasonable time. You mentioned the Jaklitch case. I don't think it's right that we are speaking first namely about people who are involved in the proceedings, and the proceedings are not over. This also comes from a report that the Government has included in response to your material. But I want to remind you of one thing. It is the law that determines how long the property can remain frozen. At that time, the D.A. must process the case. If you look at government material, you will see how long it took the prosecution to request an investigation or to file a direct accusation. I think it's pretty much too much. That is why, of course, this deadline has expired. It's Satex. It's been highlighted several times. This is something our justice must not be honored. This is something that will surely require a reaction from the judiciary itself. Reaction in terms of a very careful assessment of why this happened, what could have been done to prevent this, whether there were any objective obstacles, whether there was a real objective obstacle to the law, the Penal Code and that provision which states that it concerns the statute of limitation in two years if the Supreme Court annuls it before that. By the way, you have adopted this penal code, not we, and we may all have the opportunity to consider this provision in the near submission of the new Penal Code. But I'm sure it'll turn out to be a combination. A combination of the responsibility of all procedural actors, the prosecution, the defence and the court. Very often, mostly so. This also stems from the caselaw of the European Court of Human Rights and also from our Constitutional Court. You've had the Grubelic case, which was supposed to be at home since 1998. We checked with the Justice Department in the middle. We have no record that in this case the court would decide that the convict should remain at home. We don't have that information. However, we have some other information: last year, at the request of the Director of Administration of the Institute, an expert opinion was commissioned by the Faculty of Medicine, a special group of experts, to re-examine whether there are really reasons why the convict cannot continue to be punished. The response of this group of experts was clear: this convict is not medically able to endure prison sentences. These are the facts we have, we have no others. When you mentioned the mediation, you would point out yesterday that I'm not just concerned about mediation, but also arbitration, and that I'm going to some international meetings. You didn't listen to me yesterday. That was in Ljubljana. This was in the premises of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. At her invitation, as Minister, I had an introductory address intended to encourage our economic societies to make more frequent decisions than to argue if they get involved in them, whether through mediation or arbitration. Even in the light of the fact that this moment is precisely the economic judiciary that is most at stake and where waiting times can cause even a particular problem. With regard to the transfer of judges and prosecutors between lawyers, I would like to remind you that we have a very well-ordered ban on the lawyer's representation of the party, if he has been associated with her in any way before he was in his second application. If that prohibition is violated, then it violates the law, violates the ethical rules, and then it's on the disciplinary authorities of the chamber to react. But when it comes to the issue of the prohibition that you have proposed for four years as a kind of foreign sanction for deciding to leave the judiciary at all - because it is not necessary for someone who has been resolved by the Council of Justice to be able to do so only to someone who wants another area of work, and now you would have forbidden him to do so for four years. In fact, most lawyers want to become a prosecutor, a lawyer, or a judge. Most of them. So what are you gonna do now? Close the door? Will we take on the burden of taxpayers and give them financial social assistance? Here the opinion of both the Government's legislative service and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly was quite clear: this would be a violation of Article 49 of the Constitution. Some prosecution against former Minister Sturm was mentioned. I'm sorry, but I really don't know anything about this and I don't care. With regard to the amendment of the Penal Code, it is known that the National Assembly has adopted on our proposal the text as well as that correctly defined by the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court. It is only that it is perfectly clear that minors are also criminally responsible for crimes as well as full-year offenders. But it was a dilemma, and this dilemma did not grow on our herb. This was a dilemma that arose in the courts, so strong that the court even terminated the proceedings and demanded an assessment of the constitutionality of this provision of the Penal Code. At that time, we had to react quickly. The same as we did yesterday when we supported the proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 21 of the Insolvency Act in order to help workers get their way. However, the trial is not yet concluded, nor is it completed at the first stage. But we did it because we thought it was necessary, and that the risk of workers not getting paid is too great, or that they would be too late. It was similar in assessing whether to amend the Penal Code or not. The dilemma was brought before the courts, not us, then we just reacted to this dilemma, so there's no longer any doubt. When it comes to paying lawyers and their tariffs, I have repeatedly stressed that the tariff remains the same as it was. Lawyers have had a number of years, and I don't even remember how long ago, but I think that more than five, six years ago, or even more, a provision in their law that they can agree with a party for a certain prize, which must not exceed 15% of the value of what is being awarded. This is a rule that is not Slovenian to a unique person. He's known to most lawyers in the world. You can also call it "contingency fair", English if you prefer it. The point of this agreement is that it is voluntary. The lawyer and the client must, of course, agree on that. In order not to be mistaken in any way by the lawyer of the party and, in the power that the party signs, to offer such a clause, we adopted a special provision at the time of this government saying that this particular agreement must be a special agreement, a special written agreement. Lawyers have every right to apply this provision, as used during the time of the previous Minister, Mr Sturm. With the bankruptcy managers, where you talk about lobbying and tariffs, I was stabbed here because the previous minister simply didn't notice - I don't want to instill anything bad on him - he didn't notice that when the regulation changed, there was a situation that the awards were not limited to bankruptcy managers. There were boundless awards. Since this was calculated from the value of the assets in the bankruptcy procedure, these awards could be astronomical. As soon as I noticed that, I changed the regulation and limited these awards to bankruptcy managers first up and at the same time also by individual items by about 25% to each item. That's the whole story. That's the whole bankruptcy story. The Internal Policy Committee has also reviewed this story on several occasions and also adopted conclusions. I would like to remind you that one of the conclusions adopted by this committee is that the previous arrangements were inadequate before we restricted these awards. It was inappropriate because it allowed unlimited awards to bankruptcy managers. This is the conclusion. The Committee further noted that it was correct for us to limit these amounts of prizes and that the Government correctly assessed the need for this rule on maximum amounts to be laid down in the law. We did exactly what was necessary. This has been confirmed by the Committee as correct, and you are now putting this into question in this paper. Now I'm gonna show you something else. Look, this is a graph of how these payouts paid off by bankruptcy managers. From here on out, when I set the lower amounts, look how things went down. The Red Column identifies the legally awarded awards to bankruptcy managers. These amounts have been sharply reduced. That, of course, was our goal. If you call it bad judicial policy, then I don't know what's good. The prosecutor's office. Now I can say, the infamous Berglund thing. You keep saying that it was about interfering with policy in a specific matter. But don't tell me what's important. We have not been involved with the smallest part of the activity in assessing whether it is right or wrong to prosecute or not to prosecute a person. That's not what we're interested in, and we're not interested. However, we wondered how the prosecutor’s chiefs in charge of the prosecution acted in this case because they filed the files up and down and took away one prosecutor and gave it to another. This, of course, aroused a number of doubts and suspicions. But when we were already on this issue of political interference, it was in this case that the Finnish court rejected the hearing of this person, Mr Berglund, and, inter alia, wrote that because it could be a political crime. The Finns assessed it. When it comes to anonymities that judges are supposed to write. This is of course of all regret, but the question is whether this can be prevented. It is best not to give such an anonymous person the weight that some have recently given. When it comes to claims that high amounts were spent on various official travels at the Ministry of Justice. We have done one careful analysis and made a comparison for the last three years, as has been the case with these costs. The last three years have also been to reject the comparison that you have pointed out to Storm: Zalar. Let's see how it went. Official travel, expenditure, 2008 when Sturm was still EUR 544 000. In 2009, it was me – EUR 277,000, half the size of it. The year 2010 to 31 October – €181 000. Official travel logs, 2008, under the previous minister – 111 000, 2009 – 96, 2010 only 31 more And so on. The same trend for all items, from hotel services, representatives, air tickets costs and so on. Please stop making such painful comparisons. Neither I nor Minister Sturm went abroad on vacation. We went to work! This is our legal duty – we must attend meetings of the Council of Ministers, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe, we must attend international conferences, we must attend bilateral meetings with other ministers. Thus, Slovenia must position itself as a regulated country. And you say, when there are 60 Members, I won't say, your herds, that's what you said, your customers, your customers, and then we'll be the state of law. I'm not going to say we're going to be a dictatorship then, but I think it was an inappropriate comparison of what we're here for today. I must also agree with Mr Žerjav that priorities are needed, particularly in criminal matters. Precisely for these priorities, so that prosecutors don't spend so much time chasing so-called wealth crime or thefts, if that's possible, more comprehensible. That is precisely why we are going to amend the State Prosecutor's Office Act to give them priorities and to make it a priority for economic crime. I'm not going to talk about the Bulmastif case, either, because the prosecutors warned us yesterday that the case was open. Among other things, they have refused to cooperate on the committee, but some Members still wish to discuss open forecasting and criminal proceedings. This is the worst thing you can do for people to trust in the functioning of justice. The worst. I would suggest significantly more restraint on this issue. When it came to the exposed position of the Ombudsman. We can all afford lawyers. Everyone, including those who may not have the money to pay them, for that's when the state sets them up. Place it in the context of a free legal aid procedure. Slovenia has an extremely low censorship in this respect. If you compare with other countries, you will see how high the price has been set by other countries for someone to receive free legal aid. This means full free legal aid for advice and representation throughout the proceedings. But when it comes to controlling us judges, there was also some talk, in this exposed report of the guardian, that there was a need to strengthen this control. We can only agree on that. That doesn't mean that this surveillance doesn't work. I got the following information in the middle. That we now have one disciplinary procedure against the judge, that we have two completed – I speak for this year. That in one final measure the reduction of wages had been imposed, and in one, the judge was acquitted of the charges that several judges had left the court after the disciplinary proceedings had started, we do not have accurate information as to how many, but we are assured that there have been several such cases. Last month happened here in Ljubljana, in the Ljubljana Court of Justice. Next. That the Presidents of the courts have recently submitted several requests for an extraordinary assessment of the judicial service of judges. This is what I said earlier that the Presidents of the courts exercise these powers and that they know what responsibility they bear, and that some of the judges have been recently dismissed because they have not done their work properly. So it's not possible to say that the system isn't working. Yesterday, however, I pointed out that it is obvious that the judiciary alone does not hang these cases on the big bell. That is why I do not accept Mr Žerjev's statement that no one in Slovenia has been in charge of justice. This is not true, and not according to the information that Mrs Žerjav has, but says, at least it is not, it is also heard because I have spoken about it now and because the media recently reported on a prosecutor who immediately lost his job when it turned out he was caught in a corruption, allegedly corruption crime. I was struck by what Mr Žerjav proposed in the end. Because one deep misunderstanding shows what is the task of justice policy and what is the task of prosecutors and courts. He said, "Minister, consider all cases in accordance with the Constitution and the laws and for all the same." I do not deal with any case, out of 1.45 million cases in Slovenian courts, the Minister does not deal with any case. They're being dealt with by prosecutors and judges, and this invitation can be addressed, but please address it to the right address, not to the Minister. The economy rightly requires the rule of law, but the economy will also have to do something for it. Because the economy enters into business relations and if someone does not pay, does not comply with contractual obligations, it may rely on a long period of time before it is obtained by enforcement of its assets. This does not mean that justice can solve all the problems of this world because it cannot. Business culture is very important here and the economy can do much to manage business risks in the initial stage when it enters into business relations. Among other things, how does he create clauses in contracts that say what will happen if there is a conflict. I would like to reiterate my recommendation. Let the economy refer substantially more than ever to contractual arbitration and mediation clauses in the event of a dispute. This allows for a really quick solution. Really fast solution and also quality. At the same time, this will also mean unloading the judicial system. Then it'll be a lot easier for all of us. I know that some also have personal experience with criminal justice. I do not wish to comment on this, nor do I, on the claim that all judges are acting unlawfully and that the majority must be dismissed immediately and all prosecutors. I think it's just a matter of unserious suggestions. But there's something I'd like to draw your attention to. Anyone who lodges a criminal complaint, anyone who does not receive notice as to what happened to this criminal complaint, should know that this criminal charge is obviously being tried. Only if the defendant receives a decision from the prosecution that the complaint has been dropped is this situation, which means that the prosecution has completed the procedure and the prosecutor can take over the prosecution, can he take over the case himself and bring the case to trial. In all other cases where feedback is not available, however, the judicial authorities shall carry out their task. Thank you for once.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak responded to the replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Very briefly to complete you, Mr. Secretary. Yes, Mr Cerar, President of the Council of Justice, said that the rule of law was not clinically dead, yes, okay. Please be consistent, tell me what else he said. He also said: 'The rule of law in individual segments is falling or does not work.' Well, I agree with him, because I didn't say anything else. I told you he had cancer, that's what I said. And you claim to be in the best condition. But the President of the Council of Justice is demeaning you. The fact that the land book doesn't have articles, I agree, doesn't have those articles that you wanted to give 10 to 30 million to lawyers and notaries. And he has some other mistakes that we're going to correct in the form of amendments. That's all it is, that's what you need to know. If the letters of the judges result in the fact that the Presidents of the courts are making them more workable, I will be happy, even such interpretation can be taken, I will be happy, but when those numbers that you are talking about the dismissed judges, the reduced salaries of the judges and so on, are significantly higher, then I will believe that. Of course, the National Assembly has set wages, and before that, the Constitutional Court is the judicial branch of power and not to deceive. The statistics are also clear. But if you take the statistics you're talking about, you're going to shit yourself with a feather that belongs to Dr. Sturm. If you take the data in August 2008 forward. In August 2008, he was also a minister, the first half of 2009 acting on the inertia of Mr Šturm. Don't worry about it, let's take a look at the data for 2010. It's strong enough to be named after him. Yes, why do you work to say that one citizen was, yes, if I saw in Finance that this is Mr Jaklič, why now should I say that one citizen was, leave the nonsense. You tell the judges if they do anything wrong, yeah, where are we gonna put them? To the employment office? Yeah, that's right, where those from Moore, Prevent, Mercury go. They have to be put there. Because those of Moore, Prevention, Mercury are not to blame, and those of them are to lose their jobs for false reasons. Thank God it's a social work centre, but thank God they can have a replacement. They should be the same to all citizens. And you want them to be lawyers and nothing else. Let me draw your attention to the following. You've already checked the Grubelich case at night, and I'm grateful that you checked it out. But, look, you just texted something. You let me know if you steal a factory and you have a find, you won't go to jail, but if you steal a chicken, you can still be so sick, and you'll go to jail right away. That's what you texted. So, 12 years of gentleman walking the world because he's got a clue or something. Let's move on. The blacksmith, Auer. So, if you don't have a chance, then the President of the State of Mercy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u33	Mr. Gorenak, it's time for the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u34	Thank you. Just one more question: When and why did you let Secretary of State Schuštar go despite the fact that Kori prison was opposed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u35	Thank you. He made a statement on behalf of the proposaler, Mr Grims. The Minister will be involved whenever he wants to.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u36	Silence is sometimes very eloquent, too, so I will consider it a positive answer. I certainly help you with your humor in my discussions. This is in line with the principle we knew in the past when it was often said that things were too serious to be dealt with in a very serious way. If today I took the Minister's edge and the Vehemence to death seriously, then I should be horribly afraid now, because yesterday in one joke, when I said an English sentence, I issued a central government operating guide, a central password as the most guarded state secret. I hope that doesn't make it any worse. There's got to be some fun. I'm going to go uphill, from more humorous stuff to less funky stuff. First, I'd start like this. This debate has so far shown two that both old wisdoms, known by Slovenian human tradition, are still valid. For the first time, every beggar praises his little one. And secondly, the whole crow doesn't understand the hungry. Previously, in one of the coalition's discussions in the opening part, it was said that this was an adventurous time when peace and tranquillity must be in souls. Yeah, if things were really that simple, I totally agree with him. First, however, it is the duty of the State to establish a level playing field for all people. Look, I was talking earlier about small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, but now let the colleague or if it is possible for the Minister to explain the peace that that owner of a small or medium-sized enterprise should have at this time seek money to pay his employees' salaries so that their families can have a nice Christmas and a new year, but this cannot be done because the inactive judicial system and the blackmailing of large partners cannot pay for the work already done, for the work already done or for the product that he has already delivered in accordance with the existing contracts. And when he goes there to claim his money, they make fun of him, "What he's suing us, and then we'll expel you, and you'll never be in our system again." What can he do? In a normal functioning legal system, we know what would happen to such a large company that is blackmailing. He'd be facing bankruptcy. Personally, all those responsible there would answer with their property, and in the end, they would file another criminal complaint. In Slovenia, however, when you mention financial non-discipline and the possibility of bankruptcy, it is almost incomprehensible that you connect these two in your discussions. It just tells us how far away we are from the developed world, from the democratic values of the United Europe and how ineffective the legal system really is. If there is then talk of peace and it is forgotten about these cases, because we obviously have citizens under A and B, unfortunately, it should not be, even under the Constitution it should never be, then it is only proof of the fact that the whole crow does not understand the hungry. It was very interesting to hear that, in the context of legislative amendments, it would also be proposed by the current government or by the current government, or by the seizure or confiscation of property, in accordance with the principle of reversed burden of proof. Great. I would just like to remind you that not even a few months have passed since we discussed the European Act, the European Directive, which touched on this particular issue, right here in this Chamber. This same government, ladies and gentlemen, has expressed its reservation to such a solution and I have personally proposed and the SDS has supported me in this regard to withdraw that reservation and you have voted against it. In short, in the words of one, in the actions of another. It's important to make an impression. But I have to say, there's something else we've met. A wheezing with foreign feathers. When it comes to whining with other people's feathers, I must say, they're all models in this government. Not only did we listen to ourselves taking credit for things that were actually set up from the previous term. But not to do anything wrong, to warn anyone that these comparisons are, it was those numbers that I already explained in the opening part, what they really mean, that are exactly as credible as what the Minister of Interior now claims publicly: "Look, during our term we have substantially reduced the number of dead on the roads." Yes, but good morning, not because of this government, but because of its policies, because in 2008, vineyards were introduced in the middle of the year. Traffic ran, ran down the highways. Traffic along local and regional roads is safer, the number of serious accidents has decreased, and the number of deaths has decreased. And you're preparing to end the vignettes and the death toll will rise again, but you've done so that it'll probably hit the next government, which will then probably be the on-call culprit in your words for the deterioration of the security situation that you're going to be cooking by yourself. The notion of witch hunting is also very interesting. It's a term that the minister used in a loud voice. A witch hunt because we have a debate here today? Ladies and gentlemen, parliamentary control over the executive branch of power is one of the democratic foundations of every democracy and is also enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution, in its legal standards, and therefore this debate has a direct constitutional and legal and commercial basis. And to define it as a witch hunt, it only says that the one who says it is simply not a Democrat because I don't believe he doesn't understand because I think he's a smart, educated man, but he's simply not a Democrat at heart and that's how he's defined himself. That's true, I'm arguing with the next one. In the meantime, the Justice Minister suggested that the referendum was a waste of money. The referendum, ladies and gentlemen, is a constitutional institution in Slovenia. It is a constitutional institute, which also has special dimensions, which the modern constitutional profession makes very clear. It is the only effective means of limiting power in the context of modern parliamentary democracy, because each government has a majority in Parliament and is a referendum, i.e. the direct decision of the people, the only effective means of effective control, the actual balance, to actually restrict power. Without the limitation of power, however, no more power can be called democratic. Moreover, the modern constitutional section of the referendum sees as a special form of division of power, perhaps some of you did not know it, but believe it; we can go down and get a textbook and show it to you. Well, if we didn't go too far, I would go back to some of the claims that have been made here. Look, the minister has expressed a desire to talk as little as possible about the Bulmastif affair. I certainly understand him very much. In this regard, it is possible to find many things, and I am not talking about the affair itself, but about the conduct of specific bodies, of which I believe that the present authorities are terribly uncomfortable to speak. Just look at the last case, which is why, by the way, jokes are already circulating so that the Justice Minister can remove that blind virgin from the sign and set up one bulmastiff on that shield. By the way, what happened? Last Monday was a television show featuring some facts by journalists and others. We have now been informed that this matter has been reopened. I'm asking you very nicely where we came from in this country! All the institutions of this country have not been able to discover in all these months what several journalists discovered in a few days and presented in that broadcast. Yeah, well, is there something wrong with all of our investigators, with all the law enforcement agencies, with everything that's really wrong? Are they all so inept and incompetent that all journalists can put them on ice in a few days? Probably not. It's something else. I firmly believe that our law enforcement authorities and all the other institutions we are talking about today are yet to be trained. It's just a question of wanting. The question is therefore political will. Clearly, it was not in the interest of anyone to conduct an investigation in a correct and consistent and comprehensive manner and then to take appropriate measures to bring things to an end within the justice system. It is interesting that, if I add up some news from public information sources, informed in the last year, that it was in this bulmastiff affair that the brother of a minister allegedly made a grave professional error, some even wrote down that he had broken the law, I don't know, I don't want to judge. But interestingly, according to another news, he was later appointed by the present same government to be a reward for some fabulously well-paid position somewhere in the European Union. If this case is known to the Minister, I would like to hear the justification for such conduct. But it's a very interesting reward system in this country, and I have to say that. But I'm not surprised.Look, if this is how parliamentary supervision is done, then it's called witch hunting, even though it's a constitutional norm. After all, this is what the same government, whose minister named us all the last time. You know, I'd rather be a member of the herd than my hair being the most protected and protected secret of this country, that's what I have to say. But it's certainly a form of hate speech, if anyone hasn't noticed, and if ministers are already doing it, then it's something we should all be worried about. But apparently no one cares, no one cares. Certainly, the fact that there is a justice minister in such a government explains a number of things, but of course it does not excuse. So this is the situation and that is why this debate needs to be held today. Because at least one clear signal has to be given to all the institutions of this country that, irrespective of the apparent current lack of political will, they should carry out their work in a professional manner and in particular in accordance with the laws. Because at the moment, the government isn't the one who would be the engine, but it's actually the glass in the system. I have to say, I'm sorry, I am.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u37	Thank you. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! Today, of course, once again a long-standing debate, where we will hear many things that we have already heard and yet do not explain what we are actually dealing with today, a problem that is mainly about the fact that the proponent of this point, namely the Slovenian Democratic Party, has interfered with parliamentary control over the executive power by parliamentary control over the judiciary. And that's obviously what we're talking about today. Some understand the Parliament and the counter from which they perform and afford sermons at the expense of the judges as an opportunity to intimidate this same court. It is not likely that this is happening almost parallel, at the same time as the President's statements by the largest opposition party, which warns and warns that the takeover, totalitarian takeover of the country, will take place, that repression, personnel cleansing in the military, etc. What does that mean? It has already been clear in some debates that the Slovenian Democratic Party is aware of the ferrets and the risks that the rule of law will finally fail and that the rule of law will finally begin to work where the public, including citizens and citizens, expect something to move. Look, I'm gonna give you some concrete facts. There is an indemnification trial in connection with Luca Koper. Indemnity proceedings concerning Intereuropa are under way. A remarkable trial is being prepared in connection with the Patria affair. So, what's better than calling a meeting and trying to prove that judges don't consider judges corrupt or that judges are subordinate to political interests? And one part of the prosecution, of course, is that part of the prosecution, which is not in the best interests of the opposition's political party. Please, today is an attempt to intimidate the judiciary in Slovenia, and unfortunately also from this National Assembly we all allowed ourselves a serious setback before yesterday. We have deprived the immunity of a judge who has tried one of the Members, and unfortunately the majority in this National Assembly voted in favour of the removal of this immunity and thereby has taken another blow at the expense of the independence of the judges, and these same judges who will judge the tycoon tomorrow, the politicians in corruption affairs, in criminal matters or in damages have, of course, received a clear message from this same legislative authority, which is arrogantly performing and wants to discipline the judges. Be careful, judges, what you will do with us, with Members, with politicians, with presidents of opposition or coalition parties, with great tycoons. Be careful because you may experience withdrawal of immunity and perhaps suspension. So let us be honest, be honest, and be aware of what we are trying to accomplish today’s debate. Today's debate is just an alibi for delegating the judiciary at a time when this judicial authority finally becomes operational. Acting by the rule of law and that is only the purpose of the proposer of this point. While I, as a Member, am indeed very pleased that the applicant has included in the argument for this meeting our proposal for the Law on the Seizure of Unlawful Property. I look forward, of course, to the Government's response, but not in due time, immediately, because the seizure of illegal assets is one of those legal steps that the European Union is also promoting and which are working in the fight against organised crime in some countries and that is very effective. Let us, therefore, settle these matters as soon as possible so that our proposal and the proposal of a good law will not become a spoil of debate and speculation by the opposition party, who is trying to evaluate the importance of the judiciary and the judges today. I, behind this counter today, express all respect for the judges and judges who hope to do their job. I would not want the public to be impressed after this debate that we are leaving the judiciary and that we, as Parliament, and this temptation, are always present, especially with the SDS, to take over the role of judges and judges. What the street says and what Comrade Branko Grimes says is the law. Of course I don't want to. In a country where the law would be reduced to these two items, I do not want to live, and I hope that we will be able to consolidate the pillars of the rule of law and also the clear role of all three branches of government. If that is not the case, of course we will continue to witness such and other debates, which very much remind us of what is happening in our Western neighbour. There is also a phenomenon called Berlusconism, where they try to silence the independent judiciary so that they can adapt legislation and the whole sphere of public personal interest to some of the leading politicians. So let us expect it to be quite tense in the coming weeks. It'll be very intense. Trials, important trials will begin, there will be evidence on the table, and then an alibi will have to be found, a motive for preventing the judiciary from acting. On my part and on the part of our Group of Members, all support goes to the judges, their courage, and we are in favour of setting the conditions for their independent and unhindered work. And I hope it doesn't happen again, that we're going to take away a judge or a judge in such a light way as immunity. This is an instrument for the protection of highly exposed institutional figures. These are the judges who take risks in their work. They're putting themselves at risk. We've seen this a lot. Without this guarantee, they would be exposed to various pressures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u39	Thank you. Well, although I have no intention of restricting the debate, as President I am obliged to point out that the topic of today's item is the state and work of the judiciary and not the state and work of the biggest opposition party, the Slovenian Democratic Party. So much for your knowledge. Mr. Majhenič has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. "What's next? We are at a crossroads as to whether prosecutors will be independent and responsible in the pursuit of crime or only state officials who will be ordered by their bosses, who will be persecuted and who will not." That was Minister Zalar's statement to the officer of the evening. Prosecutors have to be independent, this is the constitution and the law, and that he will do everything in his power to do so. He was very determined and convincing, Mr Minister, who, in his statements, pointed to the pressure of prosecutors who did not deny this in the debate when the prosecution's report was being considered. Moreover, it has been said that such pressures have never been experienced by prosecutors in their careers as they do today. We ask ourselves very rightly: Who is the source of the pressure? That's not what anyone said. The media reported that the prosecutions were ineffective after 2008, especially in the prosecution of perpetrators of major economic crimes. It was announced from the Office of the State Prosecutor that during the last year, 30.2% of all persons concerned had been dismissed from the criminal offence of corruption and 24.8% of all persons had been prosecuted. Last year, the prosecution dismissed 73% of complaints filed for corruption, 67% of complaints filed for abuse and 47% of complaints against creditors, taking into account the procedures that followed the old and new Penal Code which entered into force in 2008. One thing is obvious: there are far more unsolved cases than those who have taken the lead. The year 2010 was certainly marked by a lot of efforts made by the Ministry of Justice to deal intensively with the prosecution and less with judicial proceedings, where judges are obviously more independent of their decisions, but given the large number of judges per population in Slovenia, which is three times more than in neighbouring Austria, are not effective. Judges have increased sentences and payment classes too much time, rather than the work for which they have always been paid fairly. According to Minister Zalar, we have 1.5 million trials this year alone, over 900 thousand. It is obvious that if the number is correct that we are the most conflicting society, everyone who is a full-year-old is suing except children. I don't believe that's true, because I'm sure there's some kind of crime involved here, but it's a concept of itself. But there is something certain: Since this is not normal, something will have to be changed. In June, 40% more cases were brought before Slovenian judges than they were seven years ago. Free aid applications have increased by 35% so that costs go to millions of euros. Last year, €4 million was spent on free legal aid, and in 2011 it is expected to take up a total of €8 million in legal aid. Free legal assistance shall be decided by the President of the Court and may be regular, extraordinary, exceptional, special, urgent and so on. This is a somewhat simplistic matter, but it is quite a large sum of money from which lawyers serve well. Since there are many conflicts, mediation has also been offered, which has been promising, since we are expected to solve more than ten thousand cases each year. Thus, all the first-degree courts in Slovenia were obliged to offer mediation from 15 June onwards. I believe that this is a good move, which appears to be a success, especially in the area of family and economic disputes. The mediators were also duly rewarded by the minister when he advocated the advantage of mediation. There are many outstanding matters, so something had to be done to make something different for the ear. So in the middle of 2000, they remembered to move on to a new way of measuring outstanding matters. The courts are now measuring the cases in the so-called judicial backlog. Oh, the new one would have the expected time to solve things, so it's kind of waiting. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Magajna has the floor to prepare Mr Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u42	The situation in the judiciary, how to evaluate it and assess that these assessments would be at least approximately objective? We have statistics, which we obviously explain in our own way and purely subjective viewing experiences. These estimates are moving today from summarizing the position of young economists, the right is clinically dead, to the assessment of the Minister himself, justice has been in the best condition of the last 15 years. If we were to come from the last statement, this meeting today would not be necessary. Yesterday, however, on the Committee on Foreign Policy, I highlighted other issues that may not have been raised in this comprehensive material, payment non-discipline and non-payment of social security contributions already mentioned several times today, the reverse burden of proof. Undisciplined and non-contribution paid, of course, is not just a matter for this ministry. They are inter-ministerial, but, as I have already mentioned many times, I am surprised that, with all this wealth of experts and even good proposals coming into Parliament, including by Members, the Government cannot and cannot solve these matters. That's what I'm worried about. That's what's really bothering me. That's what I'm worried about. I don't know if there's any external expertise needed. Let's just look across the border a little bit north, how they have arranged in Austria, or we could get a good example there, why we've been so long that these things don't work out, and we're doing so much damage. This is unbelievable to me or as I said before, there is a lack of political will here. The same for the area of non-payment of contributions. It was said that this matter would be resolved by the future pension law, which apparently is moving away. The measures should be approached immediately today and there is much knowledge and knowledge, only to avoid being used. Another such general observation or feeling is that we have a country of two legal orders, one for elites, the other for citizens, or that we are a country of two kinds of citizens. Now this feeling can also be very personal, but that I will not just go to a personal level, the case of Baričevič - Meglič has been mentioned several times. Indeed, a person cannot get rid of the feeling that Baričevič was involved in the orchestrated orchestrated case. Obviously, we will also discuss this issue in the future. This is also a matter in progress, namely Ram Invest, and the surrender of premises to the Ministry of Interior, which is the building of the National Investigation Office. 136 000 Euros of rent when this company acquires a substantial amount of money from this title alone a month, as the cost of leasing is lower than what this company acquires. Why didn't the government just use this form of lease and turn it over to a private firm? Here, too, it is suspected that there are personal connections and, as in today's Work, respected lawyer Miro Cerar wrote: "If there is a strong alliance and corruption alliance in political and capital summits, then no police officer, no prosecutor and no judge can do their job." And that's what we're warning you about, personal relationships. It is said that since Slovenia is so small, we cannot avoid these personal connections. As we know, Minister Zalar is a good friend of Mr Pogačar and Mrs Katarina Kresal and that this is an awkward situation, even if someone is exposing these personal things, but we are talking about the system in the country. And here I'm going to be beside myself, Andre Zalar, quoting Andre Schifrer, saying, "It takes time for friends to take their time, to rejoice." [[...]] For friends, it's only the best." That's a warning. That's what we're afraid of. And one proposal, as Mr Zalar said, come on, come with suggestions. My proposal to the government is this: to consider, as it has already considered in 2008, is it good that the same party, LDS, has two such important resources, repressive, in fact, the ministry in its hands? These are possible multiple connections. The Baričevič affair just shows the possibility of these links between investigators, between prosecutors, between judges, between ministers and the government reconsidering. And without me now calling for someone to be suspended, only these ministries should somehow be staffed a little differently, that there is not within the circle of those, as Andrey Schifrer said, to be friends. If this proposal were to come to the fore, perhaps one of the purposes of this meeting has been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr Petek has the floor to prepare Mr Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. As we heard on the committee yesterday, we have heard several times that we have a beautiful legal state. But I ask you: How can this country be beautiful, how can this rule of law be beautiful if we have so many injustices? And these are written about by the media day after day, and we read about these injustices day after day. Yesterday, even today, we heard the Minister's decisive claim that we do not have two legal states in Slovenia. Maybe so. I could have accepted such a claim myself, and I would have said, "We have one legal country in Slovenia, but we have two types of citizens within this legal country." First and second-class citizens, of course, following the analogy of the President of the country, who shares themes in Slovenia on the first and second-class topics. Of course, citizens, who, even the criminal and stupid laws we adopt in this House, respect them, respect them because they are so educated, and we have citizens who simply bypass these laws, do not respect them, play them, because this allows them their position in society, on the other hand, also money and capital, so that they can afford the best lawyers. This first category of citizen of ordinary people and these are the majority in Slovenia, which respects laws almost as much as Plato, but have such morals, values, such that they find something unacceptable to them that they do not respect laws, that they do not pay their bills, that they do not pay their bills, that they do not pay their taxes. But we have other citizens who simply don't know these kinds of morals. They have learned that it is worth breaking legislation in Slovenia because nothing happens to them. However, in case we accidentally catch any big fish in Slovenia, the question is what will be the epilogue. However, if there is a legal conviction, he is finally the president of the country who can do all of this. And of course, we can also include in this category the example of the Bulmastifs, who were said not to talk about here today. This case has been revived in recent days, in some ways already legally buried. And this case has more faces than the rule of law. First of all, we have to deal with some monstrous social pathology in this country, of course within Slovenian political, economic and other elites. In this case, it is necessary to separate this tragic case, death with all due pieta. On the other hand, we must not go beyond the reasonable suspicions of dog abuse and related crimes that have not been explained so far. The matter was about to close pretty quickly and clean up under the rug. Thanks to the press, at least temporarily, that's not the case. I regret that in these months, almost a year or so, there has been no clear condemnation of this event from the ruling coalition. That's the suspicion of animal abuse. We could read in the newspapers, Americans are used to a variety of events in their country, that even they were shocked by what happened in Slovenia. In short, we missed the public condemnation of this event by the ruling elite. A public conviction that what happened was simply not right. And with all sorts of tricks, she wanted to cover it all up instead of saying it wasn't right. And by doing so, the ruling coalition sends an interesting message to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, in short, that it is no longer able to judge what is right and wrong in this country. But the ministers are talking about herds. The President of the Government of the individual Members shall refer to them as 'turnovers' and so on. And that shows that the moral rating in this country is very low. Every fifth Slovenian lawyer, colleagues and colleagues is in the lowest income class. And if you look in the parking spaces in front of the courts, with what kind of cars they bring there, then the conclusion is quite clear. We must therefore also ask ourselves which people we recruit to the highest places in Slovenian justice. At the time of the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court, there was a desire to return to the old regime, which apparently made some feel very domestic. And it's understandable that some people want this home environment, the local hearth. This appointment by Mr Masleša shows that Slovenia is far from modern society. I wouldn't talk about notary and notariat because we said more about it yesterday. The minister was misled when he abolished the town of Notary in Ravna. But I give him all the credit, and he quickly learned this error and returned the Notariat to Koros and returned the Notary city to Ravna in Koroška. With regard to bankruptcy and bankruptcy awards, there is also a talk in our material prepared for this session. I welcome the reduction or limitation of the excessive awards of bankruptcy managers. However, this public forecast for the reduction of the prizes was due to the fact that in 8 working days the Slovenian courts paid bankruptcy for more than three million euro prizes. Such a public announcement can be taken in some context, if you share the spoils and around these bankruptcys, you might say something else in this National Assembly. In particular, it is a variety of connections between insolvency judges and if you look at certain bankruptcys and, of course, these bankruptcys, there are hundreds in Slovenia, you could find a lot of interesting tycoon story. In short, bankruptcy assets are very cheap to sell. First, the company goes bankrupt and then sells it for small money. The Minister also called on us to submit certain proposals. Good. I will propose one proposal for myself: for one day, let us send the Slovenian judiciary to bankruptcy and then place it on new, healthy foundations. Since the minister is a very intelligent man, I also know that he is reading literature, now that he has not yet been able to read the latest books by Boštjan M. Zupančič, First of the dry cows, I really recommend this book. In it, Mr Boštjan M. Zupančič says that "the crisis of Slovenian justice is also in his feminisation", and that no revolutionary cell would put me in a foyer, I will quote Boštjana M. Zupančič as follows: "the inefficiency of feminized justice and feminized health care are so-called crawling disaster," page 163. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Kolaric has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! When I reviewed this material for this session or earlier for the Internal Policy Committee, I had two dilemmas: first, is this a debate in the judiciary or is it a matter of some kind, would I say, a little interpretation against the Justice Minister? And secondly, is it not just a review of the work of the Committee on Internal Policy, Justice and Public Administration through the eyes of the opposition? In fact, if we look at this material, we see that all of the things that we have dealt with at the Committee's meetings, which have not received sufficient support at the meetings, and, of course, have now appeared in this material as material on the state of Slovenian justice. Personally, however, I think that this material is inappropriate for discussion and that part of the legislative authority is exploiting and highly judging the state of justice as well as the work of the Minister. Of course, it is very nice to discuss the issue of justice, since it is said to be in a court of law sooner or later. After all, there were about a million and a half cases in court last year. Which means that if at least a couple hundred thousand were resolved, at least a couple hundred thousand were again dissatisfied because they lost in the courts, and, of course, anyone who has any objections, or to the police, the prosecutors, the courts, and that is why it is certainly a topic that, at least some think, brings mainly political points. Sadly, though, I personally feel that this is doing great harm to justice. Especially are those who say that there is a catastrophic situation here, that the rule of law is clinically dead and so on. This is said mainly by those who have already had the opportunity to lead this debate, but of course after a few months they have stepped down and are now giving us advice on how to lead a country, what is the state of justice, energy, in a wide variety of areas, because they are known for everything. Of course no one will think I think everything in justice is great. However, I think that, above all, those working in this area must build up courage, work quality and eliminate irregularities that also occur in their work. So that I will not support the material, as well as the conclusions that were put forward on the basis, otherwise we have rejected them on the Internal Policy Committee yesterday, so I think we will also reject this material as inappropriate. I still believe because I am an optimist, in the legal country in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u47	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich has the floor. He's not here. Mrs. Purgatory. Get ready, Mr. Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I introduce my debate with the warning of my fellow Member, Darje Lovtizar Bebler, that Slovenia's slide with the Economist is due to a low legal or political culture. And this should be a clear warning enough for all teachers of democracy to be aware of certain things even in today's debate. There were a number of those who quoted the conversation with the President of the Council of Justice and chose various passages, but this debate today specifically relates to my opinion of this part with which Cerar ends the interview. A minimum of a decent and responsible policy is also a prerequisite for the establishment of a high-quality judiciary. This is said to be a dignified and responsible policy because all of this is included in the context of the need to say that it is not possible for the judiciary and the situation in the judiciary to be excluded from the general social context. Justice as part of the entire social system depends on politics, economy, education and culture. The countries where the judiciary would flourish and everything else would slide down, it simply isn't, and it can't be. These are things that should be considered when we speak so casually and some even compete as to how they will express the situation more graphically in our country. We have also heard that the rule of law is clinically dead. When I am looking for an argument to prove that I believe in the rule of law and that the state of Slovenia is a legal state, I can also refer to the President of the country who says that one aspect of the social crisis is also less confidence in the institution and this smaller trust of the institution, not to say to the intentional collapse of trust in the institution, we are often also present in the National Assembly. This is a serious concern, especially for those who preach democracy in this way. Here, the president of the country said in an interview: "The denial of court authority or mockery, even vulgar expression at the expense of the judicial institutions of society, harms society. I strongly reject this and call on all those who participate in the public debate to understand our joint state institutions as our common good. If we continue to weaken them, we will harm ourselves." That is why I am taking the floor in this debate because I do not want to participate in the deterioration of state institutions that allow us to be a rule of law. And I will now refer to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which warned us that those who wrote the material for this item in the agenda were very flagged and very easily used terminology, also talking about the prosecution's organisation, although we know that the technical term is the state prosecutor's office. At the ninth proposed decision, they were also advised, however, to be aware that a legal remedy is appropriate for all of what is the basis for this item of the agenda, in fact the Institute of Interpellation against the Minister or the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation, not some discussion all on average. Let me tell you how double-minded those who teach us about democracy are. If the accused is a visible representative of the policy or if the indictment is filed against him, then the political structure is behind it. At the same time, the same terrible accent makes us feel that we have two legal states. Well, since I'm on my own in this paper, I'd like to warn you of another duplicity. When talking about the Minister's political pressure on the prosecution's organisation, I think that, in this building there on page 31, the materials composers are disgusted with the violent attacks by MPs and MPs from the coalition on the prosecution. But, excuse me, before that, one of the MPs said that the task of the National Assembly was also control. At that time only the 7th session of the Committee on Internal Policy addressed the report on the work of the State Prosecutor's Office. Under the law, this treatment must be carried out in Parliament. And as far as I can remember, but you can read it in a magnetogram, I did nothing but read what was written in the report. I was, of course, convicted of attacking the State's Attorney's Office, but earlier it was said how we should take care of supervision. Duplicity as much as you want. When that was not enough, then we had two more meetings of the Internal Policy Committee, urgent, of course, about political pressure on the prosecution. But if I listen to what the Minister is saying about the political pressure on the state's prosecution, it is also possible to know this and to tell the Minister that he is trying to do what is essential to the state's prosecution. This is also to prepare a new Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which is to be adopted shortly. Everything I've just said just confirms that we have a very low political culture. As far as paying the bills is concerned, we would also find some among us who do not take it for their obligation. And that someone could benefit from doing some work before the law was established, they would also find cases and even find names and surnames for these cases. So I think that this meeting has completely missed its true purpose, because we are talking about things that are politically motivated, but do not have the right form to do so, as the Constitution gives it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Saiovic has the floor. Get Mrs. Zupevc ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. In Slovenia, it will certainly be much better for all taxpayers, when we assess the effectiveness of justice according to legality, justice, independence, efficiency, not political colour, left or right, because thieves have some, under the terms, higher objectives, which do not have colour or client orientation. Of course, there is much to talk about today, but I have less than two minutes. But also in this story, it is true that those who have no sin to throw a stone first will surely be better than those from the opposition, because I could count a bunch of cases with names, names and names, which, of course, still concern and touch them, but of course I will not spoil the debate with such trifles. We have a lot of work to do in this area. Members and Members should first start adopting better laws, clearer, more transparent, more effective. This is the first part of our mission. On the other hand, when it comes to the common good of the country, it does not share as it is today, but when it comes to constructive good proposals, it is possible to unite and move forward for the good of all. These are the essential things that I see as the highest priority. First, where we failed the exam, we certainly did not complete the gun trade alone. Next big for taxpayers, taxpayers too expensive a story, end of denationalisation. There we legally made such biscuits that our children’s grandchildren would also have a headache, especially a wallet. And there's more to talk about, but my colleague and I have agreed that the time we have left is a fair share. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u51	Thank you. Mrs Župevc has the floor to prepare Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I hope that we are now accompanied by many citizens and citizens. Why? Because it is clear that lunchtime and lunchtime are clearly a bit of a fall for the rule of law. The debate that has been shown today by Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party tells the most about themselves and confirms the well-known saying that the attack is the best defence. It is necessary to attack the Slovenian judiciary, on the average, because the Slovenian judiciary is apparently after the wrong people. Not only that, the Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party made a plastic statement in his opening discussion, which is very important for this debate. He was talking about political pressure on justice, and I quote, "especially on the prosecution." I repeat, "political pressure on justice, especially on the prosecution." I'm sorry, but it can't be a pleasure to the concrete prosecutors who defend concrete politicians, but it can be even less proud of them. According to the SDS, it is therefore necessary to protect the prosecution, in particular I believe, the Attorney-General's Office, in particular the Attorney-General, who is obviously vulnerable, and so clearly the SDS Members, are calling for the protection of policy. I think you'll understand better if I quote the words of the same Attorney General. This is from a speech she gave a good year ago on the prosecutor's educational days. I quote, "We expect policy not to raise questions about why we prosecute certain perpetrators of crimes to the detriment of certain victims. Such issues, as we have experienced this year, represent a grave pressure on the independent and professional organ of the Slovenian State and show disrespect for the prosecutor's institution." Members of the SDS called today in this Chamber: "Hello, Mrs Hrastar". They addressed specific prosecutors, specific judges, and I believe that today, for a while now, we will have to address some specific criminalist, what we should do, what they did wrong, and, above all, what case we should deal with and not deal with. I agree with what one of the members of the Slovenian People's Party mentioned in his debate. He said that people want to end violent affairs. It is true that media stories, large arrests and, last but not least, extraordinary meetings on ongoing criminal and predictive procedures create high expectations and often remain undetected what happens when the cameras go out when the story disappears from the media. In the case of the Clean shovel, for example, the criminal society responded, saying: "We know that many people are being tried for serious forms of economic crime, not ending with a conviction, which undermines the sense of the good functioning of the rule of law." But big stories create high expectations and results, as has already been said, trigger subjective assessments. They will always be pleased and always will be those who will not be content. I imagine that what the Attorney General said applies to all policies, both on the left and on the right. Not just for one client, but for everyone. Yesterday, as an investigative committee, we also filed two criminal charges. Why am I bringing this up? Because one of the legal authorities responded publicly after the commission brought two criminal charges against the competent state prosecutor for misrepresentation and said "that he probably knows better the definition of the crime of guilty confession than the politicians who run the commission." Let me say this. Sometimes it would be better to keep quiet. Politicians, when criticising law enforcement authorities, prosecuting bodies when criticising lawyers, and not least when criticising politicians, might be better off judging by actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Kikelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, when we discuss the state of justice, we can say with certainty that the thesis put by Minister Zalar when he spoke to some of the presidents of the courts a few days ago and the the thesis that today we have the best state of law in the last 15 years is missed, unrealistic and false. Because this thesis is a mockery to Slovenian citizens, it is offensive to them, because it underestimates their sense of discretion, to look into matters, because all public opinion polls show that this is not the case. That citizens are literally desperate because there is no protection of the rule of law and justice for small people and any protection and cover for the consecrated. As a result, of course, there is a substantial, much more accurate thesis of prominent economists, Damjan, Masten and Polanca, and other issues that are written in that article, but this thesis that the rule of law is clinically dead. They spoke mainly of economic crime, money laundering and corruption. When we are faced with a hundred million sums that have disappeared from the tycoon banks, and none of these are processed that the minister can say that this is the best situation in the last 15 years, we can be appalled by citizens and say, here again, here in Parliament. Today, in my opening statement, the Minister has crossed the rubicon of what a minister of a government can afford to speak at the expense of what should be discussed in Parliament and what should not be discussed. The Minister has literally threatened Members of Parliament. What we should not talk about in our previous discussions. That's not why the minister's been called. That's what the judges should say. But if the Members crossed, they crossed the bounds of the permitted. Among other things, in this opening presentation, the Minister said that no one in this country was untouchable. No longer untouchable, he stressed. They're so untouchable, and so and so consecrated. 'Cause that's what we're hearing about, uh, the statute of limitations of Satex. But there were no high-ranking bankers there and all the others who, with the power of capital and the oligarchy, so that the trial was delayed and obsolete. And the minister again threatens us: talk about open matters. This case is buried. They will pay 24 million euros as much as the revalued value of this money will be paid by taxpayers. It is not 11 million, the revalued value is 24 million euros. Cases tell us that they are untouchable: Jaklič, Socius – Peklar, who will also soon be obsolete, and all is working on it, not least Mr Jankovic. Years ago, an indictment was filed because a million euros had been issued by the Mercator for the protection of the Maximarket to a company that does not exist or does not have a license to do so. He was a fictitious business, he's in court, and he's not going anywhere. It's untouchable. And from the inviolability of some, we are most told that Slovenia has slipped in this democratic index published by the London Economist. And it didn't just slip on this index, on this scale, but on this slide, I have to say that in defense or excuse, why it slipped, and where the reasons are, some have lost judgment and this is extraordinary professors. Mr Strain says Janša and his government are responsible for this, but this is the indiscretion of an extraordinary professor after three years. We also fell on the press freedom index, the level of corruption, especially to mention the human development index, this is the cumulative index where Slovenia fell under the Czech Republic for the first time. It's the first time in history. A well-known left-wing academic said, however, that now he sees that it was a mistake, that it was against lustration, because, if it were lustration, and it was stated by the left-hander, then Slovenia would not have fallen so low, and now, today, the chiefs of the Udba from the background have the decisive power to recruit in the judiciary, to recruit in the banks, to recruit in the economy. This is why Slovenia is sinking, and unfortunately justice is not capable of internal power. No one in the judiciary and not in the Ministry feels responsible for offering a waiver in the event of outdated and in this grave case. In addition, Dr Urban Vehovar, a former member of the Anti-Corruption Commission, said that these grey men, grey eminences and said: " Dr. Goran Klemenčič, President of the Commission, should be replaced as soon as possible because he is irresistible because he seems to be genuinely being persecuted. If he doesn't, we'll call him crazy." It's from the innermost circles of classified information, apparently. Mr Minister, let this situation be defended, Mr Minister, when he also attacks, as a fault of Parliament, that the Land Book Act has fallen and I do not know what, it shows very clearly its profile and its commitment to what justice is taking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr Kikelj has the floor to prepare Mr Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u56	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. I must say that I listened to today's debate in almost the same form on the committee yesterday. So I wonder if there may be no sound in this building, because, if I see it correctly, the proponents have been saying some things that they have mainly summarized by media contributions, and Minister Zalar is answering them with tables, numbers, statistics, and nothing. Your dynamo, which arouses mistrust among people, continues to work. I got the feeling I'm attending a stand-up comedy today. You are discussing matters that are the subject of a court, namely, other branches of government, not the legislative branch of government. By exposing individuals, businesses, institutions only black individuals, you arouse distrust of the complex system. You claim some or most, even in the media today it was somewhere to notice that the rule of law does not work, that it is even dead or at least, that there are two and that all these indications relate to the mandate of the last government, the last two years. But I don't think I'm the youngest here, but everyone else's memory goes back to the '90s. Do you remember what happened when there was no extraordinary session on justice? From the D.A.'s office, writing machines disappeared, which were chronic evidence of an affair, you know, the Depal of you. Who was responsible for the prosecution at the time? It is well known that even then someone did not agree with the conclusion of this episode. Then why didn't you call an extraordinary meeting? I think it was just as much a problem. Why didn't you call an extraordinary meeting on justice when all the arms affairs procedures were out of date? Everyone says the arms affair is the mother of all affairs. It was nothing back then. One of the famous politicians would say, "Nobody's got anything." One of the previous speakers cited many cases with names, surnames. During the session, I even received text messages from one of these limited people, why we lie here in the National Assembly, why we make false allegations. There's been a lawsuit, a specific person has filed a counter-indictment for false testimony, nothing has happened again. But with specific names, it was operated here. I don't think that's our role. I would like to mention another matter, here we are both with the Vice-President – I think – we somehow know things because we come from Vrhnika, mentioned by the IUV. The Vrhnika leather industry, mentioned by you, I think that Mr Gorenak, in his main performance, has entered a crisis in the mandate of the previous government. Why did she go into crisis? For one year, the task was to change the supervisory board, the management, in between, the company was waiting for what would happen. A famous Englishman who came from the finance ministry came to the administration, which is said to have been sent by the then finance minister as a savior, followed by millions of euros for the resolution of the IUV. What was the end of it? The company's broken down, and this money didn't even come, as we say at the Supreme, to the factory. The Englishman has disappeared, the procedures are now, they also say that the prosecution has no influence, but apparently, given who was accused, they would have looked the other way, not at us. You quoted Dr. Mir Cerar several times today. Most use it when they like it and only those cuts that they like. But I will quote him directly because I read an interview with him on the Delo website and he concluded his interview with these sentences: "Policy would call for a soberer, more realistic and balanced reflection on the situation in justice. There are certainly problems, but there are good practices and we must keep this good core alive and build the future of the judiciary." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Ribič has the floor to prepare Mr Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! How many people today feel alone in Slovenia, in their own country, abandoned by those who should be helped, given support, protected their human dignity, human rights and civil liberties? Everyone remembers last year when I started to warn and ask first the Ministry of Agriculture and then other institutions about the correctness or irregularness of returning dangerous bullmastiff dogs. By the way, these dangerous dogs have between 60 and 80 kilos, and if you have four of them in your apartment, it's a time bomb. In the Bulmastif case, the journalists then asked me if I was under any pressure not to deal with the matter. I must say that there was great pressure at the time by the Ministry of Agriculture, as well as elsewhere. At that time, I also met with the then minister at his request, who convinced me that all the procedures for returning the Bulmastifs were legal, legal and just. I've even been funny about what you do with bringing back some puppies, like you don't have anything better to do. But I knew I had to do everything to keep people safe from these dangerous dogs. The end of this story is familiar to us. Now it sounds like things are starting to end. However, Mr Meglic is here, and these same dogs bit him years ago, almost killed him and left him with the consequences of his life. And he's still cheating, and he's proving that he's going to have a period of justice for him too someday. When? We see the Court as the last guarantor of justice and justice. Recognizing that there is no justice in society is among the most powerful causes of discouragement, depression and suicide. People with more sense of justice, such as the Slovenian people, are tragically experiencing the resurgence of the idea of justice. Your Honor! When I think of these pressures, I still feel them, and I still feel them today. All those who have committed great fraud, robbed the country, illegally produced a lot of property are on the loose. No one tells them that they have to return the property, the money to the state, the pension fund, and so on. Nothing. I'm afraid to talk about it so something won't happen to me. Is this a legal state? Is it true that this country is run by a network of legal lobbyists who find any wrong excuse? Until when? Is that why we wanted our own country to be destroyed by some educated people who are not worth living? God help us!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Frangež has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u60	Respected and respected! I will also begin with that statement by the motioners of the meeting on a clinically dead legal state. One of the things that I value in the great days of our country's independence is not only the unity with which the political will of this nation has been achieved, but also the fact that this independence has been built in law. That it has its foundation in the rule of law, not only as an entity of international law, but that it has founded its statehood on legal continuity. We then did not decide on the revolution, but on the fact that this country was created in a legal manner based on the Constitution and laws. And this is the source of this rule of law. And when someone with ease speaks of a clinically dead legal state, remember that he condemns the country with death. For me, this country cannot exist unless it is a rule of law. Of course, we can talk about the fact that this rule of law has its major weaknesses. They stem not only from the functioning of the judicial system but also too often from the arbitrary conduct of the State itself and of that legislative body. The president had previously reminded one of the discussers that this was a debate on the state of the Slovenian judiciary and not a debate on the operation of the biggest opposition party. I cannot agree with this intervention, because I think, as I may have thought in a series of discussions at the various extraordinary and urgent meetings of this high house, which had only one purpose. And this is the generation of a further erosion of confidence in the country, in the rule of law, in its institutions, and not least in the democratic and legal capacity of this community of ours to resolve the problems in which we have found ourselves to solve the problems of this community. That's why I have to look at it differently. This debate today is just another continuation of the story of where we come from tolerating irresponsible policy, where we come from, if political objectives and political struggle are subordinated to everything, including the truth, including dignity, including respect for the institutions of the rule of law and the country in general, as the most pronounced external signs of the fact that we are a State, that we are a community that has decided legally to coexist together, and that we also set common rules for this co-operation for this co-operation. Justice has linked, blind eyes, but must have a calm hand in judging the scale of righteousness and an open and good heart. I think that when we share very difficult judgments in this Chamber with ease, especially on one side of this Chamber, too often the lack of a political culture, which is at the same time often referred to as a lack of confidence in the country, respect for this country, respect for the democratic decisions of this country and this nation, then I really wish that we, too, would ever have a connected eye, a slightly more peaceful hand in assessing social problems and a much more open and fair heart. I know that the reference to such topics is always again, and I have already pointed out many times that these debates serve nothing but the internal political needs of the most opposition party, who consistently follow this whole mandate The theme is better for us, the worst for the country or vice versa The situation in this country will be better for us. This is a perverse logic that the biggest opposition party has put into practice the entire mandate and is worth all the convictions. We are approaching the holiday days when we will also celebrate the twentieth anniversary of plebiscite, the expression of our independence and unity. In these days, I would like to express a little more compassion, patience, and kindness. Without contributing to a little more unity in this political space in the face of social problems and in the face of each other, we will not be able to overcome the great challenges facing this nation. I'm sure of that, and we're moving slowly forward. Slowly, despite all the blockades, all the traps and all the attacks, including the opposition, we are trying to solve the accumulated problems of this society and we are successful in many things. Not as we would like, not without mistakes, but with one good will he tries to look behind the political struggle and behind the political interests and wonder what we must do to do something good for this country. Statistics are just one of the terms. In the judiciary and in the judiciary, it will be very difficult for us to agree to measure its success only through statistical vats, because it is a much more important question whether its conduct is lawful and fair. However, when I read the material, when I read the data that he has read in his excellent and decisive performance today, which I congratulated him for, Mr Minister, I cannot help but overthink that we are moving things for the better in justice, and that the wrong impression is that the rule of law has ceased to work. I will say again, this is an extremely dangerous impression, which you inspire with great enthusiasm, which, unfortunately, I should be allowed this time to get even with the media space, and the media are also successful. I don't mean to say that everything that happens in this country is fine and fine. Unfortunately, there is something wrong, but I think that if we continue to demolish the institutions of this country, which are here to prosecute and sanction these things properly, we are doing ourselves a damn bad favor. I will once again oppose my behaviour when voting on today's conclusions so that the country will always be on the backdrop of internal political interests, but not doing what needs to be done in this country to make it better for all of us and for the common good.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr Germić has the floor to prepare Mrs Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. I will say myself, I am listening to the debate yesterday and here today, of course I am asking myself the question of my role as an MP, how to carry out this mission, to which we as Members have not committed ourselves as much as any minister has signed. Therefore, to strengthen the institutions of this country in a responsible manner, to make a responsible contribution to upholding the independence of the three branches of government. Today, I am listening to statements that we can very quickly find that they are incomplete, that they are targeted differently than what was said, and in this way miss the point that someone in some context has said or written. If we take this responsibility to have a legal state, and I have strongly supported and supported the views of this party, that the only right path, the legal path and, of course, when today we are talking about defending on the one hand the direction of this country leading to the rule of law for two groups of people, for averages and for some elites, I cannot, of course, get rid of the feeling that we are taking everything into this campaign because, on the other hand, the weight of the big fish is being caught. If the purpose of today's debate is, of course, to raise doubts about the institutions that should bring these cases into the epilogue, and here I agree, and also here I place the Minister on my heart, that, of course, all these commitments that he has also made today will be strengthened by the Special Prosecution Unit for Economic Crime, that, of course, there will be a law that will make it possible to reverse the burden of proof for all those who have not acquired property in a fair and corrective manner, and that, of course, in these cases, it will be clear that the words spoken here by the Minister will not only be words, but will also be confirmed by the actions to the rule of law and the Republic of Slovenia as a legal state will be regarded as all that must be the message also from this [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u63	Thank you. Mrs Irgl has the floor to prepare Mr Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, Honourable Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, Mr Frangež, who said earlier that the media are inciting the misrepresentation of the wrong image of justice. If Mr Frangež had flown well through today's press, then he would have seen that, since yesterday's five hours of session, when we have discussed the state of justice in an excusable manner, not one single sentence has been written. Not even that the meeting was held. Of course, there was a lot about freebies on several pages, and that's true. But this is always very well covered in our media. I'm not going to figure out why, but this is just the reality in our media space. Maybe it's really an order. That wouldn't be weird if it was. But I will begin where the Honourable Minister of Justice ended up, in his opening remarks, where he said that a good proposal on justice should be made. If I am not mistaken, colleague Vinko Gorenak has made seven very good proposals regarding the improvement of justice all the way from amending the Criminal Procedure Act to amending the Law on Lawyers. We have also talked about this several times at this meeting or at a meeting of the National Assembly and also at the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. But if you'll excuse me, I'd like to make you a suggestion. Perhaps it would be good to consider if someone else might take your place, someone who might have more hearing and feelings that things are actually not going as well in justice as they should, and that everything is not as pink as you would like to introduce us. Yesterday, we listened to you for about an hour in the Committee's opening remarks that almost everything in the judiciary is idyllic, and that is not the case. It is not a problem that we have the best facilities in the courtrooms, as you said in the introduction. That's not the problem. Thank God we have them. The problem is that things and procedures do not actually move anywhere, even when it comes to people near the political left. Here we have serious problems, and people see this, even if you're still, I don't know, throwing eyelashes, that it's not like that, but unfortunately the fact is that even the last analysis, the polls show that people are extremely dissatisfied, including with the judiciary and even with justice in its entirety. I am of the opinion that it is very good to have this debate today on the situation in the judiciary, to have a debate on the political impact on it and, of course, on measures to regulate this situation. Above all, I think that we need to talk about this because we have recently witnessed a very interesting human resources venture in justice. It is important that we are in this country today in a situation where the country's two most important bodies, or ministers, are headed by a very important representative of the LDS. Thus, one party controls the judiciary and the internal ministry, and of course, the desire is also to dominate the prosecution. It is interesting, however, that this party, in its referendum campaign, has often been identified and had great words about the rule of law, the social state and respect for human rights. But the serious question is: how long has there actually been from this state of law, which you, the well-respected minister, claim exists, and that in this country we are all equal before the law? I would also like to ask: How much is actually left of the social state and how much remains of respect for human rights and democratic standards? About a year and a half ago, I pointed out that there is a drastic decline in democratic standards under this authority. Of course, in coalition parties, they smiled, smiled, and laughed, but today they were also warned by a foreigner. Today, Slovenia no longer belongs to democracy, but to half-democracy. Although the question of if we ever had that real democracy in Slovenia, it was probably more apparent, but today we were told in fact even abroad. Perhaps it is right now to think seriously about such a situation, not to say that we speak only in the opposition, but also foreign experts warn. Of course, it is no wonder that we face such a situation in this country, if we have or are experiencing Ertli, Masles, Fishers, Titus’s roads, and so on. Dear Minister, yesterday, and again today, you said there are no two states, it is said, one for elites, one for ordinary citizens. Maybe that's what you're thinking because you're looking from another angle because you're closer to this elite. But believe me, people who barely spend a month actually don't feel like we're living in the same state of law where everyone would be the same before the law. On the one hand, we have individuals who do not even have a basic decent survival, and on the other hand individuals who are enormously wealthy at the expense of the state and who are even very close to the Prime Minister. These are very important comparisons showing that the situation in this country is not good and that this is certainly not a legal state and even less social, although this is enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Let's just look at the affair that has been expressed several times today, and it should not be too much to talk about, the bulmastif affair, but it's good to talk about it, because it's actually a real school case where the rule of law has completely canceled. The fact is that, especially under this authority, some have more rights because they belong to a social elite that is strongly linked to the political left. Very quickly, the return of dogs to the owner was carried out, although all the control institutions proved that dogs were dangerous and that they should not return to the owner and that they could cause new attacks because there were good acquaintances, connections between people, it happened and it was extremely fast overnight. Otherwise, when Mr Meglic took only what belonged to him and was his right, because his life was finally touched, the trial mills were grinding extremely, extremely slowly. I don't know why. This is not a legal state for me, but at least this country where everyone would be equal before the law. The Ombudsman also asked himself publicly at the Ombudsman's report in October this year whether we were still a social state or still a rule of law. The Commission on Petitions and Human Rights and Equal Opportunities has also dealt with these issues on several occasions. The Ombudsman has pointed out a lot of delays despite the Lukend project carried out in the previous term. The backlogs are still here. So, justice isn't so pink though. The Ombudsman also draws attention to dissatisfaction with the work of judicial experts, points out the dissatisfaction of people with the work of lawyers, points out the inequalities that take place within the country. That is not what we are making up in the opposition, but people who are in key positions in this country are alerting them. These are people who have some weight and are committed to protecting the rule of law, the social state and respect for human rights. And they point to exactly what we are pointing out in the opposition. Of course, we can't get past economic crime. The fact is that all indicators have shown that Slovenia has covered economic crime limitation and that police and judicial cooperation and other supervisory functions are poor, and political interference with the work of the police is a major problem. Yesterday you said that the judiciary had led to a number of cases of economic crime. These percentages were extremely low, but something was done, but in the majority it was the chicken thieves to be persecuted, but first it was necessary to take care of those who brought this country here today, where we are, but these are not persecuted. There's another criterion here. The fact is that the results show that so far the judiciary has not had or dealt with a specific case of economic crime that would come to its fingertips. Where's Vegrad? How's the Talum? Okay, Talum, we know it was a conflict of interest, but since Taluma's first man is a member of the Social Democrats or their member, of course nothing happens, that is clear. What's the matter with Mercury, Beer Shop, Istrabenz? What about the Ljubljana mayor's questionable affairs? In short, there are a lot of things here that don't come anywhere. Unfortunately, personally, I cannot say that we live in a country that is equal to everything and that it is a country of law. Here I would like the answer again from you, where you see these specific cases, not to list the hot thieves in the case of AMZS, which need to be persecuted, so there will be no mistake, but some concrete big case of reflection, as is the case in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Nigga. Get ready, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted colleagues and colleagues! I must admit that I have been thinking about whether I would have stopped by today at this meeting, given that I am not a member of my parent's working body and that it is not very nice to fall into the work of another. However, it has been said so much and given that I have thought and read one thought, that reflection is work and that thought is action and action is work, but I have decided only to say something, especially because our legal and legal service has given a rather bad opinion on the prepared material. Why are there such situations that we need to constantly find that some of the materials that we have here in Parliament are at the heart of some democracy, we accept on the table and we deal with them. Why such weak knowledge or weak reasoning? Democracy is certainly a complex process, a complex matter that we must all learn. We must learn to be patient, to communicate, to listen and to listen, and to learn to see. And not least talk to each other and make a deal. As such, democracy is a process that will last and will last for a long time, given how long some of us are able and willing to learn. It is clear that the cradle of democracy in Athens and democracy has matured in the golden period of Athens and that we are now in a time of crisis and that this crisis is manifesting its power or power. And if, let's say, with some argument or assessment of democracy to mark this material today, I could say that it's not power and not power, but perhaps even the expression of powerlessness. However, given that the arguments of the minister and of others who spoke today were quite strong, I will read the idea of gold, namely the truth: "The truth is not made up of parts. The truth is only one, complete and inseparable, and is such in all times, in the past, in the present and in the future. We can compare the truth with the other one. If only one brick falls off, the whole side collapses. The counterfeiting and counterfeit coin was adopted in 99 stores. But they won't accept him in the hundredth." That's what Mahatma Gandhi said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Petan has the floor. Here comes Mr. Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! First, I would like to ask the question that has already been raised to the Minister today: Is it true that Mr Šuštar has been released from prison? That's the one who was at his big soy headlights, I don't know if he deserved that kind of thing, but it doesn't matter. Now he's going to end his sentence. According to the data, the information we have that he was supposed to be released, despite the fact that the commission in prison, where the sentence ends, was against. You, Mr. Minister, are supposed to, so I'm asking you, I should have ordered him to go free. I don't know if that's the case. So I'm asking you to let us know that we'll have the right information so we don't charge anyone for unnecessary. So, was Mr. Shuštar really released to your intervention? Now secondly, I, too, thought of this classification of an English economist, who is made up of a scale of democracy. Here is Slovenia, when it has barely reached the stage of complete democracy, it has already fallen among countries that do not have complete democracy. And certainly the general situation in the country and certainly the situation in the judiciary also contribute to this. But the fact is, I also agree with the fact that the rule of law is at a funeral. Of course, some help more, others help less. I'm sure. I am also sure that we have two legal states, one for those who belong to the so-called lobby which have access that others do not have and those ordinary citizens. Last but not least, we can come to this scale if our president is to deploy citizens between first-class and second-class. They're second-rate people who don't want to talk about. These are the ones who were killed after II. a world war without trial or a revolutionary trial. They don't want to talk about them. They're second-rate. But first-class, I don't know if it's the ones who killed them? Secondly, it is also certain that if the President of the country himself is classifying citizens as those who need to be given another opportunity if they make a mistake and those who would not give them the opportunity. So it also helps to make us a country that slips down in democracy. Then we're surprised and we're looking for reasons where they don't exist. I'd just like to comment on the following. Yesterday there was information in the media about the reverberating process - I hope you will not forbid me to talk about a particular matter. That was in the media, and I'm not gonna make anything up. I'm just gonna read something. It's a bold trial against a drug dealer's company in a cell district court. It is the citizens of Slovenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Algeria and Kosovo, where a lawyer of accused 60 times called a crown witness to speak in court. 60 times! If this contributes to the reputation of the judiciary and in the judicial branch, they did not raise any questions about this matter. If this has really happened, and I have no doubt about it, because so far no one has denied what is sad, it is said to be true, but it is even sadder. If that is the case, then we should not be surprised if we are falling ten, twenty cities on all the scales of this moment in Europe or in the world and that we are not condemning such acts, which is the problem, certainly do not contribute to the reputation of the judiciary. But it's not our fault. It's not exactly my fault to influence the reputation of the court or any court, because I just read what the media said. It's not my fault. But it's the people who do this, and nothing moves in the system. That something's going on, that man understands, but that the system that should control it and what to say about it doesn't work. That's it. But I expect, Mr Minister, an answer regarding Mr Schuštar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Justice Minister Aleš Zalar has the floor. Get Janko Weber ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I will begin by building the attitude of people, the general public, not just politics, in all countries of the world, to justice, particularly through two experiences. One is the direct experience that people with the justice system have. The other is indirect, that's the one they only get through what they learn from the media or what other people tell them. First of all, with regard to the direct experience of our people with our justice. An extremely large number of people are turning to our courts. I'm not gonna say it's insane. This is obviously due to a number of causes. We are also a young country, including the fact that people are gradually aware of all the rights they have and can also challenge them if necessary. That must be one of the aspects. Another aspect is that the effects of the international crisis have had a strong impact on situations in which people have found themselves, not only in employment, but not only in the context of payment non-discipline, including family disputes. All of this has had a profound effect on people’s turning to courts. Therefore, it is impossible to speak when comparing data for last year when 930 thousand customers turned to our courts — 930 thousand! – therefore, it is not possible to say that people and legal persons do not trust our judiciary. Because if we didn't trust him, we wouldn't even be talking to him. Apparently they trust him, apparently they have high expectations about what they can accomplish in the courts. The frustration experienced by the parties is that they lose their dispute. If you consider that more than 95% of all disputes, civil disputes, i.e. disputes between individuals, disputes between companies and so on, you can imagine that at least one of the parties to the dispute, when the court decides, is dissatisfied with what is not in line with its expectations. Of course, part of this dissatisfaction stems from this and more than such disputes, and more than the parties who claim to be in court, more is the proportion of those who are dissatisfied with the solution. So the solution is here, but the client is not happy with it. Another source of dissatisfaction is in those parties awaiting judicial review. We've got resources here, we've got roads here, we've got opportunities here, and let the customers take advantage of them where they're not yet. They can also address me as the Minister of Justice. In such a case, the law allows me to request the court to clarify whether there are any obstacles to the slow progress of the trial, and I may also require the speeding up of the decision. The President of the Court may order the judge here to sign the hearing and so on. We have mechanisms that enable this, and those frustrations of people who are still waiting, they are solvable in the way I said, in accordance with the legal ways. Then, of course, we have another aspect of the functioning of our justice. And this is the one that's connected to what the media tell people. The media only tells people about the current, let's say sometimes even the deplorable cases. Today there have been already mentioned examples: Vegrad, Prevent, CT, Istrabenz, Laško, Intereuropa and so on. If I conclude by means of media records, when it comes to criminal aspects relating to the operation of these companies, proceedings are ongoing in all these cases. These procedures are in different stages. With regard to Vegrad, the government has specifically obtained a report from the Prosecutor's Office on how these proceedings are handled and has also been presented. Some cases are in the forecast, some are already in criminal proceedings. So here things are going their legal course. But it's not possible to jump. It is not possible, even though this and this is understandable, that many would have wanted to see justice tomorrow, whatever the case, in the form of a conviction, rejected or exonerated judgment. But there's no way to skip the procedure. You can't do what's coming out of the famous fairy tale Alice in a magical land. First the conviction, then the trial, so let's cut off her head. That's not how it works. Not in the state of law. Every trial, including criminal proceedings, takes its time. There is a certain weighting to be done by the court, and that is what our courts are doing. Of course, and it is crucial that prosecutors decide to prosecute. For if there is no accuser, there is no judge. The roles should be very clearly demarcated. It is the Prosecutor who carries out the first assessment, and only if he considers that it is grounds for suspicion that a crime has been committed, that the criminal procedure follows. So the proceedings are against very, very different people. A little more and a little less influential. But the claim that procedures do not run against people close to the political left because of the influence of the ruling policy on this is an absurd claim made by Mrs Irgle. Because this would essentially mean that the government is overseeing the Attorney General and giving her direction not to prosecute those people who are politically close to this government at a lower level. I think it's more or less clear to everyone that if there's anything absurd, it would be that. Above all, do not expect the Government to get involved in specific procedures. Any one, not this one, not any other one. Because then this is the end of the rule of law. Then we'll have a truly clinically dead legal state. There's nothing politics has to do here. But politics can provide prosecutors and judges with tools to be effective, and we are doing so. Very much our ministry and government has been dealing with the social state, which was also today the question of where the social state is. If I help to define this issue even more precisely: Where is the social state in the field of justice, what has this government and this ministry done in the field of social justice? Let's see, we first tried to give greater protection to the victims of crime and to the most vulnerable social groups in this regard. They're children, they're disabled, they're victims of domestic violence. All of them have been provided with compensation if they become victims of crimes. We hope not, of course, and that this will be as little as possible, but we all know that it will not be completely avoided. In such a case, they will receive compensation from the State directly. Not only you, but also other victims of crime, will be able to receive compensation from the State if it turns out that the perpetrator is unable to comply with a judicial decision or execution, if it is not possible to cut down on the offender's property. In this case, the State will also pay compensation to victims of crimes. We have brought a very important social element into the field of criminal policy. Furthermore, we've changed the Law on Court Fees. We've reduced some of the court fees considerably, significantly! Here, Slovenia is very different from a number of other European countries, which, due to severe pressure on state budgets, have increased their legal fees and are increasing them. I just read one report yesterday from the Commission on the effectiveness of justice at the Council of Europe, which represents the actions of some countries which raise judicial fees because they are trying to raise more revenue in the state budget. We have consciously decided not to do so because of the negative consequences for the individual. Well, not just that. We have set a price for the exemption of all court fees for anyone who is entitled to financial social assistance. This is a major element of the social state that we have brought into court. In addition, I should like to point out that we have fairly favourable access to free legal aid for people and legal persons. Until counseling and counseling. Free again this cost burdens the country. Then we brought the social moment into bankruptcy procedures in a number of ways. You may recall one thing because the Government supported it yesterday with regard to the authentic interpretation of the insolvency law, which will allow for the payment of pensions to those workers who are currently in companies that have been settled or have been dismissed before or have ceased their employment relationship. But that wasn't all. We have introduced a system of irrefutable assumption that if an entity does not pay or pay contributions for three months in a row, this is an automatic opportunity to initiate bankruptcy proceedings which, of course, allows workers to receive compensation from the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund. So they're not in a vacuum where they don't have a chance to get minimum compensation. In the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, we have established many social elements because we have limited enforcement in the part where we can reach out to the maintenance duties of an individual so that his family members or those who are obliged to survive do not suffer. In short, we have adopted a number of social corrections in these two years to facilitate people's access to justice. With regard to the ominous issue of Bulmastif, double criteria are constantly being sought. It's not about two legal states. More importantly, the question is whether the country has double criteria here. I think it's only right that the following is explained here. When it comes to whether or not to return the dogs decided by the administrative authority, that administrative authority decided to do so in the administrative procedure. The decision was issued in the framework of the interim order procedure, which by law is an express procedure to be carried out without a hearing, where the court must decide immediately, but this is, I stress, a provisional decision. However, when it comes to the issue of compensation, which belongs to someone because of an act that has been unlawful and has caused harmful consequences, this is a fair procedure, this is a completely different procedure, which is conducted before a completely different body and under purely different rules of the game. And these two situations to compare with the same vats are completely incorrect. Every lawyer knows that. This does not mean that I justify the longevity of the procedure that you were talking about where the injured person, Mr Meglič, is applying for compensation. I absolutely don't apologize for that. However, I do not know the circumstances of this case in order to be able to judge whether it is an unjustified delay or whether it is a very complex dispute at which stage this matter is at all. I don't have this information as a minister, and that's why I don't want to guess. The Ombudsman has repeatedly expressed satisfaction with the progress made in ensuring the exercise of the right to judicial protection in the annual report and in the discussions we had with her at the Ministry of Justice. More times. She's made some progress. It's not true that we idealize this state. We never claimed that the situation was ideal. It will never be ideal, because by nature things cannot be ideal. The court proceedings are always reactive, they are a reaction to something that happened and then where it is necessary to seek the material truth of what happened. And of course, because they're reactive, they're longer. And because here are very precise rules of the game for that it is a procedure that is fair to all the participants in the dispute, by the nature of things it takes some time. When it comes to police and prosecution cooperation, it was mentioned that this cooperation was poor. I don't know what that assessment is based on. However, I can say that the Government has recently adopted a regulation on police and prosecution cooperation, not only those two bodies, but also all other bodies that can be involved in any investigation and prosecution of crimes. This applies to the Anti-Money Laundering Office and to the Anti-Corruption Commission to the Securities Market Agency and to all other regulators with special knowledge in specific areas. This Regulation lays down very precisely how these authorities are obliged to inform each other, to exchange information, to cooperate. At the same time, we have established a basis in the Criminal Procedure Act for prosecutors to form a special specialised group to include experts from these areas in order to help them draw up indictments. Therefore, we have given prosecutors more tools than they have recently had so that they can be more successful in the pursuit of economic crime. Of course, those who commit a crime in the field of economy, by nature things are not chicken thieves, cannot be chicken thieves and this comparison is not appropriate. Indeed, Mrs Irgle's debate has been explicitly exposed to the fact that only those hens are persecuted in the context of economic crime, which in fact represents some kind of wealth in this area. That's totally not true. However, it is true and here I agree that the success of prosecutions in this area in difficult forms of economic crime could be greater than it is, and the prosecutors agree. Even the Attorney General. I think we must all work together to make this possible. We will enable them, as I said, to provide them with appropriate tools if they need them and, on the other hand, not to accuse them all in spite of incompetence. This does not mean that they are blameless, nor does it mean that they are irresponsible, that they are not obliged to account for what they are doing. We have precise rules by which this responsibility is determined. And I have repeatedly highlighted, identified and identified myself, not only in relation to prosecutors, but also in relation to judges. I don't want cases like this as a minister. I hope it will be as few as possible, but if it does happen, it is the duty of the judiciary and the prosecution to find such cases quickly and quickly decide whether to enforce the individual's responsibility. When it comes to the question raised, when will we experience concrete cases in procedures, as in Croatia. I do not want what is happening in Croatia. Croatia is known to have much worse problems with systemic corruption, including political corruption than Slovenia. It's an incomparable condition. But on the other hand, this does not mean that we are naturally immune to corruption in Slovenia. We didn't. This is also proved by some criminal proceedings, unfortunately, also against some who are sitting in this National Assembly. The answer to the question concerning the Shuštar case. I checked it out, this gentleman was supposed to be paroled. Of course, the Minister of Justice has nothing to do with this. Firstly, I have actually heard of this case, so I strongly reject the insinuation that I should intervene in this direction. The conditional discharges shall be decided by the special three-member commission, which shall include the Chief Justice, the Chief Prosecutor and representatives of the Ministry of Justice. This commission is completely independent. She never informs the Minister of this, nor does she deal with anyone, nor has she made any decisions. The Minister does not have any powers vis-à-vis this committee. About Cele and the question of when a lawyer should call a Crown Witness 60 times. I read it, too, and I was surprised. But because you were wondering what would happen now. At the very least, what will happen is that the court in this case will assess the credibility of such "chronic witnesses". That's the least that's gonna happen. This is, of course, the primary task of the court. If, however, the prosecution who is party to such proceedings considers that there could be more to this than a breach of professional ethics, it shall have all the power to act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u71	Mr. Aleš Zalar has the floor. Mr. Grimes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u72	Yes, thank you very much. True, it took an extremely long time, obviously to bring about the truth of the day, to go very deep. This has proved to be the case today, but now I think that if we add up the last words, it is very clear what the actual state of Slovenian justice is. It is very unlikely that the perpetrators of major economic crimes will be brought before the face of justice, for many of the reasons already listed today. In case they come, it turns out to be the fundamental property of Slovenian justice, which political science simply calls slowness. Things last, last, last and, as a rule, absolutely obsolete. In the event that a judgment has been delivered by chance, the competent judge may also provide some 6 months of explanation for that judgment, but it concerns the age of the sentence absolutely for that reason. In case of an accident, in two cases this was the case. It was Hit, Mr Danilo Kovacic, and it was the only public case of major corruption in the public sector for the former Secretary of State, Mr Boris Šučič, who had been handed down a verdict, then was released sooner or later or later, or he was quite exempt. Anyway, he's on the loose. What is the signal given by Slovenian justice to all those who are itchy and have the opportunity in the economy to abuse their position? Very simple, free hunting, the hunt is open. The hunting season started a long time ago. Then we talk about having a justice that works well, and we wonder and how we roll our hands in the government and the ruling coalition, how the Economist can do us such a terrible injustice that it ranks us among countries where democracy is no longer perfect, but it is distorted. But it is reversed because the rule of law does not work as it should. This then affects all other subsystems of social life. This has a negative impact on the economy. This results in the fact that, after I listen, in Gorenjska, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs plan nothing more than to move the company's seat across the border as soon as possible to Austria, and not only from Gorenjska, I also know a case from New Town and Koroška, and from some part of Slovenia that thinks only about it. Why? Because they have a functioning justice system there. Because he knows there will be no victims of financial non-discipline, because he knows that there will not be any victims of all possible abuses in the economy, because he knows there are not some large people who are politically close to the present authority, even with the system of non-acting justice, if you want or do not have a good enough functioning justice, because they know there that they will be able to operate normally in Europe in a comparable way. For Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, this is a tragedy, because this means the loss of development opportunities. This means for you, too, if you want, the loss of revenue in the budget you like to share so much, so you owe this country, a country with a few billion euros in just two years, that today every citizen is significantly more indebted than it was in the former Yugoslavia. But you obviously don't care about all this. It is important that you take care of specific groups because this way you are counting on buying your political power and that this way you are buying a political future. I can tell you now that this way you will not go far, unfortunately it will be paid by Slovenia as a whole. Mr Minister, who answered a thousand questions that he had not been asked, and only one of the two questions to which he was asked, I would point out that he has missed the second question. The one I mentioned in my address: Does the case know that a minister's brother would be involved in an affair of bulmastif, according to the entire legal profession there, made a major professional error, some even claimed that it was an abuse of the situation and a violation of the law, and then was appointed and rewarded by the current government for his work to a very well-paid position somewhere in the European Union? Can you answer, Mr. Minister, if you know this case, who it is, my question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Get Ivan Grill ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. If we are talking about the state of justice and the political influence on justice, then surely today's meeting is one of those where the National Assembly as a political body is transparently trying to directly influence the functioning of the judiciary. So this point and this meeting that we are talking about today is something that should not actually happen in this way. If someone wants to intercede against the minister, let him put it in, and we will talk about the Minister and the tasks that the Minister performs or does not perform and is responsible for carrying out certain tasks. That's just my understanding of the problem. However, I think that the National Assembly should really avoid such political pressure on the functioning of the courts. Especially when we arrive at a time when in fact also the most challenging cases in Slovenia alone are close to being dealt with in the courts. This suggests that in fact the interest of the applicants is focused on this direction, that justice is tried to be seen as non-creditable and that, as it will decide, it will not be right. Just in case it's up to someone who's a member of the opposition or who's proposing. But let me tell myself from my experience how the former government worked. Therefore, it is also uncreditable that you should even propose such a hearing when Minister Mate conducts himself to another minister, whom he must inform. Excuse me, what kind of legal state was this in the mandate that expired before this government's appearance? I have experienced this on my skin, and I do not want anyone in this or in the coming mandates or under any government to experience a similar matter. He can't impose on another minister who was then chairman of the Roma Commission to inform someone. This is a concrete example of what we are saying today and what you are proposing, in fact, let us first clear up the threshold and then talk about what is wrong with justice, what is wrong with the rule of law and how individual governments actually work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Grimes, the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u76	Just a quick answer, my respectable colleague! Now that we've talked about these cases, how things are going on in the area of economic crime prosecution and what is going on with people, if they are already arbitrarily convicted, I would warn you that this was not an obvious matter at the expense of the courts, as you may have misunderstood. One was apparently released for intervention by the President or at the decision of the President and the other on the basis of the decision of the Commission of the Ministry of Justice. It's a very simple matter. The courts had nothing to do with this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill. If it's time to three-quarters, the next one will be the last Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! I am also a co-signatory of this request for this debate for this session, and I can assure you that I am not in any proceedings before any court, at least not to know. But maybe this can also happen that we will read in the media that it will be possible on the basis of today's debate. So that the observation you made that we are the ones who have such or other problems here, that we have convened or requested this debate for this very reason in the proceedings, is not correct and it would probably be worth thinking about apologizing for that too. I would also correct you here in that explanation about Mr. Schuštar, a member of the LDS, because he was, where you somehow tried to distance yourself from him, that you had nothing to do with his forgiveness. I guess that's not the case. The fact is that Koper Prison, where Mr Šuštar last sat, has prepared a report in which he has recommended conditional leave. However, in contrast to the proposal of the law or prison, the parole commission, which you call yourself and is directly subordinate to you, decided otherwise. It's an unusual practice. It means you've got nothing to do with it. You have clean, washed hands, but you are likely to be the one who had an influence on this. Then I am very surprised that, especially by the coalition today, we are again hearing evidence of how we allow ourselves in the National Assembly to discuss the courts, the work of courts, or the work of justice in general. Yes, where else can we discuss in this love of Slovenia? Yesterday, on the Committee on Health and on the Committee on Science and Higher Education, we discussed the problems caused by some political games in the background of not building a medical university in Maribor. Because of some of the interests of the political party, we have again been criticized for trying to discuss matters that are not of concern to us, to exert some pressure on the audit committee and that this is unacceptable. We are hearing again today that we must not discuss the work of the courts, the lawsuits, the convictions and so on. Parliament must be, and I hope that there will always be a place where, of course, such discussions can also be held. In his opening remarks, the Minister expressed satisfaction with the work of the courts or with the work of the judiciary that we have made progress here. I don't share that opinion myself. Mr Gorenak said that you probably have such an opinion there, your President, Mrs Kresal, and perhaps the president of the country, perhaps even a coalition, but I ask people all together. I am still visited by 80% to 90% of the people who visit me mainly because they have been treated unfairly in the courts for having been wronged. Not because they lost their lawsuits or their convictions. There may also be this dilemma or the debate that someone is always unhappy, but you know what's interesting? That he always or generally loses in court the simple man who doesn't have money for dear lawyers. And I don't think I should try to sell the story now, to be with good lawyers, with procedural complications, and not least with money to influence a lot of things. And here, when Mr Minister mentioned earlier that he did not imagine that the Government would influence the work of the courts, the work of the prosecution, all these proceedings, neither this nor any other. I agree with this in part, but I have mentioned several times in my debates that unfortunately in Slovenia it leads to justice or, in general, this system is some elite in the background. I don't want to talk a lot about Baricevic again, but if we look at all these connections there, there wasn't a minister here, and all that we've been listening to is directly involved, but the elite in the background. These elites are lawyers, these elites are tycoons or wealthy people, and this elite has the support of such or otherwise ministries, including the government. See how we treat judges differently, also showing the case that we had in this National Assembly when granting immunity. I agree that immunity should be abolished in the Constitution for all, but especially for Members, because such immunity as it is, in fact, does not mean anything. But to grant immunity by the coalition to a judge against whom the private action of a simple person was brought, I am speaking to a simple man whom she, in her own procedure, persuaded to agree to a settlement, paid for car repairs, which, of course, also led him to the procedure at the time, led him to pay, about a thousand five hundred euros to the party with whom he had a traffic accident. Then he realized that the damage was EUR 100.50. Because he wanted this procedure to be clarified by a court of law, he instituted or brought a private action against him. And the coalition voted against this court immunity so that it could not be brought to trial. Are we equal before the law because of such a banal case? I'm glad it didn't happen against a judge in Cyprus. There, too, was a desire to grant her immunity and apparently, on the basis of a very thorough debate, the argument prevailed that some Members of some parliamentary groups abstained. The fact that judges can be called untouchable is often true. Let us ask ourselves how successful our courts are. How many cases have we solved for economic crime? Very, very few, and even those who were, were then released in one way or another. Such a debate on efficiency, on the work of our courts, is more than necessary to be held in the temple of democracy, such as the National Assembly. Therefore, I do not agree with any instigation, to go through any politics, to allow ourselves to discuss the work of our courts, and to be personally involved in these stories, and to protect ourselves in this way. It just doesn't hold. I hope that today's debate will also contribute to a better part of the courts, because that is what we deserve.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-22-SDZ5-Izredna-36.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Kres, it'll probably be one and a half minutes. I suggest we adjourn the debate. I interrupt the first item of the agenda and the 36th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Members and Members of Parliament, I request that we take all the material away from the hall for the preparation of the hall for the meeting of the 90 Members of the Assembly. I inform you that at 4:30 p.m. the 22nd urgent meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons will be held in the Grand Chamber in Tomšič. Thank you very much. Tomorrow at 9 a.m., the meeting will resume.
