ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting with the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members cannot attend today's meeting: Marjan Križman from 10 a.m. to 13 p.m., Villa Rezman, Dr. Peter Verlič and Jožef Jerovšek. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATION LAW OF THE HEALTH OF THE HEALTH, THE HEALTH SPECIALIST, THE DENMARK OF DENTAL MEDICALS AND THE DENMARK OF THE DENMARK OF SPECIALISTS IN THE CURRENT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the Minister of Health to further explain the proposal. Dr. Dorian Marusich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members! I have submitted a proposal for a law on the recognition of professional qualifications to a doctor, a doctor specialist, a doctor of dental medicine and a doctor of dental medicine specialist because of one of the biggest problems of the Slovenian healthcare system, or we can also say in a broader view of European health systems. Let me start with a wider view. By 2020, there will be a shortage of one million health workers or two million all working in the healthcare system. Slovenia, with the number of doctors, belongs to the tail of the European Union and has the smallest number of doctors per thousand inhabitants or is in the last place. Events in recent years or in recent months have convinced us how important it is that we have an adequate number of doctors, nurses, and that health care is an intensive workforce. Without a frame, it's hard to imagine any upgrades to the health system. Very quickly in history, at the time of independence in Slovenia, half the doctors and doctors, dentists and dentists who completed the Faculty outside Slovenian borders worked. One of the major successes in the history of Slovenia was the agreement reached for the opening of the new medical faculty in Maribor, now we can say other medical faculties, but the data shows that we are somehow at the upper limit of the training capacity in the Slovenian health area. This is because medical studies and dental medicine studies are conducted in direct contact with the patient and somehow the health system is more than that, somehow 330 doctors, cannot be educated. It is therefore one of the guidelines to introduce the law and that the area of recognition of qualifications from the so-called third countries be governed by the law, since the Minister’s desire was that the procedures be carried out from one place – so far carried out under the responsibility of different ministries – and that the procedure in this way be uniform. In doing so, as Minister, I expect and want and propose the following points by law. For the first time, if we want to recognise the qualifications of these candidates quickly, there must be a need or otherwise, operators in the Slovenian space will have to issue a guarantee letter to such candidates. Secondly, that this procedure is carried out in accordance with legislation, i.e. within the prescribed time limits; that is, the analyses have shown that these procedures sometimes last up to two or three years. Following the current law, the Commission, which will be in the same composition as today but will be appointed by the Ministry, will have to carry out procedures within a month. And once such a candidate has completed all these procedures, he will be able to work on the public network. The knowledge of the language, which is one of my most important requirements, including the Minister, will have to be properly demonstrated by the candidate. Whether the marriage will achieve what everyone would like is a question, we will see how the answers will be. The fact is, at the end of last year, there were about 250 candidates in the procedures for the recognition of qualifications, 200 for doctors, 50 for dentists. The procedures have been very long, so it is difficult to assess how many of these would actually fit into the system. In short, with the law I have proposed, we would like everything to be implemented in one place. This is a regulatory law which will deal with candidates within the prescribed time limits. It is a matter of built-in fuses that candidates who would be admitted to the health system will have to work for an appropriate period in the Slovenian health system, they will need to know Slovenian language and they will need to know medicine or dental medicine, which will be tested by the Commission. Other inconsistencies have been addressed by the Committee and the amendments adopted, both by SD, LDS, Reals and DeSUS. With the amendments of the SDS Group, I am convinced that this is also a safeguard, that there will certainly not be a major intrusion of these candidates, as each year the Minister will have to report on the potential of the arrival of doctors or dentists in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. I give the floor to Mr Ljub Germić to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Health shall be held at its 17th emergency meeting on 10. 12. 2010 was treated as a parent working body by the proposal for a law on the recognition of professional qualifications by a doctor, specialist doctor, dental medicine doctor and dental medicine specialist submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the legislative procedure following an emergency procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. Members and members of the Committee received a proposal for a law, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and an opinion from the Commission of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons. Mr Dorian Marušič, Minister of Health, gave the introductory explanation for the bill. He stressed that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants to reduce the procedure for the recognition of professional qualifications of doctors from third countries and facilitate their employment in the Republic of Slovenia. The inadequate structure of doctors after activities indicates a lack of doctors in the field of anaesthesia, family medicine, radiology and paediatrics. The projections until 2018 are also not optimistic in individual activities. According to the data collected, there were approximately 500 doctors missing in the Republic of Slovenia in 2008 and 2009. Despite the fact that we have two colleges of medicine with which an agreement has been concluded to increase entry places, the number of graduates will still not be sufficient for all needs. The fastest and most effective way to tackle this problem is to obtain foreign doctors, which will only be possible if Slovenia is made available to them by other Member States, non-members of the European Union. According to the Ministry, there is no strong interest in the operation of doctors from EU Member States, but legislation which does not aim at reducing administrative barriers and does not comply with the European Union guidelines is a major concern. The legislative and legal service examined the draft law in terms of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. It made specific comments to Article 14 on the draft law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that most of the comments proposed by the coalition parties were taken into account and that the comments which were not taken into account were duly explained by the applicant. The opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, was presented at the meeting by the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Peter Požun. He pointed out that the Commission supported and expressed its full appreciation and support for the Ministry of Health's rapid response to the problem, as well as the adoption of a regulation on the organisation of continuous healthcare, which is the basis for the preparation of a new Health and Health Insurance Act and other health legislation. In the broad and controversial debate in which most members of the committee participated, the fact that Slovenia is losing its own potential was first highlighted, since more than 200 graduates have not been able to join the medical faculty, and we will receive people who are significantly less qualified. The University of Medicine in Maribor has free cities that could be filled, but there is no financial resources. In the opinion of some members of the Committee, the open dilemma is expressed in the fact that the proposal for a law is adopted in an urgent way, that things are not specified, it is not clear whether the criteria of expertise will really be taken into account and that the language knowledge is indeed in such a way that the patient and the doctor agree. Some members of the committee felt that the law was necessary because health care was difficult to carry out due to the lack of a certain staff. The criteria are clear. Anyone who wants to come to Slovenia will have to meet certain qualifications. To this end, expert commissions are appointed and a procedure is laid down. This problem is multi-layer. This is not only about doctors coming from other countries, but also about the situation and status of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have studied medicine abroad and now have problems with the recognition of licences. On the open debate, the Minister of Health, Mr Marusic, gave answers and stressed that a country with two million people cannot have more than 350 seats in both medical universities. It is also an important fact that there is a great desire among our graduates to do the job abroad. The process of recognition of professional qualifications in Slovenia is already under way, but competences are divided between different departments and legislation. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, amendments to the draft law were tabled by the four coalition groups at Article 13, and the SDS Group tabled an amendment to Article 7. The members of the committee supported the amendments, i.e. all amendments by the parties to the coalition, i.e. to Article 13 and the SDS Group of Members to Article 7 of the bill. The Committee has also drafted and adopted its amendment to Article 34. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all other articles of the bill together. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee has set out the text of the amended draft law which forms an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. He has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on the recognition of professional qualifications by a doctor, a doctor specialist, a doctor of dental medicine and a doctor of dental medicine specialist. We agree with the Government's explanation that there has been a lack of doctors in some areas, such as anesthesia, family medicine, radiology and paediatrics. We also see the need for doctors in rural and small towns. The need for overprivatisation of health homes. Private doctors wanted to make more money in larger towns in Slovenia, while villages and smaller cities were left without adequate doctors. With this law, narrow throats created in health care due to inadequate medical staff structure in the areas of health care and overprivatisation in primary health care can be removed within a short period of time. This law also implements the EU Council Directive of 25 May 2009 on the conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals with a university diploma who have an offer to work in an EU Member State. Thus, Slovenia will be able to get to the highly qualified healthcare staff that we need more quickly. The law provides adequate safeguards regarding the quality of health and knowledge of Slovenian language. We have also adopted an amendment in the process of consideration which gave the Minister of Health protection against the possible flow of unnecessary healthcare. However, it is unlikely that this law could contribute in the short term to the provision of 24-hour healthcare or to avoid the re-destabilisation of the healthcare system, which would arise on 1 January 2011 with the envisaged repeated withdrawal of consent for the additional overtime work of doctors. For the latter, the Ministry and supervisory institutions should ensure consistent implementation of laws that should protect the public interest in health. The law is a step towards a greater role for the Ministry of Health in addressing pressing health issues. The Group of Social Democrats believes that the law is both necessary and appropriate. However, I would like to remind you that only a large number of doctors will not be able to solve our current health problems. These problems have mainly led to the process of privatisation and commercialisation. In support of the thesis that a larger number of doctors do not necessarily mean better health care, I would like to inform you about some of the World Health Organization’s data. Slovenia had an average of 24 doctors per 10,000 inhabitants between 2000 and 2009. Following the success of the health system, Slovenia was ranked 38th among 191 countries. UK and Japan, for example, had fewer doctors during this period, but only 21 per 10 000 inhabitants, despite the small proportion of GDP they invest in health compared to Slovenia, have significantly more successful health systems than the Slovenian one. After the success of its healthcare system, Britain was ranked 18th, and Japan was ranked 10th among 191 countries. With fewer doctors per 10,000 people from Slovenia, both countries have a significantly better health system than Slovenia. This thesis is also confirmed by countries with a higher number of doctors per 10,000 inhabitants of Slovenia and with a significantly worse health system than ours. For example, Hungary, Latvia, and Uruguay have 28, 30 and 37 doctors per 10,000 inhabitants, and the Russian Federation have 43 doctors per 10,000 inhabitants. All these countries have more doctors than Slovenia, but their health systems are ranked in order of success in worse places than our health system. This is the 66th, 105th and 65th city, and the Russian Federation has almost twice as many doctors per 10,000 inhabitants the success of the health system in such a way that it is ranked 130th. Not everything is about the number of doctors. Other medical measures are needed. Social Democrats will support this law in particular in order to obtain medical personnel faster to replace bottlenecks in health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good morning, nice greeting! At the outset, I must say that the Slovenian Democratic Party will not oppose this law, because it is a law that opens up the intervention imports of doctors from the republics of the former Yugoslavia. We are aware that the problem of lack of doctors in Slovenia is great, and that is also why we support this urgent fire-fighting intervention, but we have great concerns about how we are doing this. Actually, it's not even a fire extinguisher. It's a fire restriction. We've known there's been a fire for 15 years. He's been on fire for 15 years, he's on fire, he's on fire. In all mandates, the policy has not acted. 15 years ago, it was clear that the average age of Slovenian physician was 5-8 years higher than in Europe. This means that the retirement will create a gap, a big gap. Well, this gap is increasingly showing and there's a variety of data on how many doctors you'd need today in order for the health care service to go normal. That it doesn't go well, we know. A critical lack of certain profiles, such as anesthesiologists, and in certain places on the ground, in small places, in fact only private concessionaires insist, and health homes are without doctors. Even foreign doctors who come to us years ago when they ask for concessions when they ask to work alone if they don't get the concessions, they just leave. Such cases occurred in the region of Koroška, near Drava, and so on. We are now allowing import through this law. In these years, however, we have done nothing to prepare our own human resources policy, which is the responsibility of the country for which the ministries are responsible, in such a way that it would not be such a gap in the long term. It wouldn't be. How much trouble did it take to establish a Maribor Medical College?Oh, my God! And this one would like to build her own building and not just visit different places of other colleges, but it has been happening for two years now not to get the green light and there are some strange blockades, I stress, strange blockages to start an investment. Even European funds are likely to collapse or not benefit from these strange blockades, but on this at an extraordinary meeting. However, I am surprised that, in fact, this government and the previous governments did not mind, they were not disturbed by the fact that the Faculty of Ljubljana, now also with the Faculty of Maribor, rejected about 200 good graduates each year who would like to study medicine which are willing to study who are capable of having good graduation results, cannot study. Of course, they go to other colleges, mostly social schools, where we know what the job is like, and so we produce unfortunate Slovenian intellectuals who will not actually find their job in unemployable professions. One more time. The approach itself is so typical of these governments that, in fact, they save only when it burns so badly that everyone burns their way under our feet, then they deal with this issue, long-term investments in human resources, but they don't plan, they don't recognize it as an emergency. And that's the main indication of all this magic how to solve the current situation. We've tabled some amendments, let's hope they're accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franci Kek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a law that is in some way a consequence of past mistreatment in the field of health care and constitutionally guaranteed health care. In the Member Group, we have always actively cooperated in the field of health and have pointed out certain shortcomings both in the field of medical services, the provision of health services in the framework of concessions, the organisation itself and, lastly, also in the field of the performance of the on-call service. Following our assessment of the unnecessary escalation by the medical union, we have called for more active participation by all parties involved in the adoption of the authentic interpretation of the Medical Services Act. From this point of view and engagement, we can only congratulate the competent minister. We welcome the long-term focus on solving the medical activity demonstrated by the Minister by the introduction of this bill, with the desire to see all further reforms in this area begin faster than forecasts. The main aim of the law is to shorten the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications to doctors from third countries and to facilitate their employment in the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that the inadequate structure of doctors after activities shows a lack of doctors, particularly in the areas of anaesthesia, family medicine, radiology and paediatrics. Unfortunately, the projections submitted by 2018 by individual activities are also not optimistic. According to the minister, only the number of radiologists will increase slightly faster. All other profiles are at only 1% of the annual rate. According to the data collected, there are approximately 500 doctors in Slovenia today. The increase in entry places at both Slovenian Medical Faculty in due course will not solve this problem. Therefore, the fastest and most effective way to tackle these problems is to obtain foreign doctors, and we need to increase and expand accessibility in particular to other EU Member States and non-EU Member States. In doing so, let me say that we are extremely negatively surprised by the irresponsible emphasis of some of our fellow Members on the working body, that we will bring less qualified people to Slovenia, that the proposal of the law is not appropriate, that there is a fear that the established professional criteria will not be respected and that language knowledge will ensure understanding between the doctor and the patient. However, the biggest error, according to our assessment, is the insinuation that the law imports people from abroad, making it impossible for our graduates to carry out specialisations. Yeah, who's signing them? Minister, politics? You know it's not like that. Therefore, the attacks on politics, which are intended to delay the construction of the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor, are totally unrealistic and will be followed by a word on the committee. The fact is that the law is needed, as health care is far more difficult than it would have been if it were due to lack of staff. The content of the law is therefore sufficient or appropriate basis for resolving the situation. In the Group of Members, we will really support the law. However, we expect the competent minister to take immediate action to prepare certain health reforms or, as he himself says, 'implementation of the existing system', thus following more comprehensive trends and solutions in the field of health care and health activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik will present the position of the Ambassador of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Unfortunately, the lack of personnel in Slovenian health care has been a constant in our space for years. In part, things just moved through the opening of the medical faculty in Maribor and by increasing the registration cities. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we view the lack of doctors as a serious problem in our health system and it is right that the current minister has finally taken a bite into this sour apple. Of course, we cannot be most pleased that we have to look for medical personnel in so-called third countries, where the quality of education systems is still largely not reaching the level that we are accustomed to in this area. This place also raises the question of why there is no interest in working in Slovenia by doctors from other European Union countries. Is the environment really so unattractive for foreign health professionals? We agree that procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications are absolutely too long. Sometimes it takes years. However, the blame is not on the candidates, but on the complex administrative procedures of the current way of work. The current proposal of the law combines all administrative procedures for the recognition of qualifications under the auspices of the Ministry of Health and thus the Minister assumes full responsibility for the granting of medical licences. We hope that this will also make it easier to control the course of proceedings. Although the bill solves current problems, the SLS would like a longer-term strategy to ensure domestic medical personnel in Slovenia. We do not really want the doctors trained by the Slovenian educational system to look for employment opportunities in other EU Member States, and we would be mass substitutes for this deficit on the basis of the law we are dealing with. Such thinking is certainly not protectionism, but a call for debate, as Slovenian specialists are also recognized in the Western world as extremely good experts. Fear of brain escape is fully justified in this case. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore support the provisions of the law which stipulate that each year the Ministry of Health sets the upper limit for the number of job offers available in the Republic of Slovenia. In this way, jobs for domestic graduates will not be put at risk. The proposed law reduces procedures, and we also point out in the SLS that emphasis should be placed on the process of recognition of qualifications on the quality of candidates and on their relevant expertise. Given that the time limits for obtaining work licences will be reduced in the SLS Group, we also note that this should not affect the level of knowledge of the Slovenian language of successful candidates, as we know that the nature of the medical profession is very closely linked to working with people. We are aware that the current situation can already jeopardise the provision of complete health care in the country. The main objective of the proposed law should be to increase the number of doctors in our country with precise criteria for determining the skills of doctors from third countries and the knowledge of the Slovenian language. In doing so, we must ensure uninterrupted 24-hour health care and improve the quality of healthcare. Since the proposed law promises this, we will also support it in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by the mag. Your Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u14	Dear Vice-President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues, colleagues! The proposal by the Minister of Health, which goes towards the so-called more relaxed admission of foreign doctors to the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, is a good proposal. That is why I can say at the outset that I, and also our Group of Members, will be happy to support him. We have reviewed the text of this bill, as a quality public health system is one of our main priorities. We have also made some comments, both substantive and nomotechnic, on the text of this proposal. In doing so, I can see that they have been partially taken into account. Let me point out that some only after our legislative and legal services have found the same shortcomings. Nevertheless, the complementary proposal of the law is good and I think it will be even better with the additional amendments that are being prepared. We all know that in Slovenia there is a shortage of doctors, not only this year, but also in all years. I think that is why a thorough review is needed, what is the actual state of the number of doctors in Slovenia. Many times we listen to different numbers, unfortunately, different numbers, but not the exact number, how many doctors we need now and how many we would need at some point. We want doctors from other countries to come and help us or to work with us. But the arrival of these doctors should not be unsupervised. The proposal, of course, takes into account the relevant professional and practical competence, the knowledge of Slovenian language and also procedures for the necessary additional training of the doctor in order to be able to provide quality care for the health of our citizens and citizens. In short, the filling of the staff mank in this area is, in our opinion, adequately protected by appropriate mechanisms that are the basis for good choice, and for which the Ministry of Health and the Medical Chamber of Slovenia are primarily responsible. Also with regard to the restriction on the influx of foreign doctors, adopted at the initiative of fellow Members of Parliament, one of the guardians was represented at the meeting of the working body. We must not forget that we have two medical faculties, and even though both have their numberus Claus every year of admission of candidates to medical school, we must take this into account and remove all the reasons that another medical faculty, for which we have been and is of national importance, as well as in terms of how many doctors we will have in Slovenia, should not be neglected. I therefore hope that tomorrow's extraordinary meeting of our committee will also be a success in this direction. I would like to say that in the past everything has been too long a procedure for the admission of new doctors. I remember a doctor from her environment who came from one of the Eastern countries and waited months and months for a lengthy procedure, even though she wanted to work as an anaesthetic specialist. Since she was serious about her employment, at the time she waited for all these administrative matters and had to pass exams, she worked at the hospital reception team, in three shifts, it is said that she took the matter seriously. Today this doctor is an anaesthesia specialist, it is said, one of those doctors or doctors who are still needed in our medical system. If we want health reforms to be successful – and very soon, tomorrow, we will start to discuss it – then we must also consider that we need a sufficient number of doctors, our own, as well as those who want to work with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u16	Good-bye, everybody! Dear Minister, the President! By law on the recognition of professional qualifications, a doctor specialist, a doctor of dental medicine specialist wants to simplify and simplify the procedures by which doctors from non-member countries of the European Union can obtain recognition of education in Slovenia or arrange for nostrations and may be employed. Thus, a foreign specialist doctor who will have a guaranteed letter from a health service provider in Slovenia will be able to complete the whole procedure within one month for employment. He will also need to know Slovenian for his own work, and the special commission of the Ministry will take care of the examination of the professional knowledge of the candidates. Graduates will be able to apply for specialization after six months, and the specialist will have to carry out a maximum of one additional year of education so that he can become a specialist doctor. In this way, at least in part we could take action against such a acute shortage of doctors in the Republic of Slovenia, because with 273 doctors per 100,000 people we are actually on the tail in the European Union. Unfortunately, however, it is not only a low average number of doctors in Slovenia who tend our health care. An even bigger problem is the age structure, distribution by activity and, in particular, the unpleasant geographical distribution, which is mainly affected by the remote region's centre of the country, such as the Pomur region, some in Podrav, some in Koroška and others. In the Slovenian National Party, we have repeatedly highlighted this problem of lack of doctors in rural areas, as is most evident, for example, in Gorički, in Prekmurje, because work and living in such areas is certainly specific to doctors, there are no motivations and no other perspectives in their career and professional life in the future, so they prefer to move to centres or stay in urban centres. Unfortunately, as we see in this bill, solving this issue is not specified or, at least we can hope, the proposer may have some other plan to achieve a more favourable geographical distribution – perhaps with some other sub-legislative acts. Not long ago, some doctors in Murska Sobota invited me to interview, as they are very well aware of this problem of lack of doctors in the countryside. They are themselves heavily overburdened, simply unable to physically meet all the needs not to speak of affected people, who are the main victims of such an irregular situation, and not least of their unequal situation and the violation of constitutional rights to provide health services equally for all Slovenes and Slovenes. Doctors themselves came every day with constructive suggestions and suggestions on how to maintain or attract doctors to such areas. One such was, for example, the establishment of an appropriate doctor award point system, which could, at least to some extent, strengthen the interest and motivation of healthcare professionals in order to remain or serve in such remote areas. I think that such a proposaler should also have in mind the opportunity to attract or import, if we say so, doctors, because the success of the law will sting if the vast majority of new doctors remain in Ljubljana or Maribor, for example. If he could not already foresee the regulation of this problem with this law, I suggest that he is planning it with any sub-legislative acts or regulations. In doing so, I am thinking mainly of the very specific structures of doctors after activities such as family medicine doctors, general medicine, pediatricians, etc., which are the ones most lacking in the rural population and rightly expected of us and of you to take appropriate action in this regard. Unfortunately, such a situation in our health care is not surprising, for in the Slovenian National Party we are constantly alerting and pointing to other manufacturing irregularities or better said in the absence of the functioning of the health system, such as the irrational spending of money in health care, violations of the employment status of employees, illogicality in poor and many too expensive projects and regulations to regulate work in the health system, and not least that we are not talking about the'scrupulous pharmacology', which also, unfortunately, contributes to the irritation and inefficiency of our health system. However, the consequences are, of course, long waiting lists, a lack of material and financial resources and, of course, adequate health care and treatment outcomes. Well, we could add a lot more to this subject, but for once so much about the position of the Slovenian National Party and more about the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President. Say good-bye to everyone again! At the LDS Club, we will support the law on recognition of professional qualifications by a doctor, specialist doctor, dental medicine doctor and dental medicine specialist. The basic reason for support is the implementation of the principle of ensuring that patients are as accessible as possible to quality health services, which will in practice reduce waiting periods while making it easier to provide 24-hour healthcare for healthcare providers. The needs for health services due to population ageing, increasing awareness and complexity of the population, the development of health technologies and epidemiological trends are increasing. The actual needs often exceed the capacity of health care, often due to the lack of adequate staff. At the LDS, we regret that in recent years there has been no comprehensive resolution of human resources at the Ministry of Health, for which all governments have been responsible. Today, about 500 doctors are expected to be lacking in the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of data from healthcare providers collected in 2008 and 2009. In fact, in Slovenia we have not been able to create public health networks based on the needs of the people in the Republic of Slovenia since the whole period of independence. In the past, we have also witnessed different assessments of the needs of doctors. Thus, in the past decade we have even witnessed estimates that doctors are even too many. Of course, reality quickly showed that the estimates of those days were incorrect. Of course, today, we expect health policy planners and health operators to take measures in the same direction so that appropriate measures are taken to address this problem and reduce waiting types. According to the international comparison, Slovenia is a country with a low average population, and at the same time we face an unpleasant age structure, with 185 already retired among active doctors. At the same time, we are still witnessing inadequate structure by activity that indicates a lack of doctors in the field of anesthesiology, family medicine, radiology and pediatrics. However, these activities are neither optimistic nor forecasting until 2018. To save the staff deficit of doctors, the establishment of the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor in 2003 represented a measure in the right direction, allowing more graduates to be enrolled. On the basis of the agreement, the number of admissions to the Ljubljana and Maribor Medical Faculty will be further increased in the following year. However, the increased inflow of graduates from both universities can only be expected in the coming years, which does not solve the existing problem. We therefore agree with the Ministry of Health's assessment that it is the fastest, most effective way to solve the problem of lack of doctors in obtaining foreign doctors, both specialists and specialists. The analyses have shown that there is little interest in the employment of medical personnel from the Member States of the European Union, while this interest of candidates from third countries is significantly greater. However, this measure will only be effective if Slovenia is able to create attractive and accessible conditions for them. This is not the case today, as the legal regime in this area is too much, but at the same time it does not follow the EU guidelines and the directive, which will allow third-country nationals to enter and reside for the purposes of highly skilled employment as of June 2011. In view of the current fragmented regulation in several laws, the proposed law in one law regulates the conditions and procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications by a doctor, a specialist doctor, a dental medicine doctor and a dental medicine specialist doctor for persons who have obtained professional qualifications in third countries. In the LDS, we support the basic objective of the law so that the envisaged procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications can be implemented more quickly, as this will allow for faster employment. This will allow health care providers who will have to make a preliminary offer to work in the Republic of Slovenia in order to fill their human resources needs for the benefit of healthcare users. In doing so, we agree with the solution that the procedure under this law will only proceed if third-country nationals have the necessary offer to work in Slovenia. This gives the security guard not to demolish the existing public health service network and not to expel doctors from the country. In addition, in the LDS, it is recalled that in order to ensure the safety of users of health services, all the provisions and procedures that will ensure the professional competence of candidates from third countries and that the candidate must demonstrate the knowledge of the Slovenian language prior to employment in the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the inadequate structure of doctors in the LDS, it is also expected that offers will be given for those activities where there is a lack of doctors who will prioritise the needs. However, we do not understand the solutions in any way in order for doctors from third countries to be solutions for geographically less attractive areas, particularly within the framework of the primary network. We expect further measures for a comprehensive and long-term solution below. As I said before, at the LDS Club, we support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u20	Mr Vice-President, Minister-in-Charge, colleagues and colleagues! The Solidarity Group will support the proposal for a law on the recognition of professional qualifications by a doctor, specialist doctor, dental medicine doctor and dental medicine specialist. There is no doubt that in the Republic of Slovenia we do not have enough specialist doctors, especially anesthesiologists, family doctors, radiologists and pediatricians. The responsibility for such a situation must be shared by both the health policy and the Medical Chamber as well as the medical unions. Everyone knew there were too few doctors in these areas. I am convinced that it has been too little done to allow appropriate specialisations for these branches in due time. But there's something else. I mean, the doctors were always too small. We have always worked longer and longer in times past so that people did not wait for what they expected of us, without threats, without strikes and without blackmailing the sick, are convinced that this is the right thing to do. And in some ways, it will also be necessary to solve the problem in the future. In earlier times and in the previous country, it was only natural that we covered the lack of doctors with personnel from other republics. In Slovenia alone, such a practice is dead. It's time for health care to look for doctors again beyond our borders. The proposed law supports this possibility and shortens the procedures for the employment of doctors from other countries, which will alleviate the problem and, in our opinion, certainly does not solve the problem fully. We are not sure that 50 doctors per year will have an important impact on the reduction of waiting periods, because some doctors are overloaded and these new doctors will only reduce the burden already present, which will not necessarily affect the reduction of waiting periods. It will therefore be necessary to do more in the future with other interventions in the healthcare system, such as better use of working time, professional control over what anyone is doing, better organisation of work needs to be sought, the responsibility of health management needs to be strengthened and the responsibility of all those who spend health money must be strengthened. However, given that in some parts of the law makes it possible to improve the situation due to the lack of doctors in our country, our parliamentary group will be happy to support the law, as has already been said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. You have received amendments to the articles on the bench, which are two amendments to Article 7, submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party and the coalition. However, one amendment to Articles 20 and 23 has also been tabled. First, I am putting to the debate Article 7 and all the three amendments which have been tabled to this Article 7. Mr. Minister, if you wish, you will be able to report to the debate as well. Anybody want a word? I'm opening the application. Mr. France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. This is an article that sets the beginning of a process or sets out the requirements that the candidate must meet. We would like to see the evidence that the candidate has to complete before the start of the procedure, before entering Slovenia, before entering the public health service, we would also like to give a test of Slovenian knowledge. In fact, this requirement of language knowledge is extremely important. It's the doctors who work with people, it's a very delicate understanding of the patient, it's communication, personally, intimate communication between the patient and the doctor. If this communication is not available, then the success of the work is questionable. All over the world, where doctors are imported or admitted, they pay a lot of attention. In recent times, there has been a large influx of doctors from the Czech Republic to Germany. In fact, Germany called, it went this way, just like we did, but there's a demand like that. When a Czech doctor comes to Germany and starts talking about a job, they talk to him not in English, not in Czech, but in German. Although those who receive it from foreign doctors speak English very well, Czech doctors may also speak English very well. No, no, no. In German. It's the first test. Let me tell you the case of Norway, which was 12 or 10 years ago, I don't know exactly, went into a huge campaign of importing doctors from Europe. Although they have a very dispersed population, they also have hamlets, up north of Trondheim to Narvik and continue to be small hamlets, small towns, which are very cut off from the southern part of Norway. And they went into action to import thousands of doctors. Most of them came from Austria. A colleague of mine, Austria, we know each other for a while, went to Norway. What was the procedure? When they received the list of interested doctors, Norwegians first sent Norwegian lecturers to the capitals of Austria. One year these candidates learned Norwegian, and only then did they go into the process of integrating these candidates. If we leave the knowledge of the Slovenian language to the employer in the end, then it will happen the way it used to be, and we have cases in Styria, I will not call them that I will not somehow expose my colleagues when a doctor from Serbia has been working with us for 30 years, even having Slovenian citizenship and not speaking a word of Slovenian to the patient. I don't know, but it's unhygienic for me. Colleagues and colleagues, the first conditions are knowledge of Slovenian language! It doesn't have to be a high literary language. But when it comes to communication, that's the first condition. We therefore propose that, however, in an institution which is validated for this, not by any institution, but by those who are certified, the University of Labour may be required to have knowledge of the Slovenian language. There's no book language required either. No, no, no. But it's communication. The second thing we propose in this Article is the addition of the fourth paragraph. The fourth paragraph states that "the upper limit of the number of job offers in the Republic of Slovenia referred to in paragraph 3 of paragraph 1 of this Article shall be set by each year by the Minister". This was already in the debate, it was accepted by the committee, but we propose that a certain criterion, something tangible, be placed here for the minister, as he defines it, namely the highest number of those who are expected to come to Slovenia next year. The coalition also saw that some criteria needed to be set here, some tools to be given to the minister to determine that. And the coalition said that according to the needs of the performers. We don't think that's enough. In particular, the needs of performers sometimes or generally do not reflect the needs of Slovenia. They don't reflect. We have some activities, say, that are truly nourished. Let's say orthopedic surgery. Performers will only show the need for a new orthopaedic or, say, family medicine and the like, not to mention rheumatology, which is truly nourished and would require new offices, new capacities. I think the minister must have a wider field here and can also refer to the needs of the whole of Slovenia. Of course it's hard to do that, because we're here again – we don't have a public health service network, ladies and gentlemen. Networks where we would have accurate data on the actual state of affairs, that is to say, a doctor whose specializations, how old he is, how long it is expected to work until he retires, and so on, where and where we do not have the data, what do we Slovenians want with regard to our financial capabilities and our needs. This is said to mean that the public health service network should contain data on the ideal state of affairs that should be achieved as closely or as possible over the years and on the actual state of affairs. For twenty years, no, eighteen years, it has been stipulated in the law that the public health service network at the secondary level, the tertiary level, is determined by the Minister, and at the primary local community, in agreement with the Minister. There's no need to change the laws, nothing I don't need to know what to do, it should have been 18 years ago. And they were different governments, but they didn't, they didn't. Of course, it is now difficult for the minister to plan the needs of doctors a little longer in the long term, not just for one year, because even those who will come will not solve the problem in one year. They will go into the process and maybe one year in the process or even the specialization will begin in Slovenia and will not be useful in four years, in fact. We therefore propose to leave it open to the Minister to say that, in view of the actual needs and expected needs, let's say in the next six years, the Minister will assess this, even without a network, but let us let him not hunt and limit himself to the immediate needs of the performers in order to take them into account, listen to them, take them into account, clearly, he will ask hospital operators, especially large operators, to leave him alone. In fact, let him deal with the health personnel policy responsibly. So these are our two amendments, and I hope that the debate will be positive after these amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u23	Mrs. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. It is probably difficult after eighteen years of failing to establish a health network, namely, a network of health activities, but now that we are going into law by emergency, suddenly resolve all these problems, which we know have not been able to do virtually anything in the past, or that obstacles have been set. I imagine that these obstacles are probably very serious, which have never led to a consensus on what is happening with the health care network. So, I believe that this consensus, which has now been reached, is within the framework of Article 7 and what the coalition partners have agreed to complement now with the assistance of the amendment to Article 7 and Article 34, that it is difficult to achieve something even better at this point because it is finally a matter of urgency. However, I believe that it will be possible to come up with something even more appropriate in time, so that the public interest will also be satisfied with these procedures. I will certainly – and I believe that my fellow Members from the coalition – will also support the amendments to Articles 7 and 34. While the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 7 contains a basic thought that we find completely acceptable, as Dr. Tsukati said, that a doctor who directly communicates with a patient should know Slovenian. However, there may be a lack of understanding of the regulation in the law itself, as this law also provides that a doctor should obtain all the necessary evidence of Slovenian language knowledge before he starts doing his own medical work. In short, he won't start doing this on his own until he has proof. However, that he does not carry out his activities on his own, so that someone will keep an eye on him at all times, but it is also possible to agree that such a doctor can carry out a medical activity with us without this certificate. This is why we cannot accept this amendment to the 7th Article of the SDS Group because this would lead to the prevention of the basic purpose of this law, which is faster to acquire personnel. For this is the basic purpose of this law, and we know that when you sign up to come to Slovenia, usually these people do not yet know the language, but they can do it professionally and properly under someone’s mentoring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, do you want a word now or after the debate another Member who has spoken? Will you wait? [[Yeah.]] Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Otherwise, we discussed this law quite thoroughly on the committee and at the time I had some doubts as to whether in such a short time we could see all the solutions that could cause complications in the implementation process or allow us to reach people from third countries who would be granted a diploma or specialisation. We have already spoken quite a few words on the subject of Slovenian language knowledge on the committee. I must say that when we took a quick look at Article 29, I did not immediately realize that there was a flaw, namely that which was in our amendment, the Slovenian Democratic Party, which is also discussed by Dr Tsukati and is one of the very important facts. I do not imagine a doctor from third countries or foreign countries doing his work in Slovenia without a good understanding of the Slovenian language. Therefore, the provision in Article 29 to provide the employer with a certificate of knowledge of the Slovenian language is too loose and gives rise to abuse. We know that in Slovenia we have masters who can still play laws like that, who can find gaps in not talking about this Article 29. Therefore, the amendment, when proposed, provides that it must have a certificate from the competent institution, the Labour University or the Faculty of Philosophy or any other. I also agree that it does not have to be a level of knowledge in terms of knowledge of vocabulary or literature at a level as high as it is for celebrations, but at least that understanding is at such a high level that there are no mistakes that can be fatal in communication between a patient and a doctor. This provision that, at the time of the submission of the application for recognition of a qualification, a certificate of the Slovenian language should also be submitted to me, I think it makes sense. Why? I believe that in the process of specialisation or all of those skills acquisitions, on the basis of which it will then be necessary to check all of this before the exam, it is necessary, or even useful, to know Slovenian, because, as far as I know, the doctor does not only work in classrooms or in colleges or classrooms, but must be in contact with people all the time. And it would probably be much easier for him, especially for patients, to have that knowledge. And so the solutions, at least so time has shown or practice in other countries, Dr. France Tsukati mentioned Norway, then Germany, how it happens there. The basic condition, if you want to carry out such a demanding profession, is knowledge of Slovenian language. That is why I support this amendment in particular in this part, which stipulates that knowledge of the Slovenian language should be available at the outset. As well as those guards whom we spoke to on the committee, we all agreed that only the Minister must have a review, so that he also determines the number of third-country specialists we will have in Slovenia. It also makes sense to me in this additional proposal, which we have tabled, but only for one six years to come. I agree with these findings that the assessment of 500 doctors, for whom we are currently assessing by some criteria that they are missing, may be the right one, may not be. This is a matter that can be discussed. And if we had a network — I know that we will not be able to make it through this law — but we should just look for a method to actually determine how many doctors we will really need at some point in time. Because, even these findings or shortcomings of the current school system, the higher education system where we educate Slovenian doctors, unfortunately it turns out that there are about 200 graduates, the most successful graduates, because for medical studies it is necessary or high criteria are created, but about 200 graduates are not able to enter each year. And that is why it is only necessary to work harder to increase enrolment both at Ljubljana Medical College and to arrange for those shortcomings as soon as possible or in particular to increase the registration number at the Faculty of Medicine of Maribor, but above all, we will talk about this at tomorrow's meeting to resolve those complications by building a new Faculty of Medicine in Maribor. I therefore assess that these amendments, which we have received here today at the table by the Slovenian Democratic Party, can contribute to the fact that this law, despite this haste, will be able to contribute to the resolution of certain shortcomings, in particular to ensure that what is in the wish or goal of the Minister and all of us, is indeed to get to Slovenia those people who will have a high level of knowledge and that they will also know Slovenian. I'll back these amendments myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Because I see more interest in the debate, I ask that everyone who wants to do this apply for a debate. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. We have already talked a lot about the contents of Article 7 on the committee itself. The thoughts that have been raised have then also been incorporated into the text of the amendment in a way that the Minister monitors, on the basis of needs, how offers will be issued for work in Slovenia and then regulates the flow of new personnel from third countries. The purpose of the law is by no means domestic staff. That would be a completely wrong message. This must also be made clear today. Therefore, the text proposed by the SDS Group is, of course, to be compared here with the text tabled in the amendment of the groups of Members. Of course, we are wondering what should be the criteria for expressing the number of offers. Whether, on the basis of the reports of operators on the needs, the criteria set out in the amendment proposed by the SDS Member Group are worse than those proposed by the SDS delegation, which speaks of the need to determine each year the issue of tenders on the basis of the actual needs of medical services. Whether we expect to be needs, I can also understand the concerns about this, but can we expect the Minister to be uncritical, because I understand that, of course, individual health service providers will propose needs. But at the end of the text proposal, as our amendment states, the Minister has the final decision to do so. The Minister shall, each year by decision, determine the number of tenders to be actually made. That's how I understand this text. Of course, I do not see this decision coming without knowing the actual needs. Otherwise, the law itself would have missed its goal, for then we would have made offers without knowing why we were making these offers. On behalf of our parliamentary group, I have made it clear that we expect that offers will be given a priority for those areas where there is a deficit shortage of doctors and in a way that will not only be limited to those areas in Slovenia where they are less attractive to local doctors. In this context, I understand the concern that we are expressing here together, but I think the text proposed by the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups is better in this context. About knowledge of Slovenian language. I'm sorry we didn't talk about this on the committee itself anymore. But one of the aims of this law is that procedures are effectively carried out. That procedures do not last a year and a year and that language is placed as a priority condition for the occupation of the job when the doctor assumes full responsibility for communication with the patient. The reality of the reflection is here at a point where knowledge of the Slovenian language is included. Or at a stage when the competence of the committees is checked on the basis of the education received or at a later stage, when it is necessary that the understanding of the Slovenian language be placed as a fundamental condition for communication with the patient and understanding both on the one hand of the doctor and the patient, so that no complications or irregularities on this basis can occur. Therefore, I am assessing that it is a definition that by protecting that there is no way a doctor from any foreign country can enter the healthcare system before proving the relevant knowledge of the Slovenian language. While the effectiveness of the proposed law makes sense for me that the procedures for the recognition of professional qualifications run parallel when the candidate doctor acquires knowledge from the Slovenian language. The safeguard we have here is that, of course, the candidate can never be alone in practice, but that is why he has a certain mentor, who, of course, professionally, in terms of the profession itself and in the interest of communication in the domestic Slovenian language, also assumes responsibility for his work. Therefore, it seems to me that if we want to help, in a short period of time, with the provision of security guards on one side of the professional knowledge and on the other side of the knowledge of Slovenian language, to help reduce the staff deficit of doctors, the solutions that we have proposed here are, of course, appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u30	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed amendment to Article 7 to complement the first paragraph, which speaks of the need for an individual to give a certificate to an authorised educational institution on the successful conduct of the Slovenian knowledge test, will not be supported. The first reason is that one who reads precisely Article 29 of the Law, where language is spoken, is also mentioned in this Article the specific obligation of one who performs medical or any of these activities from a range of different professions which are dealt with by the law, that he must also speak Italian or Hungarian in bilingual territory. This proposal of Article 7 is therefore insufficient and does not take this into account. That's the first reason. Because we forget that there are two official languages in Slovenia in the bilingual area. When we defend the interests of patients, a person who gets into professional contact with a patient, because an individual is in a particularly vulnerable situation at the time and is not able to deal with a foreign language, but has to have care in his mother tongue, it is right to understand motherhood as the three languages I spoke about, not only about the language of the environment. That's the first reason. The second reason is that they probably do not want to remind their colleagues that we have already talked about health activities in previous mandates about whose side of the responsibility it is, in fact, for a health worker to master the language in the prescribed requirements. It's on the side of the job giver, it's either the ministry or the one who takes someone into a working relationship. And if so, then it is right that the proof of language knowledge is linked to the entry into the working relationship. Not by entering the procedure for the recognition of qualifications, but by entering the procedure for the performance of the work. Now I'm not going to speculate on the level of language management, but I imagine it's not enough that a health worker or a worker just understands the language, because there has to be active communication, he has to communicate. This means that the level of language management also needs to be followed in accordance with the principles required. Here again, I am assisting myself with Article 29 of the Law, which specifically imposes on the healthcare provider that for individual jobs the degree of language management must be pre-requisited, but at the time of entry it is checked whether this knowledge exists or not. Now, if you'll excuse me, there's only one thing I'd like to say. Indeed, stereotyped notions are that for a medical study, which is undoubtedly extremely demanding and long-term, interested and necessary maximum achievements. Those who monitored the results of the graduation are aware that the necessary points of entry into some studies are also linked to the interest in that study and I remember how it ended when a student of international relations at the FDV needed a higher number of points than a student of medicine. But this does not talk about anything – quality, complexity, necessity, necessity of study – only about the changing interest in studies, thus also changing the required number of entry points. Of course, the faculty can manage with additional options, which skills are more valued or what is the relationship between graduation achievement and success during schooling. Nevertheless, consideration and caution should be exercised when it comes to the issue of language. I would not, however, resort to speculation and apriority about the fact that those who come from elsewhere are already automatically in a deprived position as regards their medical knowledge, as knowledge of the language will also have to be proved by someone who comes from the countries of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u32	Thank you. To begin with, I would like to point out that we would not come back to political divisiveness, which side is more right to speak of Article 7. We are talking about the three amendments to Article 7. The two amendments written by the SDS have little to do with the amendment written by the coalition. Only their second amendment has one piece of connection. So comparing who's better, who's worse, doesn't make sense. The first amendment to Article 7 of the SDS Group concerns two key issues. Now, let's stop philosophizing, but let's solve the essential question. The key question is: Does officially recognised knowledge of the Slovenian language as an integral part of the qualification granted to this foreign doctor, or does it not? That's an essential question. In its amendment, the SDS proposes that knowledge – at what level, I will not go into this – be an integral part of the recognised qualification of the Slovenian language. That's the point of the first part. And the whole point of the second part is who's going to give that confession. Is it someone because these "someone" we know a lot and there you can get it for maybe three kilos of good apples, or is it a recognised institution? That's an essential question. Who is the one who will give this recognition and whether this recognition is an integral part of the recognised classification. Let the expert judge that. But I don't think there's anything wrong with that. That there will be no misunderstandings, I will be in favour of this law because it solves the real problems in this country in the absence of doctors. If we turn to a regular ambulance visitor now, that's the way it is. If he comes, usually older people are sick and they like to walk most of the time, even for the sake of society, and also for the sake of health, to a general doctor, and it's a little hard to imagine if someone comes to a doctor and the doctor asks him, "Que Passa?" In Spanish, I will say to myself, and how should someone explain to him in the Slovenian language that he is in pain, I don't know, left kidneys and that he feels occasional kidney pain if he doesn't understand it. After what I've been listening to in this debate, I think this doctor should have someone with him to translate, which I find a little strange that you're going to be sitting there now, two or something, I don't know. Last but not least, a doctor who comes from abroad without knowledge of the Slovenian language must probably write or dictate a diagnosis. I'm looking at practice now. I can't imagine that if someone from one country who doesn't have any similarity to our language, it's a little easier to speak Serbian, etc., but there are other countries. So that's a very burning question. I wouldn't put anything here, not bad or good on one side. And the second question of the second amendment of the SDS Group. In fact, it touches on the 7th article of the coalition parliamentary groups, but the essence of this amendment is whether we are talking about the Minister taking account of the number of doctors from abroad on the basis of the needs of operators, namely health homes and hospitals, and the SDS amendment also suggests that the Minister is the one, but on the basis of someone else, for example, a local community that is not necessarily, although the health care provider is always in agreement with the healthcare home. Because the health care home has a health treasury that allows him to have so much and so much and dot. And usually a bat in a pinch. So, the health care home has its own policy and the local community has its own. The local community, which has a lot of local communities, knows the problems of shortages of doctors in villages, even in situations such as now and so on. There are these essential differences. As has already been said, these are not political questions, these are life issues that need to be taken into account if the Minister will explain how he will represent a doctor from abroad without any knowledge of Slovenian language to do this work, given the practical example I have given. I'd be happy to have him explain it to me. As for the other part, it is right that this is an institution that gives recognition, which has an official status of knowledge, because language is very important. You know, a very large comma means, "Kill, not pardon." But "Kill no, pardon." As far as the SDS requirement is concerned, I also think that there is nothing wrong with the Minister who will determine to listen not only to the performers but also to anyone else, but also to the Minister himself, who will tell him what he thinks about it. In any case, we will support the amendments of the SDS Group. If we get the right explanation, we will also support the amendment to Article 7 written by the ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I would ask myself – and I would go to the debate a little bit in this way – why we came to such a state that we lack doctors. It should also be pointed out to those responsible in this country who have led this policy in recent years. The question also arises among ordinary citizens if this situation is not caused by the medical lobby, by the fact that this place has been closed down and many very unpleasant things have been happening in this recent period. Then I wonder, did the medical school really have to limit these entries like that? Did only the most brilliant graduates really have to come to college when we know that they, with a little less brilliant success, would have just finished this study and today would not be in the same kind of trouble as we are. Now, if the university was unable to educate or carry out the study process, it should have strengthened itself. We should be able to strengthen ourselves and be able to make sure that we are not in a situation like this today. On the other hand, in general, I have absolutely no objection to helping you in this way, as you have decided to help, because from the past we also have many positive experiences with doctors who have come outside our environment. My doctor was one of the ones I have to say I respected him very much. I loved him. He's gone today. He's dead. But he was a great doctor, and he was also a great psychologist, and really, we got along very well with him, the whole family. And I think we have so much positive experience that we don't have to be afraid of it. But there are also negative experiences, of course there are negative experiences with doctors with any profession, regardless of where you come from and which nationality you belong to. I agree, however, that the Slovenian language must be mastered. I also agree with Mr Cukjati's words when he says, "You don't have to be a book language," but of course it is desirable if the language is as beautiful as possible, that we can communicate as easily and as beautifully as possible. And I am sure that those who will be interested in coming to Slovenia to work are here to create their work, life, family, that they will certainly be able to do this exam and learn it and that they will be interested in learning the Slovenian language as well. On the other hand, as regards working in mixed areas, in areas where there are minorities, this doctor will have to be in addition to the Slovenian language, his mother tongue, another foreign language, and meet the conditions required for the area where bilinguality is used. I would also say that it is difficult to be a doctor in Slovenia, in my opinion, because Slovenian citizens and citizens are very difficult and are not receptive to anyone. And to people who come from abroad, I think this tolerance will be even smaller. So let us also ask ourselves, let us be kind, respectful, helpful, and thus have good doctors, not just doctors, but other professions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Andrey Richter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying, as is the colleague in the introduction, that I am also in favour of the amendment to Article 7 tabled by the coalition parties, SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS. In particular, because it builds on the debate that has been held on the Committee and removes the shortcomings that have been observed and that we have also opened the debate. It is that the amendment provides for the handling of accepted requirements when we have more offers to work with no clear way forward. The amendment discusses this in the fifth and sixth indents of the material submitted. What I also think is smart is that everything is done in one place, namely the Ministry of Health. I must say, I am optimistic about the content that needs to be addressed in the long run. I very much agree that things are changing, but not least the need or the different state of health is changing, which is also due to the pace of our lives, and this makes it very difficult to plan for 10 years or more in advance the precise structure of doctors or their professions. For this is the basis of the health situation and the needs of us, the inhabitants of Slovenia. That is why I support this proposal. What some have also presented, however, is the beginning of the debate when we will have before us all health laws that will upgrade all of today's issues, including the fact that we have failed to establish networks in all these years - not least, all governments have had them, both in the primary and secondary areas. I must say that we are very close to each other here, which is why I am very pleased to discuss this further when we make decisions in this area. When we have an intervention law before us, let me just point out why the Government or the Ministry of Health have proposed this law at all. It was proposed because of the acute lack of doctors in Slovenia, due to matters that have taken place in the past. We also know that today it is very unfortunate to discuss that every year there is a limited admission to medical school, a dentistry that the programmes in Maribor will not come until a few years later. This is the situation, and therefore the intervention law, so that we can not last for the next year, at least a little, mitigate the shortage we are experiencing now. I am therefore surprised by this proposal and small talk, in my opinion, when we say that all those individuals who will be involved in the trial process should already be familiar with Slovenian language. I am myself an advocate of Slovenian language on every target and at all times. However, as described below, it is necessary to test the knowledge of the Slovenian language – namely, it is only the Faculty of Philosophy, the Department of Slovenian – and that this is the only right thing to do when we see that the competence is both professional and other, it is appropriate for a certain person, a doctor, to carry out the profession even in advance. And what builds on this is the content of the need to be protected, which also makes it possible for a doctor to leave the job in case of a derogation or acquisition of all these qualifications. For in this it is necessary to pay back all the costs which were not least invested in it. And I say myself, petty things, because when someone comes, of course, invited to Slovenia with a direct invitation, it's very hard to expect him to know a perfect Slovenian. That is why so much more needs to be asked of him after a professional knowledge test and, last but not least, an excellent knowledge of Slovenian, which will be the basis for communicating this also in the further work process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say, I will support the marriage. I also agree with the coalition amendments. Because in order to achieve the desired goal, we need to take more steps. This one is certainly the first, true, and determined in the right direction. Of course, this place should be aware of the reality in which we live. Doctors from Oxford and Cambridge are not waiting for Slovenian-Italian or any other borders, but we need to be aware of our reality that we want and our real range are doctors from less developed countries who will earn and live better in our employment than they do in their home country. One smart criterion would also be to keep Slovenian doctors fleeing abroad because they are better off there. I must tell you that a top X-ray, specialist operator or some, say, an anesthesiologist outside of the country, where he will work for a two-timer, a triple-timer of Slovenian wages, does not impose such strict restrictions as some with some other amendments to Article 7, because they know this is unrealistic. However, I would like to see such high targets achieved in the coming years, but this is less real and difficult. Language is certainly a very important category, but it is not always exclusive and the only one, so it is appropriate to be realistic enough here. Since I also met several colleagues from the Medical Faculty during my study, I have to say that in Slovenia we also have a few opportunities to produce a large number of good doctors at home. I remember some of my colleagues who, due exclusively to theoretical matters in the first and second years, gave up on their medical studies. And I'll tell you, if you don't have a little bit of perfectionist knowledge from some histology or biochemistry and where else, that they were personal and humanly mature to be perfect, quality and responsible Slovenian doctors, the way we want them at home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Dorian Marusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u40	Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Let me also say a little more from the explanations given your debate on what was the main reason for this bill's proposal. Of course, marriage has a political dimension or even a political act. However, in the drafting of the law and in the proposal, the basic aim of the proposal was to achieve regularity in the Slovenian health system on this issue. A number of minutes of the meetings will show that one of the most pressing issues, as well as the direction of the Minister with the team, was the arrangements for the staffing structure in the Slovenian health area. You're familiar with history. The decision we made in Slovenia is well known. It is true that only by regulating the number of doctors can we effectively regulate costs in the healthcare system. Where we are today is familiar to you. What numbers we have, what our health system is, you know, so I wouldn't lose words. However, it may be easier to discuss later or also your personal decision when you decide on the amendments, let me say something. It was also necessary to regulate the procedures for the recognition of qualifications by entering the European Union. And from that day forward, doctors in the world have been dividing Slovenia into two kinds of doctors: those who are from the European Union and those who are not from the European Union – we call them third countries. I'll use the term doctors for all four categories listed in the law. This means that a doctor, in particular, I have a colleague's proposal, a Slovenian citizen who has completed her studies of medicine and specialization in America and should follow the procedure, as recognised in Slovenia today for so-called third countries, after all the long-term procedures, despite the fact that a doctor of science is working on the Department and would like to return to Slovenia in some way, so that in some way I doubt that prominent experts would find no challenges to operate in the Slovenian health system. In short, we are dividing ourselves into those who are from the European Union and those who are not from the European Union, that is third countries. All those from the European Union are subject to so-called reciprocity, where language, knowledge, language knowledge is not a condition for entering the process, but is a condition for independent work. So when a doctor from European countries, Germany, Spain, France, all 27 and 26 visas from Slovenia and Switzerland with us signed an agreement with the European Union to enter Slovenia. At the time of the invitation to tender, the language shall not be discriminatory. Very simple to say – apply to Spanish and Slovenianc, both doctors, in selecting Slovenian language knowledge must not be exclusion criteria. Of course, when such a doctor starts working in the Slovenian space, he needs to know Slovenian. This is checked by the employer. The Minister's intention was that third-country nationals who receive a guarantee letter from Slovenian operators, i.e. Slovenia has actually declared that "such a doctor, such a doctor, such a doctor of dental medicine or a specialist needs". This is in some ways equivalent to the citizens of the European Union and placed in the health system in accordance with procedures. This means that, while the procedure is under way, even with us, it does not work on its own, that means that it has a mentor around it all the time. When he began to work alone, however, the minister did not imagine that he would not speak Slovenian and in some way want to save what tormented him all his 21 years working in the Slovenian health area. To make knowledge of Slovenian one of the characteristics of all those operating in the healthcare system directly with patients. In addition, as Minister, I have set another important criterion. This is knowledge of medicine or dentistry. This is why the Commission needs to check the knowledge of this material, otherwise we could allow even quality, security in the Slovenian healthcare area to be reduced. The whole process we've been studying since high school. I've been studying. The interest in medical studies in Slovenia is not declining. That is why I have not proposed specific measures here. It's a later step. Many meetings with representatives of the Faculty, unfortunately Slovenian health system, not only educational, but also health system where doctors acquire knowledge, skills, can no more than the promised 30 places of entry in the school 2011/2012 School of Medicine. That's what the two deans told me was the best we can do today. Maybe we'll have to start thinking about third grade. However, let me say that the Slovenian health system, health care homes, hospitals are not able to perform so many exercises that more students can be educated, and therefore this possibility has been offered that for the missing cities known to us today in health homes, hospitals, in concessionaires, this number should be around 500, the leaders in these institutions could get people from the so-called third countries, have a proper conversation with them, and commit the candidate to work with us after the process has been completed. And we give the language knowledge when it starts working in the health system. If it is a specialist – before he starts to work on his own, if it is a candidate who will apply for an invitation to tender that the minister will sign each year, of course, when he becomes employed. That's the difference. But let me tell you, when I was preparing the whole process with my colleagues, I was also following the most prominent countries in the world and consulting with all the many, I called the dean, I called the medical organizations, somehow we agreed that this is the most effective process if we actually have an interest in hiring you. In short, the Minister's intention was to align this candidate in some way with the citizens of the European Union and to follow a comparable procedure, which is further checked externally for the citizens of the European Union, which is not necessary for the citizens of the European Union, requires the knowledge of the Slovenian language at their own work and that everything takes place in one place regulated by the law, because the procedures in the Slovenian space lasted for such candidates for two to three years, as well as the costs for individual candidates for 40 thousand. And I think, if I decide that – which we discussed widely on the committee – you have even helped me install one of the concerns that I had. So that I would not have free hands as a minister or those who would later, so that I could actually open the market and release the market for 2, 3, 5 thousand places for doctors, would set limits. I think that the amendments of the SD, DeSUS, LDS and really kind of round them up. But what we've been sneezing at the SDS amendment is now spreading so much that I don't know how manageable that would be. Whether we have a network or not, it's not the subject of this law. Is the Minister saving the health system with this law? Of course not, it solves another problem in small mosaics to regulate human resources policy in a health system that has not been adequately addressed so far. With this amendment, it may be too wide. The public health network today relies on public operators or private operators with concessions, their current staffing structures are known, and pension projections are also known. This is currently the only criterion on which we can manage personnel in the Slovenian space. One of the silent commitments I made as Minister is that, at the conclusion of the mandate, we might have a strategy of the healthcare system by 2020, we are working on this, but this is a somewhat longer process. Let me say that a rare country has or would not be able to list them in the European space which has such a strategy. The World Health Organization has developed a principle of how to do this. Slovenia is in this group, we will probably get the tools, how we will know all that is also mentioned in the amendment, the needs of citizens, put in some projections for the future. Believe me, if, over the next three years, based on the information provided by the operators, alert, casual monitoring, both at the Ministry and with the medical organisations, we can assess the number of places left for entry from the so-called third countries, it is entirely enough to create and open these cities. Earlier, I would be afraid that someone would freely open this market, but in some ways also the production of doctors outside Europe or even in the European space is not such as to be afraid of too much influence. In short, I think that the law brings the regulatory mechanism to allow, when the needs of these doctors are placed in the health system, we may also see what time will show, solving the problem of government areas. In fact, anyone who receives a guarantee letter will have to work for a certain period in this environment. That's not what happened today. It requires knowledge and expertise of medicine, dentistry and knowledge of the Slovenian language when such a doctor becomes self-employed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to go to Article 7? Mr. Dr. Tuckyat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. The information provided by the minister was very welcome, but this explanation does not prove that our amendments are unnecessary. First of all, with regard to knowledge of Slovenian language. If the candidates coming are required, the adjustment period is, say, 12 months of training or even specialisation. Yes, Minister, you know that work, training and specialization, that's work with patients. I do not understand how such a person will work during the adjustment period for one year without the knowledge of the Slovenian language. Good, because he's going to learn something in the middle, but as for communication with patients, one would expect knowledge before starting a specialization, before starting this period of complementary training, which is, of course, training on the patient. on the patient, it's not just from the books. Books can be in English, because they're mostly in English. This is about the Slovenian language. If the amendment is not adopted, it will not be adopted, so we will not be against the law. But there's gonna be a hole, something flawed. Second. As regards, in fact, the amendment of the coalition, which states that each year the Minister shall determine the needs based on the needs of the operators, the annual quota of those who are to come from abroad. Based on the needs of the performers. These needs will, of course, be given in writing and the Minister will be able to take this into account. It's legal. That's all. What does that mean? During the transitional period or in Article 34, the coalition even says that it sets up a minister, of course now in a transitional period of fifteen days, on the basis of the needs of the operators for the call for specialisations. These operators shall, if they are normal and well managed by a hospital or other institution, request a medical specialised clinic four years in advance of their needs. At least four years earlier. Yes, but you will now take these needs into account, and on the basis of these needs, which will only be four years from now, specialists will be imported next year. I don't know. Once again, we believe that we would leave it open for the Minister to, of course, also take into account the needs of the performers, probably in principle, but also the needs of the local communities, including the needs that appear and are reported to the enlarged professional college and so on. [[...]] Well, if you think it's better that you're trapped in one scheme that's not appropriate, it's narrow, it's inappropriate and it's not appropriate and it's not necessary until four years later, in five years, then we'll just get rid of such a scar, but it's inappropriate and probably the next minister will change it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u44	Dear Mr. Cuckoo, I'll give you my answer. Look, the procedure is completely familiar. In fact, operators prepare the needs for the current situation and also the projection in advance, and so also this gap between the individual numbers that appear. If you only take into account the needs of performers, there are about a thousand 800 doctors in Slovenia. But since there's a thousand 200 in the resident system, there's a real need over 500. The process of filling cities takes place, I think we both know this way, so that performers can present how many doctors they could hire if they had what it requires to be specialists. And that's where we split up again. Some are talking about lack of doctors, some are talking about lack of specialists. In fact, only a specialist can act alone in the European space. And these are probably 500, 550, as far as the last numbers tell us the difference between the needs of the performers if we subtract the specialists. Again, the law is also set up to fill those places that are actually reported by operators today and could already be filled within the means they have. And I don't imagine and I hope we won't either – given that we decided to go to another medical school or that it's not peorative, that we have two medical colleges, that we have known some personnel projections – we've been filling our needs in the next five or ten years just like that, without some strategy. That is why, as Minister, even in the debate on the committee, I have impeded the SDS amendment to set the upper limit so that the Minister does not have free time to decide for himself how many cities he will release. That used to be the danger you felt. In fact, with other amendments, we are some of the other guardians that I wanted to put into law so that this would not be a free door to enter this staff and that quality and security could be reduced. The amendment, presented by the four parties to the coalition, I think it is quite sufficient and gives this fuse so that maybe we can fill some of these cities that are now hot. In any case, let me say that we are also performing projections for the future that this is not simple matter. In 2003, after a wide discussion in the Slovenian space, a projection of the increase of doctors in the Slovenian space was adopted. Today there are so many in the Slovenian space as we predicted for 2017, so we counted for about seven years, so the needs in the Slovenian space, the wider the European space, have increased. And that's pretty complicated stuff. In the screenings that we did immediately after my arrival at the Ministry, we took into account and added new doctors coming from the Faculty of Medicine in Maribor, adding all possible other factors that influence, unfortunately, one part we do not yet know exactly what entering a wider European space means in terms of leaving young doctors, young doctors and young doctors in the European area. We don't know exactly how to install this parameter yet. Too often it's just about specialists leaving. But given that a curriculum study in both colleges allows for the last year of study abroad, we may have a larger outflow than we have considered so far. And unfortunately, after six or eight months, we still don't know exactly how to put it into projection. In short, I believe that the fuses that were installed here are sufficient for us to sign up or allow access to doctors from so-called third countries in a limited number in 2011 and 2012 to the extent that today's needs are in fact, or to the extent that today's operators are supposed to have jobs and resources in some way for foreign doctors. However, in order to open the door in some way, I would plead that we would not go into such revolutionary changes and that we would keep a certain security guard, which I think is necessary and necessary in the health system.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 7? I guess not. We're going to the amendment to Article 20. Anybody want to talk? This is the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Article 20 speaks of what a candidate is obliged to do or what the Ministry prescribes if he does not meet all the conditions. It refers to the preceding article. Indeed, the first paragraph of the preceding article states that if a candidate from one of the third countries or countries of the former Yugoslavia meets the conditions laid down in Article 9, that is to say education, experience and the like, the Commission shall give him a positive opinion. That's quite clear, that's very good. Indeed, under these conditions, reference is made to Article 3 and Article 7 also requires proof of a good name which is of great importance in the medical circles of Central and Western Europe. And as stated in Article 3, "The proof of a good name proves that in his country the doctor has been registered as a doctor, that he has no professional prohibition and is able to carry out his profession." On the basis of this evidence and all the medical certificates from the Faculty of Medicine, say, Pristina or Nis, and specialized in this proof of a good name, all the conditions are met, it is disconnected, it can be employed immediately as a doctor. What's the danger? First, there's a risk of education. Here he says, "which fits", the medical faculty in Nis, for example, corresponds to the content of education in Slovenia. There's nothing in the law that says that someone should have determined it, as it's been known so far. What if it doesn't fit? No one's gonna find out. The second thing is proof of a good name. This evidence is possible and only works where we have a quality medical room that controls the entire system or membership in the Chamber is mandatory, where the Chamber of Licences takes away licences and so on and takes care of permanent professional supplementation and so on. These chambers, such as those in Central and Western Europe, are not in these countries, except Zagreb, and this one has its own, I will not speak ill of them, but certainly the proof of a good name from these countries does not have the weight it has in Europe. And, of course, it is also questionable here whether, I would say, we recognize the faculty and content that has been done in good faith, as required in the European Union, where the movement of personnel is unlimited, where in the European Union someone has carried out an appropriate education, because we know that the quality of college in these countries of the former Yugoslavia is very different. For this reason, it would be good to have some very easy way of controlling the good name of a cat not to buy in a jacket, because it is not only proof of the appropriateness of a person for a doctor, it is not only a matter of a college education which may be, I will say very badly, it can also be bought, and in recent years the Medical Chamber has discovered quite a few false diplomas, a few false diplomas from the Republic of the former Yugoslavia. The person should be checked directly when working with the patient in the mentor's infirmary. I don't know why we're so afraid. We therefore propose very simply, including to those people who have all these documents, which we assume are authentic, prescribe no more than a three-month trial period or, as it says here, an adjustment period when they work under the supervision of the mentor. With this entry into the Slovenian space, nothing is burdened, but it is one of the last of these documents and papers that the mentor sees whether any serious error has been made, where a major flaw has been detected, any inappropriate attitude towards patients. I'll tell you that fake diplomas began to explore where the nurse found out what nonsense the doctor had done. This is said to be nothing more than a three-month, 12-month, three-month training in these cases. With regard to Article 19, since Article 20 refers to Article 19, I would like to ask the Minister another question. In fact, in the second paragraph, he says: "If the applicant has not completed the study, he shall be prescribed up to 12 months of training..." and so on. If the study has not been completed, what does this study mean? Does that mean he didn't even do college or something? I ask only for the explanation of the text of the second paragraph of Article 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u47	Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u48	Dear Mr. President Tuckati! First answer to the first part. I think that this is unnecessary and that the law fully transposes the current procedure with additional conditions. For those candidates from the so-called third countries – I will insist on this term, and the word "thirds" very much bothers me – who have been found to meet all the conditions, both as regards study and duration of specialization, so far. With the medical organisations, with the President of the Medical Chamber, with the President of the Medical Society, with all the representatives of the Faculty, we have agreed to transfer the procedure in force today to this law and add a so-called declaration of good opinion, which is not fully placed in some countries, not only in third countries, but also in European Union countries. That's why we finished it. In short, it is those doctors who fully meet the conditions, both as regards the study and the duration of the specialisation and everything else. And this is determined by the Commission, which is in the same composition as now, the difference is that this commission will act in some way within the Ministry and the composition is exactly the same. We have also reduced the Commission's coordination to so many members and to those carriers, as is the case today for all those involved in this process. An explanation for paragraph 19. It's about those who might not do it all. In short, a specialist doctor from third countries will be dealt with on a committee. The Commission will examine his curriculum study, his specialisation curriculum, exactly as it is today. In doing so, it will request a declaration of good name and will therefore decide whether to give him up to 12 months of education in the healthcare system, so in some way 'despecialisation', it may also have to meet certain additional conditions. Or she will decide to complete everything, and she will say, we will recognize his specialization and be able to fit into the system. What you require is a transitional period of three months, not least any employer in the Slovenian space of use, use, I will not say "use", "use" and employ him for a certain period of time. I also hope that employers will use all the tools that are in labour law. In short, the article was created in a good examination of the current procedure. In the current process, we have put in place a statement of good opinion, added it with certain indents, because it is not everywhere, and we have passed on the same composition of the commission to the law and we are transferring the same burden to that commission. With duly appointed experts in the Slovenian space, this Commission should decide whether such a doctor knows or does not know his own specialty and prescribe or prescribes an additional education up to 12 months or just admits a specialty and leaves him in the healthcare system so that employers can hire him. So it's the exact same procedure as before, with what you mentioned yourself. I think this is the right way. Due to great mobility in the European space, a so-called declaration of good name has been put in place, as some doctors can quickly trace their mistakes by means of mobility between countries. I think I listened very well here and put this in this law, so that we wouldn't happen by chance, that someone would run into Slovenia, get a proper specialization here and continue their bad work.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u49	Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. Mr Minister, when meeting the conditions of Article 19(1), we are discussing this, that is to say, when it is determined on the basis of the documents that he has brought and the examinations of the study and the like, not only that he can work with the employer and the employer has hired him, as you said, for a certain period of time, where he can still be tested at work and you expect the employer to do so. Before, then, after this law you're proposing, he'll be licensed without trial. It's not like that. License. He's not a visiting doctor with us, and then he'll go. No, no, no. He enters our system with a license, and if this employer finds out that he's unfit for work, he'll go to another employer, he'll find another job. Because he will have a license to work in Slovenia. For this reason, we believe that before he gets the license, he should go, not in other cases, as planned for up to 12 months of training, that is to say, somewhere under the supervision of the mentor, because he will already work, but under the supervision of the mentor, that even before he gets the licence, he should go through a three-month period. This is not an extension of the procedure. The main problem with the current entry of a foreign doctor was administrative matters and you are very well, thank God, you have really reduced them here to a minimum. That's why we're going to accept this, this law, we're only going to point out a very delicate matter. Mr Minister, you know very well when a Slovenian student goes through a study procedure, through practical work, through training, through specialization, is in everyone's sight, everyone knows him, and if he had an impossible relationship with a pediatrician, like a pedophile, he would have shown himself long ago, it would have been a long time ago. In these cases, however, when we get a cat in a jacket, we feel that it would not hurt to go through a three-month adjustment period before issuing the licence. After all, I would also have perfected the Slovenian language there, would have also known our system, lived a little with patients, with Slovenian mentality. That wouldn't hurt.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u51	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u52	I'd rather avoid commenting on some of the comments. I will only re-explain – the law before you is breaking the current order. We can say with joy, satisfaction or resentment: it has not happened that anyone has come to Slovenia without a few months of additional education, despite having been able to meet all the criteria. The Commission, which is appointed, will have to carry out its work in accordance with the appointment and full responsibility. In a way, your amendment puts a shadow on the committee. Again, the Commission, which was appointed under the Medical Service Act for the so-called third countries, had to be defined until the study, until the specialisations, to the knowledge that this candidate has and prescribes to him up to 12 months of circulation, according to the domestic statement, and possibly even an additional examination. That's today, too. However, you would like a precedent to find in Slovenia that only those countries have so much knowledge would give such a person three more months. So far, in the Slovenian space of the Commission, which has dealt with this, it has not been abandoned. The Commissions will be exactly the same, but under all the conditions that they have to examine so far, they will have to see whether they have a good name certificate. Countries that do not have this will have to continue to fulfil the indents, i.e. on impunity and the like, and then, on the basis of knowledge, behaviour, medicine, specialisation, they will decide whether to leave it directly to the system or to set it up for up to 12 months of education and perhaps even an additional examination. Thus, this is only a transfer from the current procedure, a transfer to this law and does not change in any way, except for an additional, more acute condition. I think that fear is too great or that even you doubt that the commission that has so far worked on my high level will now act very badly, but it is the same composition. So it's not about doctors from the Ministry, it's about doctors who are properly placed according to their knowledge, position in the Slovenian health area for particular specialties. These members of this commission, who will decide on the knowledge, behaviour of these candidates, and if the individual fulfils everything, will let him go into the health system, but the employer may be able to define all those concerns that arise to you through the contract of employment of this specialist.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u54	Mr Minister, indeed, so far the Commission has had the opportunity to require additional completion, circulation, etc., according to its opinion. Now it is written in this law if it meets all these formal conditions, the Commission or the Commission gives a positive opinion. So no flexibility, no openness – and that's the catch.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u55	I conclude the debate on this Article on Article 20. We are moving on to the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 23, which is essentially related to Article 20. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. We are moving on to the last amendment, this is the amendment of the coalition parties to Article 34. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. With regard to this amendment, which states that within fifteen days of the entry into force of this law, the Minister shall, on the basis of the needs of the operators submitted to the Medical Chamber of Slovenia for the invitation to tender for specialisations for 2011, set the upper limit for the number of offers for work in Slovenia. Since the Minister has expressed the view that the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups is good, he would ask him how he intends to set a ceiling on the number of tenders based on these needs. Indeed, this call for specialisations for the following year shows the needs that will arise for operators in five years' time. What does this mean as a starting point and as the only starting point for making an offer in five years, the needs over five years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u57	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u58	For 2011, the procedure will be as described earlier. The procedure is under way. Every year, the Medical Chamber, under the public authority of the Ministry of Health, invites all operators to announce the need for specialties. On the basis of these needs, on the basis of projections and knowledge of individual specialties, compare also with the European premises the Medical Chamber prepares an annual invitation to tender. Following discussions in the last month, the figure to be discussed in 2011 is around 500. So, there should be so many missing places for specialists if they were available for employment in Slovenian health care. How am I supposed to work? In such a way that the Ministry, as it should probably have in the past, will place itself in the search for the needs of the operators and verify the reality of these needs, take into account available doctors who have completed the university and, on the basis of this, draw up, as envisaged in the amendments, the upper limit of the number of doctors who could reach the Slovenian health area. Last but not least, this way we get to the vacancies of specialists in the Slovenian health area for every year. If the dynamics are as good as they could be, I have said what is the problem with planning human resources policy in the coming years, if we take everything into account, this number will be close or real for each year. If the amendment stipulates that, at the end of the year or before the end of the year, the Minister shall place the ceiling at the end of the year, I think it is an important safeguard. If there was such a rush, those candidates who exceeded this number would simply not be allowed to enter the Slovenian health area. If we, in short, had 500 arrivals of specialist doctors of individual specialties shown by the operators, then all the missing cities in the Slovenian health area would have been filled and then we could only create through specialization invitations what we somehow all want to reflect in the actual needs of citizens, not the needs of performers, in order to provide in some way an appropriate composition of specialists in the Slovenian health area to the current network today, both in large and rural areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u59	Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Certainly your answer is more lifelike than it is in the law. I'm glad, and we won't worry about you if you act a little differently in this case than the law says. However, it would probably also be wise to check the needs of four years ago when the specialisations of those who are now graduating and how many of these registered specializations have been met or how few have appeared. Because the main problem with us is that specializations are being signed and there are no candidates. It is likely that from these calculations, from the previous calls for specialisations and the past implementations of the seats listed, we would find out how much we really need them today. So, once again, I'm glad you're going over what the marriage says, because it's more of a life thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u62	Dear Mr Cuckati, I am pleased to discuss this with you. The question is, are you interested? But in any case, even in the explanation of the law, we have clearly written to you what would be one of the great problems: the imbalance between supply and demand. With the legal changes we left the call open, that is, when there was a need for a specialist, that is to say, to open a specialised city, this city remained open. You also have this on the other side of the law, numbers that actually show how many graduates today could be placed in the system. But we're talking about different things; that's how many specialists we need. Only a specialist may act alone in the European space. And like we said in the figures, today would be a necessity. The gap between the needs and between the polled cities and the filled is what diplomats would need today. So if we could fill these cities with almost 260 missing candidates, so if we could give both colleges another generation of the whole study at the moment, then we could have these needs filled for a certain period of time, then with certain new criteria for the needs of citizens according to disease, given the longevity of the Slovenes and Slovenes, we could create this differently. In short, we can conclude that there are about 250 here, somewhere, specialists needed today in the Slovenian space or so-called diplomats; and another, the number that I have mentioned on several occasions is the number of specialists that could be employed today by operators according to the programme they have, given the extent of the work they are doing, in view of today's organisation of 24-hour healthcare or continuous healthcare, and this is kind of the necessary number they would have. With your amendments you even increased this, my fear was and doubts on the committee, I also in some way thanked you for setting the ceiling so that no one would decide in the future to open maybe two, three, four thousand places for doctors in the Slovenian space and actually have unemployed doctors in the Slovenian space. I have also considered some measures when we were preparing the law, but they immediately taught me that this would be discriminatory. And I believe that with the guardians – and if the amendments, as prepared by a group of four parties, are supported, then the guardians placed in the law are sufficient to be able to manage slightly more effectively the candidates of the so-called third countries who would like to work in the Slovenian space either as specialists or as specialists in vacant jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u63	Mr. Mag. Grims, would you like to discuss the amendment to this article? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. The problem we're facing today is not from yesterday. The fact is, in Slovenia, it has been a very long artificial restriction on admission to medical school and today the situation is the same as it is. The additional problem is that some of the best doctors, due to better working conditions, more career options or simply higher wages go abroad. And that problem has gotten worse. I don't believe what Mr. Minister has just said to be unemployed doctors – where to be! The problem is that the staff, not just the doctor's, including the highly qualified nurses and all the other staff, is lacking in us; and this is increasingly so. That is why I do not understand that, in the work of the Government, the Ministry of Higher Education insists on this wrong policy, and that even with the new funding rule, the current state of affairs is about to become concrete if one college increases the number of students, which does not mean that it will automatically receive higher funds. This can further potentiate the problem and further exacerbate it. The second option is the one proposed today, and we have said a lot about it that it opens an additional door to doctors and all other experts in the medical field from third countries. In practice, this means mainly from the Balkan area, but here, frankly, some of us just remember, because we are as old as it used to be in Yugoslavia, I don't want to judge whether today is exactly the same, but I remember very well the joke from that period from some town out there far south: "Good day dear passengers on the bus, we came into this and this city. Here they have great baklava, you can buy a good baklava, but you can buy a diploma from the medical school, or a specialty, or a master's degree, or a doctorate. We've got two hours, so you can sort all this out by the time we move on." And how much truth is in this joke? You know, They say there's half the truth in every joke. And I am personally very concerned, especially because – I don't know why – she didn't want to accept this deadline offered earlier by Dr. Tuckati and covered in the SDS amendment, because this would also introduce an additional guard so that there would be no harmful consequences, because I am afraid that this problem will be ever greater because of the circumstances I have mentioned. And if the rush brings irreparable consequences – ladies and gentlemen, it is medicine! Here are irreparable consequences for health, even for human life. And then I wonder, Mr Minister, whether if this happens if there will be a real reduction in standards due to objective circumstances, because of all these provisions of the law, you will accept responsibility and resign if there are irreparable consequences. This should be of great concern to us today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u65	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u66	Dear Mr Grimes, not only that, but even more. When I took an oath in the National Assembly, I took full responsibility for my work, according to my knowledge, skills, and abilities. I believe that today and in the future I will only work for the welfare of the Slovenes and the Slovenians. Just let me be allowed to do something, because this problem is being very banalized. Look, we're gonna have to take the size of Slovenians and Slovenes, but we've got some problems. Very simple to tell you: the generation in the Slovenian study year is about 300 students of medicine. Three or even four years have direct contact in the system, so we have about a thousand students. And simply, the health system, because these exercises are carried out in the hospital health system, can no more students. Because there are about 3,000 doctors working in hospitals, even a few fewer doctors, when we give it to specialists, about one student comes to two doctors. And today, because both Deans have provided me with a larger entry in the following year, today some students from Ljubljana and Maribor are already practicing far away from these two places, say Primorske or anywhere. Capacity in the system, not just the school system, in the health system, is fulfilled for the exercise and unfortunately we cannot produce more than so many students. This provided both Deans, all the medical organizations. My wish, of course, and the first step was, unfortunately you were not at first [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I think that what we have learned before is that in the past there has been a gap between supply and demand, that is true. However, it is incomprehensible that even in Ljubljana’s medical school, at least the rector advocated a few years ago that more than a hundred students cannot be enrolled in the medical school, but today they can be enrolled in one hundred and eighty. That's what they say. At the time, something was deliberately blocked. I also hope with all the responsibility to say that he deliberately blocked the start of a study at the University of Maribor – planned for at least one year. In the National Assembly, we pointed out this, and I told the committee that in the year that we had the most pressure to start the entry, because everything was ready, the then Minister of Health went to talk to his Zagreb colleague about cooperation. This is completely wrong! And there are documents, written documents! So some people don't have to wrap their eyes. That something is being stopped, I hope to claim it at this very moment. We will discuss this at a special session, when European funds are also provided, and this large European funds, for the construction of a new medical university in Maribor, and it has been two years since something is being blocked: whether it is not a real construction provider, it is not ours, probably, or something like that. However, the European funds, I fear they will no longer be useful in order for this deadline to fall. Of course, no one will worry about it, at least not with this government, because no one will take responsibility anyway. Everyone's talking about how perfect everything is, and then when we get into a situation, they say they didn't know about it, or whatever it is that concerns me. So I hope with all my responsibility to say that this problem has not been the case since yesterday and that in the past it has been blocked that our only medical faculty, then the only one, could have been bigger. This has now proved that without some major investment, it can almost double the entry, that the study will probably be just as quality, and I hope to say that it will be more quality than possible in a so-called third country where they will certainly not meet such standards. And as far as that is concerned, I fully agree with what my forerunner has said in this regard, what has been done in three hours of waiting at the airport to buy in a particular country. That was said a little in a joke, but for that joke, unfortunately, practice has shown that it holds. So I have great concerns about this whole law of accession, but because we do nothing to build a new university of medicine in Maribor, this is essential for study. That's why I'm here. Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on this amendment to Article 34 as well as the debate on the amendments. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments to the system of payments in the public sector, following an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Madam Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u70	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! The new law on the public sector wage system, as is the case with you, or the harmonisation of the salary scale, has resulted in an intervention law that has also brought for public servants in 2011 the pay of an individual to be aligned with inflation up to one quarter. As projected inflation is 2.2 percentage points, the individual, depending on his salary, will be kept to a real value of 0.55%. On this occasion, honourable Members and Members, and on the basis of statements, including on the Internal Policy Committee, I would like to reiterate that the intervention law, which has previously set out the alignment of wages with the inflation of public servants up to 25%, has significantly more affected the salaries of public servants than it will be possible to hear today as a result of this speaker. If the Government did not reach an agreement in the social dialogue with more than 75 000 civil servants, it should provide an additional 300 million euros for progress, payment of work performance and so on. In view of the understanding of public servants that the public financial situation does not allow for additional debt due to an increase in wages, such an agreement has been successfully reached for the third time. Take a look at the forecasts of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. There is no increase in the salaries of public servants in 2010. This is also due to the agreement concluded in 2009 and only 0.65% of the real value of the individual's income has been maintained due to up to half of the inflation coordination in 2010. Gross wage growth in the public sector is significantly lower in 2010 than in the real sector due to understanding public servants and successful social dialogue agreements. However, in 2011, the individual’s basic salary will not remain at the 2010 level, only its real value will be maintained by a quarter, as you will conclude today and as already agreed and the text in the intervention law is the same. Individual budget users will also have to provide funds under their budget lines of labour for this harmonisation. Not only for this harmonisation, because you have not accepted the amendment when adopting the budget, MEPs and Members to raise revenue. By largely saving on labour costs, both in terms of overtime payments, increased workload, non-replacement of those leaving the environment, we will have to do the same or even more with significantly fewer people. We will have to save an additional 3 to 5% on average in the area of labour costs, each budget user, at the same time that the individual's salary has been stagnated. The analysis that we have done at our ministry has shown that we will need to take into account, in fact, the merger of internal organisational units, the reduction of positional allowances, which, lastly, this Parliament has confirmed, the highest positional allowance from 20 to 12%, we will have to rationalise our operations in all segments so that in 2011 we will be able to survive with the mass we have in the budget for labour costs. Never in this country has there been as much savings in labour costs as it will have to be in 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Vink Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered this proposal at its 44th urgent meeting on 10 December 2010; the applicant is the Government and the procedure is urgent, as set out in the College of the President of the National Assembly. However, the documents we had before us were, of course, a proposal for a law, an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, an opinion by the Council of State and an amendment by the Group of Ambassadors. If I miss the opening presentation, which the Minister or State Secretary had also given there, it was similar to the one we heard from the Minister, let me say that the Legal and Legislative Service, in presenting its opinion, said that there were no comments on the text submitted in terms of the substantive solutions and that a nomological correction of Article 1 was needed. The Committee was also given the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for State Procedure, presented by Mr Vnučec, and is in terms of supporting the proposal for a law. Mr Posedi, the leader of the trade union negotiating group, who was also present, expressed general criticism of the way in which open issues and the pay system are addressed. Let me add that I also later adopted Mr Strukl's protest on why he was not invited. I must explain that I invited those who wanted to come and who announced their presence. Members of the coalition parliamentary groups supported the bill, while members of the opposition parliamentary groups did not object themselves to the resolution of the bill, but we pointed out all the things that had happened before, from the statement of public servants, to the amendment of the law which had brought about a different quorum. After the discussion, the Committee adopted the amendment to Article 1 of the Delegation Group; otherwise, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Branko Grims on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u74	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! According to the international magazine The Economist Slovenia is no longer a country full of democracy. This knowledge should not surprise anyone if we know what is happening in this country with some fundamental values such as social partnership and social dialogue. With the law before us today, the government has even written down the starting point of this law, quote: "In the Member States of the European Union, the standard of social dialogue in the process of harmonising public sector wages is generally established." We certainly all agree, and this is one of the fundamental democratic norms of a modern united Europe. What about this in Slovenia? It was really fun to listen to the committee when we discussed this law, how it felt to support and support these solutions covered by this law. This law only supports seven trade unions in this area and is opposed by more than 20, namely 23 trade unions. And yet, the government is putting social dialogue at the heart of this. Why? Because, at the beginning of its term of office, that same authority changed the criteria by amending the law and stated that something could already be considered to be harmonised if certain headquarters voted for it, provided that they covered a certain number of people or employees in the same sector. Given the specific area of public administration, the public sector, we could just write down which union this is, and whose son-in-law must be the president of that headquarters, and the matter would be exactly the same as if those criteria were written in there. It's clear to everyone what this is really about. But it's actually a manipulation. In order to manipulate all those unions that represented people in the public sector, where wage coordination has not yet been carried out, where there has therefore been no reform in the part of which employees have taken part of their salary and have been committed to equalising or eliminating wage imbalances in the part of the public sector in which they were employed. This self - denial was not short - lived. It took years. It was a huge amount of money. In some parts of the public sector, this has then been done and, of course, in those with this general, with a general, equal raise, the representatives of their trade unions headquarters agree, but all the others, ladies and gentlemen, the vast majority of trade unions, three times as many as those who support this law, have been played. It is not the worst thing that these trade unions, trade unions, have been played, the worst thing is that employees have been played, people's confidence in the rule of law, that some promises and agreements in public dialogue, social dialogue, social partnership are in place; everything has collapsed, destroyed and failed. This is not a policy worthy of support. This will certainly result in a conflict between unionists, among employees, people's discontent will be even greater than it is now. Why the Government of some of the recently drawn and fully consensus in the context of the social partnership of the agreed reforms is making it easy to give up, I do not know, for the benefit of some and for the detriment of others. And that, unfortunately, is an unforgivable fact. For this reason, of course, we can say that we support a law that means raising wages for all, but on the other hand, a policy that means eradicating social partnership, one of the fundamental not only Slovenian, even constitutional values, but fundamental European values, such a policy does not deserve support. This is why we will abstain from voting on this law in the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u75	Mr Aloise Potočnik has the floor, on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u76	Thank you. Your Honor! The main objective of the Public Sector Wages Act is to comply urgently with the Law on Intervention Measures and Agreements on Measures in the Field of Wages and Other Benefits in the Public Sector for 2011 and 2012, which was signed with representative public sector trade unions. This is not to be overlooked, however, that both the intervention law and the agreement received unusually strong measurements of power and consent, which granted legality to solutions and instruments. But the story, which, by the way, goes back there in the summer and autumn of 2008, cannot be repeated. The facts and consequences, even very serious, are clear and documented by numbers.: The imbalances have not been resolved, new imbalances have emerged and some groups have benefited more than others. Bad! In the autumn economic forecast, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development predicted and the Government confirmed the increase in the price of living needs in the Republic of Slovenia in 2011 of 2.2%, which is the basis for the calculation of an increase of 0.55%. In the public sector, this will amount to €20.4 million in 2011 and €22.3 million in the coming years. The funding will be provided by the state budget, the budgets of local communities and both institutions – for the health insurance of Slovenia and pension and disability insurance. The room of manoeuvre is narrow and shows that everything has been done with regard to public wages. Those who, under the terms "consulted" with a more flexible policy should be told to continue this extended fiscal policy, which is also strongly opposed by the Fiscal Council of the Republic of Slovenia in the last report. There are no ideal solutions between the pay system and social protection. It's optimal what people accept with a sense of justice. We have already weighed this relationship in intervention measures. We are assessing it as publicly sustainable and will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Sector Wage System Act. Critics: When you take responsibility, please do not repeat in 2008, which is one of the biggest public financial affairs in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u77	Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, the distinguished representative of the government! According to the Slovenian People's Party, the state of economic activity in Slovenia is still worrying, if not even more than at the beginning of the crisis. Despite the fact that there is a sign of recovery here and there, especially due to the better situation in export activities, we are still far from facing an economic crisis. Several times it has been found that public sector costs have not been reduced during this period. However, the failure to maintain this situation by the private economic sector is currently being resolved by additional debt. However, despite the fact that we are now coordinating wages only at 25% with the rate of rising prices of living needs, we cannot ignore the fact that, despite all the promises of savings and measures taken, we are actually raising wages now, not by any progressive scale, but by just a fixed percentage. This will not significantly help those public servants who receive the lowest wages, but will be the biggest absolute difference in salaries in the highest wage classes. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have already stressed the entire mandate that the public sector must share the fate of the private sector, both in good and in bad. The number of unemployed will soon exceed 104 000 and I strongly doubt that the rise in this number will stop, as a number of economic sectors are still in great difficulty. From this point of view, the Slovenian People's Party also sees some of the more than 20 million euros per year planned to harmonise the public sector's salaries as not negligible. We could list countless options where this money could be spent on direct economic incentives. We've checked the numbers, and it's already a vague view that says that the number of public servants, instead of shrinking by a percentage per year, slowly but unrestrainedly. From December 2008 to April 2010, it increased by a good percentage and a half. Although the current government has managed to narrow down the administration somewhat, government services and administrative units, which are in its direct competence, not ministries where 326 more employees are employed. In the public sector, average gross wages have risen by 32% in 6 years and it is more worrying that the wage gap between the private and public sectors is steadily increasing in absolute terms. In 2004, public servants earned an average of €350 more than private sector workers, and this year this difference is already €430. The number of employees in the public sector in Slovenia is still rising, while the average in the European Union is falling. Otherwise, in the Slovenian People's Party, we feel that the salaries of public servants are not too high. The problem, however, is the rationalization of work or the number of employees that we can no longer maintain. We should draw up a plan to encourage the transition of staff from the public sector to the private sector and to reduce current employment in the public sector to a minimum. You wrote in the paper that the aim of the law under consideration is to comply with the law on intervention measures and agreements on wage and other remuneration measures in the public sector for 2011 and 2012, signed with representative public sector unions. We are of the opinion that arrangements should be respected. Money for these obligations could also be saved elsewhere. In the Slovenian People's Party, we still claim and note that the current government of the Republic of Slovenia cannot save in its services and is obviously not prepared to do so. This is also indicated by the recently adopted intervention law, where it is not observed that any of the ministerial departments would be prepared for a concrete reduction in their spending, and most of them are spending even more than in the pre-crisis year 2008. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we also find the current increase in wages at a time when social transfers and unemployment at the highest levels are simply inappropriate. A government coalition will have to take responsibility for the adoption of such a law. Members of the Slovenian People's Party cannot participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on supplementing the law on the public sector wage system. In spite of strong and firm opposition from Members of the DeSUS Group last month, the law on intervention measures was adopted. Why oppose this law on our part? Once again: without believing that we are only convinced, the fact is that pension generations have already contributed a large proportion of their share due to the current crisis and anticipated pension reform, so that the freezing of pensions further leads to a drastic reduction in the already poor economic situation. The 50% freezing of pensions would certainly not constitute such a mannequin to jeopardise the state budget and the stability of public finances. The opposite claims are drawn to the hair, especially in the fact that the Minister of Public Administration passed the pensioners and agreed on a way of freezing on their behalf. That this is not an empty straw beating, let me literally read the agreement: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia undertakes to make any changes to the provisions on coordination with inflation in 2011 of pensions or transfers to individuals and households in the parliamentary consideration of the draft law on intervention measures due to the economic crisis, to ensure the same mode of coordination for salaries in the public sector." Disadvantage to the public sector with an average net salary of €1,200 at the expense of pensioners, 350 000 receiving the amount under the poverty threshold, is not only inappropriate; it is unacceptable, immoral. Explain this to the pensioner who receives 500 euros a month! At the expense of the adopted intervention law and the conclusion of an agreement between the ministry and trade unions, we now have before us the amendment of the pay system, in order to harmonise the basic salaries for a quarter, which represents 0.55%. This will be supported by DeSUS Members, because if we want to act legally, there is nothing left to do. You've made such a commitment in November of this year. Nevertheless, we expect, even with the Government President's announcement on the next year's set of reforms and one of them is the reform of the wage system in the public sector, that this reform will be fair in terms of both within the public sector and in terms of all other employees in the private sector and in terms of pensioners. I would like to point out, however, that we are asking the Government not to negotiate in the future on the key at the burden of the third. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u82	Your Honor! By signed agreement of the Government with the representative public sector unions on 5. Ten. Guidelines on wage and other remuneration measures in the public sector for 2011 and 2012 were adopted in 2010. Therefore, the agreement is based on the provisions on coordination with inflation in 2011 and 2012, covering such pensions, transfers to individuals and economies, and of course also coordinates salaries in the public sector. The Law on Intervention Measures, which applies from 27. 11. Article 5 provides that, on the basis of the rules adopted, collective agreements, irrespective of the difference between the actual and projected increases in the price of living needs, the value of payment classes shall be aligned with 1 in December 2009 to December 2010. 1. 2011 at 25 % of the cost of living, which means that harmonisation is necessary as of 1 January 2011 by 0.55 % and represents 25 % of the above-mentioned level of growth in consumer prices. It is therefore a general harmonisation of basic salaries by 0.55%, thus establishing the basic principles of the wage system in the public sector for public servants and officials. A more flexible system is being put in place, linking wages with efficiency and performance, and making them more transparent in terms of public finances. The applicant explains that the law complies with the existing legal order and the generally applicable principles of international law, is not linked to the European Union's legal regulation, nor does it oppose the European Union's legal regulation. The proposed implementation of the law will burden the state budget for EUR 20.4 million in 2011 and for around EUR 22 million in the coming years. The appropriations are provided in the budget under the financial plans of the individual budgetary users. As we can see, the law is necessary, as it prevents the problems that have arisen in the event of non-compliance with the proposed rate of increase in prices of living needs. Surely the law is not ideal and does not satisfy most budget users, but allows what can be released in the budget. Therefore, we will not oppose the law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Good-bye to all of you! Responsible and serious policies in life must do what is necessary and necessary for public financial sustainability and, of course, it is difficult to pass such a law that everyone likes every time. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the proposed amendment of the law, as Article 5 of the Law on Intervention Measures and Point 7 of the Agreement on Measures in the Field of Wages and Other Benefits in the Public Sector for 2011 and 2012, on the basis of which, in the same way as inflation, pensions and transfers to individuals and households are coordinated with wages in the public sector. We are coordinating the Law on the Public Sector Wage System with the Law on Intervention Measures and Arrangements on Wages and Other Benefits in the Public Sector for 2011 as well as for 2012, which was signed with representative public sector unions. The proposed amendments will achieve an overall harmonisation of basic public sector wages by 0.55%, which is 25% of the GDP growth rate in the Republic of Slovenia in 2011, which is 2.2%. This bill also opposes the establishment of a flexible pay system that will more closely link the level of wages to the efficiency and results of work and against a transparent and manageable pay system from the point of view of public finances. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia supports the proposal of the law, as it follows the adoption of a solution to the Law on Intervention Measures, which we supported. This is how the government implements and fulfils an agreement concluded with representative unions, in which it has committed itself, inter alia, to the same method of coordination for public sector wages in the case of the harmonisation of pensions and social transfers with inflation in 2011. At the same time, we would also like to point out that, of course, they do not hold the claim to favour certain groups of trade unions, since the proposed law brings about harmonisation and thus higher wages for all civil servants in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Franz Žnidaršič on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u86	Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Parliamentary Group of Non-Related Members Solidarity will support the Law on the Public Sector Wage System. In view of the severe consequences of the financial and economic crisis, it was necessary to temporarily halt wage growth in the public sector, which is already too large and in many segments too efficient. At least a minimal agreement has been reached with representative trade unions, and we stress that the number of trade unions themselves who have agreed to do so is not the criteria for us, but it is important that the number of employees in the public sector be represented. To talk about the fact that most unions have not agreed to this change, do not hold back criticism, because small unions with a small number of workers cannot stop the benefits or responsibilities of the majority to take on the same part of the responsibility for what is happening. However, some feel that the financial and economic crisis should not affect them, although it is essential that everyone takes on part of the burden. This will make it easier for us to endure what is happening. We agree that we should cover more resources in the area, such as working in black, but this is not possible immediately and not for a short time, because if that were true, any government could have done more by now. It is therefore necessary to save and seek solutions that will help us start the economy, otherwise there will be no wage increases in the coming periods. Our Group understands the solidarity of employees in the public sector by sharing with all the unions the fate of the fact that, at the moment, it is not possible to fully eliminate wage imbalances with the new indebtedness of the country. I believe that some of these will try to create a conflict, but this is no longer common sense, but a policy of creating emergency situations and false concern for employees. With regard to individual segments of civil society, which claim that the amount, for example, for the different coordination of pensions is not so great that the state would not transfer it, our Group of Members may agree. However, if representatives of all groups demand their small amounts, the amount of funds eventually becomes too large for a time when we should hire new loans or adopt this law, so that until the economy recovers, it is not possible to give everything they expect, but above all what is necessary and at least to preserve the level of the social state and rights achieved without increasing it. For as soon as the state takes a new loan, it experiences power or the current government criticizing re- and over-indebtedness, but when it comes to saving, it is the rebellion of the poor at all levels. Our Group believes that this law must be adopted and will therefore be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u87	Mr Anton Kolarič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Government representatives, colleagues! About 160,000 civil servants have been told about their salaries this year. There have been long discussions about on-calls all the way up to the question of how to address the wage imbalance that occurred in 2008 at the time of high economic growth; at the time when the global economic and financial crisis had hit Slovenia as well. However, the biggest criticism was, of course, also focused on the way the government and trade unions coordinate and negotiate. Regardless of criticism, we now have a new law on the public sector wage system, which will align the basic salaries in the public sector with the 25% increase in the price of living needs in the Republic of Slovenia, announced in the autumn economic forecast by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development for the period December 2010-December 2011. However, in order not to get the impression that we are misleading the public with some high increases, let me illustrate what this 0.55% increase in basic salaries in the public sector means. The basic salary, for example in the first pay grade, will increase by 2.02 euros, in the 20th by 5.52 euros, for example, in the 40th is an increase of 9.55 euros and in the top five-fifty pay grade, by 32.22 euros. This harmonisation will be seen and paid in February 2011. The basis, as has been repeatedly said today, for such harmonisation and payment is Article 5 of the Law on Intervention Measures and an agreement between the Government and trade unions. We will support the proposed amendment of the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 4. PERIOD OF THE DAY — THIS IS A DELAYMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PUBLIC FINANCIAL LAW, AS REQUIRED. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mrs. Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Member, Members of Parliament! With the proposed amendments and amendments to the Public Finance Act, we are pursuing three objectives: for the first time, for the purpose of achieving the first objective, it is necessary to establish appropriate legal bases to enable the introduction of debt lending. In this way, the risk of non-coordinated transactions in trade with the Republic of Slovenia’s reference bonds will be reduced and the introduction of an instrument for lending its own debt securities will increase the efficiency and liquidity of the Republic of Slovenia’s secondary bond market and reduce the risk of non-coordinated transactions in this trade. Secondly, the second amendment to the proposed law refers to an amended procedure with a final account. The proposal for a law offers the Government to decide, at the latest in its objection, on the proposal of the Court of Auditors’ audit report, which audit proposals will be taken into account in the final account and in what way. The Government will therefore be able to decide in each individual case whether a correction of the final account proposal can be made as a readjustment to the reverse, or whether it will provide that the irregularities identified by the Court of Auditors can be remedied in the current year or in the future. The proposed law still provides that the deadline for the submission of the final accounts and the final report of the Court of Auditors shall be until 1 October of the current year. The news is that at the same time as the proposal for a final account, the Government must also provide the National Assembly with explanations as to why the individual failed to comply with the corrections. The following provision was added at the meeting of the parent committee, thus also defining the conduct of the case where the State Assembly of the Final Account does not accept it. In this case, the National Assembly will instruct the Government to draw up a new proposal for a final account, including specifying the corrections made to the final report of the Court of Auditors to be taken into account by the Government in the preparation of the new accounts. However, the third area affected by the proposal of the law is the establishment of appropriate legal bases for financing the development programmes and priorities of the State or municipality. In this context, the draft law provides that funds may be provided for this purpose in the form of capital investments, by increasing the intentional assets of the funds through guarantees or by granting grants or loans from the state or municipal budget. Furthermore, the bill also contains provisions providing a legal basis for new, modern forms of co-financing of various projects. These are mainly forms of financing under the principles of financial engineering and forms that allow for combining the allocation of public funds with private resources. Such instruments are also known by other European legislation, which mainly provides instruments to their national development banks and is also known by the European Investment Bank as the European Union's development bank. Taking into account the above, we propose that the National Assembly adopt a proposal for a new Law on Public Finance in the text, as drafted by the Home Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to a member of the Committee, Mr Mag. Borut Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Greetings to the department's professional services and secretary of state! The Committee considered the draft law as a working body at its 32nd emergency meeting. 12. 2010 The Committee was given a preliminary opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, whose main comments relate to non-systemic interference in transitional provisions, as well as to the correct application of the rules of nomognik and individual concepts, and to the warnings on the unspecified concepts that the proposal for a law places on the Slovenian legal order. Most of the comments made by the service are taken into account in the amendments adopted by the Committee. Article 7 and 8 of the amendment was tabled by the MEP. Andrej Vizjak. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the Court of Auditors and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. The Court of Auditors’ position on the draft law was presented by its President, stressing that the Court of Auditors and the bill-maker participated in the preparation of the decisions governing the procedures for the adoption of the State budget's final account. The text contained in the proposed law is largely in line with the wishes of the Court of Auditors and the answer remains to the question of action in the event of rejection of a proposal for a final account or failure to comply with the Court of Auditors’ observations. The President of the Court of Auditors stressed, however, that the amendment tabled by Mr Andrej Viszak to Article 7 followed to a large extent the key guidelines of the Court of Auditors which proposed an additional paragraph of the same Article, but did not include them in the text of the bill. Following a proposal from the Court of Auditors, the National Assembly should, in the event that the proposal for a state budget closure is not adopted, order the Government to draw up a new draft of the State budget accounts and identify those corrections which it must take into account on the basis of the identified errors in the final report of the Court of Auditors. In accordance with the decision taken, the Government re-submitted the revised proposal for the State Budget Final Account to the National Assembly. In the debate, the members of the Committee paid the highest attention to the issues related to the preparation and adoption of the draft accounts for the state and municipal budgets. With the amendments tabled to these articles, a legislative arrangement was proposed in the event of a failure to accept the final accounts of the State or municipalities' budget, in order to determine the time limit within which the Government or the mayor should submit a new proposal for the final accounts of the State or municipal budget, while the Government should draw up a new draft of the final accounts of the State budget in accordance with all the revisions of the auditor. The discussion also included a proposal for an amendment to Article 7 of the Committee, which would take into account the Court of Auditors' proposal to take into account only the corrections to be decided by the National Assembly. On these proposals, the representative of the bill's proposer stressed that the applicant insists on solutions as proposed by him, stressing that, on the basis of experience so far, it is possible to assess that there may be differences in certain issues in understanding whether a question can be identified for the past or for the future. That is why the Government wants to reserve the right to consider such issues. The Committee further adopted its amendments to the new A1. Article 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11 and 13. Within the framework of the definition of the amendments tabled by the Member of the Mag. The Committee did not adopt the amendment to Article 8 and did not define itself until the amendment to Article 7 of the same proposal, as the amendment of the Committee to this Article made it irrelevant. The Committee further voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. The amendments adopted are included in the amended law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the members of the group. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! The proposed amendments to the Public Finance Act, following an urgent procedure, comprise 5 substantive sets which are not all on a causal basis and which could not be claimed to be their place in the Public Finance Act. Undoubtedly, the fundamental purpose of the necessary and long-awaited amendments to the Public Finance Act is to provide a legal basis for correcting the State’s final account following the audit of the Court of Auditors on the basis of irregularities found. This undisputed and urgently needed amendment is accompanied at the beginning and at the end of the proposed amendments by two additional substantive sets. The first is covered by Article 1, which amends Article 68 of the existing Public Finance Act or introduces a separate parent number of the administrator of the single treasury account. This amendment concerns the content of the Act on the provision of payment services and would therefore be more appropriate in order for this amendment to take effect in that Act. Similar inconsistencies also arise in the proposed amendments contained in Articles 10 and 11 of the proposed Act, which refer to the Capital Investment Management Act. The second set of proposed amendments to the Public Finance Act introduces a new purpose of borrowing a country, which, in addition to the two purposes so far, is the debt owed to cover the budgetary deficit and liquidity debt, introduces a third form of State debt in the form of additional debt securities issued to the extent laid down in the Law on the Enforcement of the Budget, for the purposes of intervention in the securities market and the so-called repositories of transactions or for the temporary lending of its own securities as an intervention instrument in the secondary market of its own debt securities. The proposed amendments to the Public Finance Act therefore also change the way in which the debt is displayed, namely in the balance sheet, which thus becomes an integral part of the State's final account, and unfortunately not an integral part of the local community's final account, but although this would necessarily be necessary, not because of the new purpose of the debt, because it is not envisaged for the local community, but because of the situation in the area of local community debt. The third set of amendments to the Act relates to amendments which allow for the correction of the State’s final account following the findings of irregularities by the Court of Auditors. The draft law adequately resolved the relationship between the Court of Auditors and the drafter of the final account with regard to corrections based on irregularities found, but the proposed law did not resolve the relationship between the proposer of the revised or partially corrected final account and the National Assembly which adopts the final account of the State. On the basis of the discussion and active cooperation of the Court of Auditors, this problem has been resolved by an appropriate amendment of the home working body to Article 7 of the Act, or by the addition of paragraphs 6 and 7 of this Article. Such an amended bill satisfactorily addresses the issue of the adoption of the State budget's final account in the event of irregularities identified by the Court of Auditors.Unfortunately, the applicant had no legal ambition to regulate the issues of the local community's final accounts, most of which are not audited by the Court of Auditors, and audit reports by audit companies are not available to the public and the general public. In this area, it is only proposed that a clearer deadline be set for the submission of the final accounts of the municipality to the municipal council, which is welcome but does not solve the issue of the final accounts of the local communities. The fourth set of proposed legislative changes relates to the allocation of funds from state and municipal budgets and sets out in more detail the procedures, the appointment and functioning of commissions, the call for allocation of funds, the direct allocation of public funds and the conditions for financial engineering. The proposed additions thus eliminate the lack of legislation so far in this area, which has also been repeatedly pointed out by the Court of Auditors and will have a positive impact on the transparent and efficient use of public funds. Since the fifth set of proposed amendments to the Capital Investment Management Act has been removed from the Committee's amendments and since the Committee's amendments have also adequately complemented the section relating to the procedures for amending the final account, we will be supporting the amendments to the Public Finance Act in our Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Good bye to all of you! The final account represents an important legal and financial act, providing comprehensive and complete information on the implementation of the budget itself, both state and municipal; in short, it is an act that gives an overview of the regularity and autonomy of the operation of the State or municipalities. We are all well aware of the problem with the text-making process and the process of adopting the final account. It has happened that the vote has to be repeated for the one which must also be adopted by the National Assembly. But we also have a case from two years ago when we didn't even accept the final bill. In order to avoid these unloving situations, the state-level committee for the supervision of public finances also discussed and adopted certain decisions. Among them is the commitment or request of the Government to prepare an amendment to the legislation towards the gradual adoption of the accounts if the Court of Auditors finds certain irregularities in its audit report. The Court of Auditors also participated in the drafting of this law and their comments were taken into account to a greater extent. A different opinion from the Government was given by the Court of Auditors on only one issue, which was duly amended during the legislative procedure of the working body, which also helped to remedy matters. So I can conclude that the text of the amended law that we now have before us is harmonised at the professional level, which is also the main reason why we will support it in our Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today we are witnessing the consideration and adoption of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act by emergency procedure; well, in the Slovenian National Party we are convinced that it is not necessarily necessary to adopt this procedure. However, we know that the reason for this proposal is the decision of the Commission of the Public Finance Supervisory Board, which ordered the Government to amend the law we are talking about in order to determine the procedure for action or the possibility of amending the accounts in the event that the Court of Auditors finds certain irregularities in its audit report. The law is before us, although, as the findings and the review of developments in the European field show, it is not customary for the final accounts to be modified on the basis of the findings of the Court of Auditors, but for this proposal, the proposal provides an opportunity or foresees that the revision procedure may provide for the possibility of the Court of Auditors proposing an amendment. The news that is worth mentioning in this bill is, in comparison to the existing regulation, that the Government of the State Assembly must take note in writing of the reasons why the individual corrections made by the Auditor of the Government have not been taken into account if that were the case. The rest of this law was told by a colleague, so I will not repeat it. Finally, let me say that I am sorry again, not for your fault, Madam Secretary of State, I am sorry again – we have several times already warned, we have a 15-member law to which 13 amendments have been tabled. So we can't work, and we've warned about this several times, and we'll keep alerting you several times. However, it is not in such a hurry, since, lastly, this shows a bad light on all of us, first of all on the drafter, that he is making bad laws or that he does not know how to prepare them and then on us that we do not know what we want, because the reason for this law is precisely the Commission's decision to monitor public finances. Well, another thing we are concerned about is what Mrs State Secretary said on the home work body, when we said that, in fact, almost more comments are made by the Legislative and Legal Service than the content of the law, that the opinions of the legislative and legal services in the Government and in the National Assembly are sometimes diametrically opposed. And that's very worrying, at least as far as this is concerned. And if we put the whole picture together, it makes sense that we get a 15-article marriage and almost as many amendments. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you very much again for your word. Good-bye, everyone! Of course, times are difficult and serious, so sometimes difficult and difficult solutions are also needed, but they need to be evaluated after the final product. And I think that the final product is such that we can say that it "drinks water", so we will support it in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. The proposal for a new Law on Public Finance is largely the result of the initiative of the National Assembly Commission, which proposed to regulate the area of acceptance and validation and today's proposal to correct the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia. When the proposal for a new law came to the National Assembly, it actually covered five areas where one of these areas was the proper regulation of the adoption of the final account. The other four areas have legitimized the instrument of lending securities, exemptions in the presentation of revenue and budget expenditure, the establishment of a legal basis for the allocation of grants, loans and other forms of co-financing from the State budget and, as a fourth area, also the arrangements for a temporary capital investment management solution, where an extension of the deadline for the submission of the strategy has been proposed, as well as the way in which these investments are managed during this interim period. We have deleted this last area of capital investment management on the home labour body, as such an intervention in the Public Finance Act would be completely unsystematic and inappropriate. As for the other four areas, we support them in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, which is why we support the law. This is how we support the introduction of the Instrument for the Temporary Loan of Securities, as it is also used by other countries to improve liquidity in the bond market, which is important for our country. It is simply a matter of being able to borrow bonds temporarily from the Ministry of Finance and also to transfer money equivalent to the leased bonds, in the event of insufficient volume of bonds on the market. In the Public Finance Act, we also add exceptions to the presentation of the revenue and expenditure of the budget, where regulation of the country's single treasury account system in general defines more precisely the area of long-term deposits deposited by the State in banks. As already stated in the introduction, this amendment also provides for more visible changes in the preparation of the final account, where we follow the Court of Auditors' demands that part of the final account also become a balance sheet of the state budget. It also seems to us that, in an appropriate manner, it is also regulated to correct the closing account, where it is provided that, in the event that the Court of Auditors finds errors in the closing account and proposes corrections, the Government has the possibility to remedy the errors already in the stage of the draft accounts when the Court of Auditors finds possible errors, in order to determine which corrections are taken into account and which are not. The final proposal for the final report shall then be sent to the National Assembly together with the final report of the Court of Auditors. In addition, we have added the possibility that, even in the case of a failure to confirm the final accounts in the National Assembly itself, if the correction proposals have not been sufficiently taken into account, the Government should also prepare a revised final invoice with certain corrections to be decided again by the National Assembly. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support these solutions because we have more systematic and transparently defined the process of receiving and correcting the final account. The last area introduced by the amendment of the Public Finance Act is the regulation of the area of allocation of funds from the budget, where financing is introduced in accordance with the principles of financial engineering and the effective allocation of public funds together with relevant private resources. With such a measure, we will also make it possible to draw European funds more efficiently and more quickly. This is an area that Slovenia still wants and deserves to do, pump and fill in as best as possible. As has already been said, we will unitedly support the proposal for a law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting to all present in the hall, especially the secretary of state and her coworkers! In the Group of Social Democrats, we are pleased that we have come to amend the Law on Public Finance, which lays down the legal basis, for the first time, for the introduction of a new instrument for the temporary lending of reference bonds, to provide a legal basis for the possibility of amending the final accounts or the rebalancing of the budget of the current year due to the findings of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a final account for each year. On the basis of the amendments adopted, which take full account of the Court of Auditors’ observations, a legal basis is also laid down in the event that the final invoice does not receive support in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, this amendment to the Public Finance Act is not possible or does not foresee similar situations that have taken place and will certainly continue at the level of local communities. It would be right if the Public Finance Act provided for the possibility of rectification, complementing the final budget account of each municipality because the fact that there may also be errors that the Court of Auditors does not otherwise determine, because the Court of Auditors with the final accounts of the budgets of the municipalities simply does not have time to deal with, but it can, of course, be determined by the supervisory committee of the municipality, especially if it is sufficiently qualified and composed to allow a thorough review of the final account. If the National Assembly does not adopt the draft State Budget Final Account on the basis of the new provisions of the Public Finance Act, it shall order the Government to draw up a new draft State Budget Final Account. In such a case, the National Assembly shall also provide for corrections to be taken into account on the basis of the errors disclosed in the final report of the Court of Auditors. Of course, this solution is only necessary if the Government itself does not correct the final accounts sufficiently so that the State Assembly can accept the final budget account. In fact, it is possible for the Government to correct the final budget account on its own, in accordance with the Court of Auditors’ comments, before sending it to the National Assembly. It also lays down the basis for the allocation of grants, loans and other forms of co-financing from the State budget. This is an area which has so far been legally subordinated and which introduces a legal basis for the operation of modern, alternative forms of co-financing from the State budget, where appropriate legal bases are established for the financing of certain projects for the allocation of grants, loans and other forms of co-financing from the State budget. In view of the fact that the procedure for allocating appropriations from the budget has been regulated so far by the rules governing the procedures for the implementation of state and municipal budgets and the fact that the content is legally subordinated, it is necessary to lay down it in this law. The current provisions are complemented by provisions laying down the legal basis for new, modern forms of co-financing in various national budget projects. These are mainly forms of financing under the principles of financial engineering and forms that allow for combining the allocation of public funds with private resources. These are forms of co-financing known to other European development banks and the European Investment Bank as the European Union's development bank. In view of the above, in particular because the amendment of the Public Finance Act finally regulates the procedures for correcting, supplementing and finalizing the final accounts of the State budget in the event that the Court of Auditors finds irregularities in the implementation of the budget and in the preparation of the final accounts, which the Social Democrats Group has already pointed out in its previous mandate, and in this mandate in particular, by noting that this Law has also received repeated warnings from the Social Democrats' Group to the Minister of Finance and its fellow Members, that the Public Finance Act should be corrected in this regard, the Social Democrats' Group will also support and support the amendments to the Law on Public Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The key solutions to the draft law, according to the applicant, are the following: the introduction of a temporary securities lending instrument that is intended to improve the liquidity of the secondary securities market, says the Republic of Slovenia’s bonds, in a way that would move faster and uninterruptedly on the market. The following is an amendment to the provisions on the accounts and procedures relating to the findings of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia. This was at the initiative of the Commission for the supervision of public finances, which lays down the legal basis for the possibility of amending the final accounts or the rebalancing of the current year's budget in view of the Court of Auditors' findings on the draft final accounts for each year. The change is also that the state budget summary balance will become an integral part of the final account. In doing so, the applicant follows the Court’s repeated request that the balance sheet should be an integral part of the final account; the final accounts of the municipalities remain unchanged and do not contain balance sheets. Furthermore, exceptions to the presentation of the revenue and expenditure of the budget related to the introduction of the Instrument for the Temporary Loan of Securities. In the latter part of the law, the provisions on the allocation of appropriations from the budget are transposed into law, which has been fully regulated so far in the rules on the implementation of the budget. We estimate that this is a content that should be regulated by law. In this work, a number of questions are raised as to whether the solutions proposed are appropriate. However, as some of the opposition's comments were followed in the process, we will not oppose the law in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 8th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. And we're going to move on to 8. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE — TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE BASIC SCHOOL LAW, CLOSED PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to Minister Igor Luksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u106	Mr President, thank you for your word. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! I would like very briefly to explain why we decided to make a change. In fact, after three years of introducing a compulsory second foreign language in the seventh, eighth and ninth classes of primary schools, we found that things are not running in order and the main problem is that there is a shortage of professional staff. According to current calculations, 165 teachers who learn this other foreign language do not have adequate education, and 324 schools do not yet include the language, which means that we would all be missing about 260 teachers. This is the main reason why we cannot go through compulsory introduction of another foreign language in the seventh, eighth and ninth classes already in 2011/2012, so we propose moving for at least two years. During this time, we will have all the appropriate discussions and see if such an arrangement is even good. It is also the case that the results of the follow-up show – students who were taught in this second language in the first and second years – that as many as 14% failed to meet the minimum goals and standards in the first school year, and 27.9 in the second year — that is, those now in the eighth grade. So let's take two more years to think about whether this measure is even good. In any event, in the next school year for objective reasons, we are not prepared to start with this as a compulsory subject, so I propose and ask you to support the amendment of the Basic School Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u107	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the president of Mrs Mag. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Primary Schools at its 23rd session, on 30 November 2010. At the conclusion of the College and on the proposal of the Government, we have considered the proposed law following a reduced procedure. The draft law was also addressed by the Commission of the State Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport and supported in its opinion. Two amendments have been tabled to the bill, one being tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, and the same article 1 has been tabled as the amendment of the coalition groups of Members. Representatives of the proposer, Director-General of the Directorate for kindergartens and primary education Boris Černilec, Chief Secretary of the Unions of Education, Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia Branimir Štrukelj and representative of the Legal and Legislative Service of Lenč Arko Fabjan participated in the work of the committee. Mr Boris Černilec gave an introductory explanation for the bill. The extension of the gradual introduction of another foreign language is necessary because of a comprehensive system solution regarding the placement of the first and second foreign languages in primary school and the associated statutory weekly obligations of pupils under the mandatory programme. He explained that with the receipt of the novel, the second foreign language as a compulsory subject in primary school will be mandatory for all pupils enrolled in the seventh grade according to the subject in the school year 2013/2014. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to the restrictions on amending transitional provisions according to their nature. This will be regulated by the adoption of the proposal for an amendment to the coalition group committee. In the context of the debate on individual articles, the members and members of the Committee and the other invited welcomed the introduction of a compulsory foreign language, and some felt that it was not appropriate to withdraw its mandatory introduction for the entire generation due to the fullness of the approaches. The generation of the seventh class in the school year 2011/2012 has nothing to do with the generation entering school and being concerned by the integrated approach to early learning of foreign language. However, some comments were also made on the basis of a lack of professional staff to teach another foreign language. Others felt that in foreign languages the language of the state environment was usually applied, so those languages in which they were bordered in one country were also introduced into primary schools. They also explained that early language learning must be done by a specific method suitable for this learning, which also requires the appropriate professional competence of teachers. According to the Chief Secretary of the Union of Education and Education, Science and Culture of Slovenia, teachers will need to be adequately prepared in the future with additional education. The representative of the Ministry said that the White Paper on Education and Education in the Republic of Slovenia would be presented in March 2011, bringing together all legal changes relating to systemic education and education solutions in primary education. The Committee adopted the amendment of the coalition parties to Article 1 and did not adopt the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, he voted. The adopted amendment is included in the amended amendment and we propose to the National Assembly that you accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary! Knowledge of foreign languages expands the horizon and opens up a lot of doors in life, so language education should begin as a child. However, the curriculum must already be adapted to the child’s abilities and should not be overburdened. We therefore support the introduction of a second foreign language as a compulsory subject in primary school in the Slovenian People's Party Group, as set out in the 2007 amendment of the Basic School Act. However, we would like to point out that this step needs to be taken with due consideration and without undue urgency and that everything necessary for the whole system of arrangements for the placement of foreign languages in primary school needs to be prepared. We therefore also understand the proposal for a proposal to move the compulsory introduction of another foreign language in the 7th grade of primary school, or to extend the gradual introduction of another foreign language precisely for the purpose of preparing a comprehensive system solution relating to the placement of a foreign language in the primary school subject. We caution, however, that the introduction of another foreign language should not cause additional burdens on pupils in primary schools, but that the obligations of pupils should remain within the legal framework which lays down the weekly obligation under the mandatory programme. Right now, the current results of international research on the literacy of students of PISA 2009 are not seen by members of the Slovenian People's Party as good as the Ministry of Education claims. The reading literacy of our students is below average. A quarter of Slovenian schoolchildren do not reach the level of literacy that is sufficient to function effectively in everyday life. This must be a warning to us and we must ask ourselves whether we are still a society of knowledge in which students will be able to analyse the information they have read and to use it in a given situation, or whether we are a nation that raises children who can't even normally talk to each other. Well, don't get too far from the proposed law. Members of the Slovenian People's Party also ask about the equality of pupils from rural areas on the one hand and students from the city on the other. In fact, whether students of rural schools who are in some places well-staffed will have the same opportunities and will have the same number of foreign languages as their peers in urban areas who are already in a better position. Let us hope not, so we appeal to the Ministry of Education and to the National Team of Experts for the preparation of the White Paper on Education and Education to prepare solutions that do not distinguish between the rights of urban and rural children. We also expect the Ministry and the section to analyse the results of the PISA 2009 survey thoroughly and to make appropriate changes so that such results will no longer be repeated. Nevertheless, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed law because we are aware that knowledge of foreign languages is extremely important. However, we expect that the introduction of another foreign language will not have a negative impact on the Slovenian curriculum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by mag. Your Clavor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u112	Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment extends the gradual introduction of a second foreign language into primary school for two school years, as long as the introduction of a second foreign language is also delayed as mandatory in the third triad of the primary school. The latter is necessary in order to allow for a comprehensive system solution for the placement of the second foreign language in the primary school subject before the introduction of the compulsory introduction, in the light of the intended introduction of the first foreign language in the first educational period. Since these conceptual and systemic solutions are for the transformation and upgrading of primary education in progress, it is reasonable to avoid inappropriate placement of foreign languages in the Slovenian school system in terms of later intervention and adaptation of curricula, subjects and annual or weekly obligations of pupils. In addition, the appropriate qualifications of foreign language teachers are, of course, essential, where the required number of professional staff appears to be lacking. To ensure that the approach to teaching foreign languages is integrated and of quality, in our Group of Members we agree with the postponement of the introduction of a compulsory foreign language for a later period and we will support the proposal for a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! With the adoption of amendments and the addition of the Basic School Act in 2007, it was agreed to introduce the second foreign language gradually as a compulsory subject for pupils in the seventh grade primary schools. A regulation on how to introduce and on the necessary conditions and criteria for primary schools was also published. In short, all the formal conditions were met. As everyone knows, the Council of Ministers of the European Union or the Ministry of Education and Education adopted a decision and recommendation three years ago to the members of the European Union, as well as a document on multilingualism, thus recommending and seeking to ensure the possibility and the right of pupils to learn two foreign languages in primary school. Comparable studies or analyses by other European countries clearly indicate that this practice is already in most European countries. We can say how much of this is already present in our nearest neighbourhood in Austria, Italy and so on, where a third optional subject for a third language is being introduced. Not to mention that, in these countries, there are other languages spoken in the world, but nevertheless introduced, in accordance with these recommendations of the Council of Ministers of the European Union, other languages into the subject. In the Government's explanation, it is stated that before the introduction of legislative amendments, the proposal will have to be brought into line with the proposal for conceptual systemic solutions for the transformation and upgrading of the education and education system in Slovenia, which will be presented in March next year in the so-called White Paper. Now, this proposal or this concept is unknown to us, we have not yet got a glimpse of it, and we cannot specifically imagine such solutions. But there's something obvious. They have produced analyses, as they state, for 100 and some primary schools and the results are that 85% of students with such a proposal to introduce another foreign language and to teach another foreign language do not actually have problems, but 15% of students do have problems, but I cannot imagine what these problems are, and we are not familiar with the details and neither are the analyses. However, the results of the monitoring of the experimental introduction of another foreign language show that despite the increase in the subject in the seventh grade, students are not overburdened by schooling. The additional reason for the extension to 2013/2014 is also due to an inadequate staffing structure, which is about a 10% shortage of adequately trained professional staff. It is also intended to express the unnecessary agreement on the amendment of this law for another reason. Those who have little insight into the participation of children in the courses of human universities can see the obvious negative picture that they are becoming such courses in some way also a sign of the differentiation of those who have money and those who do not have money. Although I cannot say that these are very expensive courses, I would warn you that in many families, 20 or 30 euros a month is a major problem for participation in such courses. The leadership of one such human university has told me that the demand for further learning of another foreign language in human universities is great and in ever-increasing. In order to avoid the deprivation of those financially weak families or children in such families, it would nevertheless recommend to the Ministry that it seek to accelerate this legal possibility of introducing another foreign language in primary school, as was last proposed in the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. To be honest, I don't see any reason to delay. In the conclusion of these ministers, this document has been recommended years ago and I do not know why Slovenia should now look again for some perfection in the production of some concepts, some systemic solutions and what else can be said, which are already known and introduced in other European countries. That's it. In short, we support the amendment in the Slovenian National Party and to accelerate the introduction of another foreign language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a basic school law follows the principle of ensuring quality general education and developing the ability to communicate in foreign languages for primary school students, as well as the principle of multilingualism, as important components of the language policies of all Member States of the European Union. The Lisbon Strategy aims, among other things, at a knowledge society where citizens are supposed to control the basics of at least two foreign languages. To this end, the Ministry of Education and Sport, in the school years 2011/2012 and 2012/2013, on the basis of the amendment of the law and the amended sub-legislative regulation, will draw up a special public invitation for each year to include primary schools in the gradual introduction of the second foreign language in primary school. Following the prescribed procedure, the Minister will decide on a selection of primary schools from among the registered primary schools, which will introduce a second foreign language to the 7th class. A key reason to change the law or to extend the gradual introduction of a foreign language is, where necessary, a comprehensive system solution regarding the placement of the first and second foreign languages in primary school and the related statutory obligations of pupils under the mandatory programme. In the newly introduced compulsory subject, the second foreign language during the third period of the primary school increases the number of hours of the subject during the trial and progressive introduction by 2 hours per week, for each class from 7 to 9 or 204 hours per year and thus increases the weekly obligation of the pupils. A partial solution related to the subject of the primary school and the compulsory introduction of the second foreign language into the 7th grade would be irrational in this respect, as a broader system solution would also provide for the introduction of the first foreign language during the first education period in the primary school. In view of the difficulty of changing the subject and the weekly obligation of pupils, it is necessary to align them with the proposal for conceptual systemic solutions for the transformation and upgrading of the education and education system in the Republic of Slovenia, which is expected to be presented in March 2011 by the National Team of Experts for the preparation of the White Paper on Education and Education in the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the LDS Club would also like to draw attention to some other aspects. We certainly agree that knowledge of foreign languages means some added value, some competitive advantage, if you want, in tomorrow's knowledge society, in which the Lisbon Strategy leads us, but at the same time we must be aware of the fact that knowledge is a good that is not necessarily the result of the amount of hours that someone devotes to a matter, but is often a matter of talent of individuals and abilities and interests that are not bound to a school curriculum, but to an individual. Therefore, in the LDS, we believe that as far as possible selectivity should be allowed in the framework of school programmes. Selective subjects must be the quality of our school system that enables us to search for and develop the talent that, personally, I am very confident of in our space. Only in this way will we allow our students a degree of self-realisation and personal growth, as we will allow them to discover and develop their potentials themselves. Mandatory content, of course, must exist and it is right that they are, but we need to know that greater uniformity does not necessarily mean greater success, rather vice versa. Slovenia, as a country with a relatively small population base, should, in our view, make even more efforts to diversify knowledge, which is easier to achieve through greater selectivity than uniformity at all levels of education programmes. We are convinced that knowledge of foreign languages is not the only talent that would make sense in our schools. On the contrary, we consider these potentials to be significant. That is why we support the gradual approach ourselves in this case and call on the Ministry of Education and Sport to consider the meaning of a long-term solution that would also support selectivity in the area of another foreign language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Andrej Magajn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u118	Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, all present, nice greetings! The Group of Non-Aligned Members supports the envisaged amendments to the Basic School Act. In the context of the discussions on individual articles, a number of dilemmas have emerged, and in general, everyone has welcomed the introduction of a compulsory foreign language, and some have felt that it is not appropriate to move away its mandatory introduction for the entire generation due to integrated approaches. Some comments were also made on the basis of the lack of professional staff to teach another foreign language, for example, according to the Chief Secretary of the Syndicate for Education, Education, Science and Culture, teachers will need to be adequately trained in the future. We also agree with the amendment adopted by the Committee, as they are actually approaching this gradual amendment. The section of the Transitional and Final Provisions in Article 47, inter alia, speaks of the continuation of the gradual introduction of another foreign language as a compulsory subject in primary schools to which the implementation of the programme is determined by a decision. The proposed wording of the amendments adopted by the Committee is clearer because the transitional regime for the introduction of another foreign language in primary school in the following two school years 2011/2012 and 2012/2013 specifically governs the implementation of those provisions of the transitional regime currently in force. The amendments do not change the original, with an amendment to the proposed solution to postpone the compulsory introduction of the subject in another foreign language until the school year 2013/2014 as compulsory subjects for all pupils enrolled in the seventh grade according to the subject. So we support the gradual transition and support the changes to the law, as I said in the introduction.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Once again a nice greeting to the Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the mandatory introduction of another foreign language as a form of early learning is a difficult professional question, so from the outset we are inclined to think that the White Paper must be the one to answer these difficult questions, especially now that we are all facing a decline in the results in the PSI, and many experts also believe that there may be a link between early learning of foreign language and reading literacy can harm another. As a matter of fact, it's a matter of professional concern. Experts are not uniform in relation to compulsory early learning of a foreign language. We need to wait for the results. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats, like in 2007, we think it would be good to have that group, for about 10% of the students, who already have one foreign language means a great burden, the possibility of learning another foreign language only conditionally, not compulsory. Unfortunately, a proposal on compulsory learning in another foreign language was adopted in 2007. It is interesting that the applicant, the then government, came up with a proposal to learn this foreign language in the school year 2014/2015 and that the amendment in the National Assembly made it compulsory to teach the second foreign language in the school year 2010/2011. It was therefore an express political position, not an expertly based proposal. More than once, it has been said today that early learning of a foreign language is also related to hard work, but we do not have enough teachers to do that. The didactics of learning a second foreign language are also different from didactica in the first foreign language. However, in the European space, the attitude towards foreign language learning is not exactly the same, let me tell you, for example, from statistics on foreign languages in European countries. I do not think Belgium is comparable to Slovenia because Belgium faces multilingualism. And this is one of those countries where early language learning, at least for one group, starts at 3 years. In the vast majority of countries, compulsory first language learning starts at 8 and in some countries at 11 years of age. Here, as a special mention, the United Kingdom, where, for example, Scotland in school does not have compulsory foreign language learning. But they have, say, only three or four years of learning a foreign language. I am aware that comparisons also depend on the relationship between public and private schools, but the fact is that we can also find countries that already offer Latvia as a country that already offers a fourth foreign language in school, of course, in high school. When talking about compulsory foreign language learning, of course, it should also be borne in mind that countries with two compulsory foreign languages do not offer a language as a choice point. We are still convinced that the current solution, after which more than 80% of the children were involved in compulsory learning of another foreign language in primary school, was a good solution and that this selection course was chosen by those who had a greater affinity and were easier to follow foreign language. This is also an answer to all those who believe that this measure is a compulsory teaching of another foreign language in the direction of cutting off the possibility of earning human universities. By now, primary schools had to offer a different foreign language than a selection course. As it is said, in the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal to suspend compulsory foreign language learning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Darka Meni.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u122	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! The Government has sent a law to the proceedings moving the implementation of the compulsory second language into primary school, which was introduced by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act 2007. The reason for the introduction of another compulsory foreign language and the replacement of the current system, when the second foreign language was only an option of the choice that the student could choose, is a decision of the profession and policy that at least two foreign languages must be mastered by each student. An active citizen and job seeker in Europe and in the country is expected to master at least two foreign languages in order to be competitive. This is also due to the principle of multilingualism in the EU, endorsed by ministers with a document on urgent multilingualism during the Slovenian Presidency in January 2008. This is how the practice already practised in Europe by most countries is that all children learn at least two foreign languages in primary school. The introduction of a compulsory foreign language in Slovenia was accepted by consensus of the public, both professional and parent. Gradual introduction has allowed for the monitoring of good practice, but the justification for moving away from learning another foreign language for all generations with all approaches is in no way sustainable. The generation of the seventh class in the school year 2011/2012 has nothing to do with the generation entering school and being concerned by the integrated approach to early learning of foreign language. The generation of the seventh class will be robbed of the opportunities their peers have throughout Europe, this is more knowledge of foreign languages, more of their own well-being and consequently the prosperity of Slovenia as a whole. The generation of the seventh class is a lost generation through the implementation of this law, so in the SDS we propose an amendment to the article. Article 1 is amended as follows: "In the school year 2011/2012, a second foreign language is started as a compulsory subject for all pupils enrolled in the seventh grade according to the subject. Subjects and curricula under this Act shall be established by the competent expert board by 28 February 2011 at the latest. In the curricula determined after the adoption of this law, the term'minimum standard' is replaced by 'expected result'. The competent expert board shall propose to the Minister amendments to the adapted educational programmes, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act. [[Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 102/2007]] by February 2011 at the latest." In our client, we wonder why the delay in compulsory learning of a foreign language for two years has caused great harm to these generations of primary schoolchildren. There's no reason to postpone. The excuse that there is not enough professional staff is to speak in mind without professional analysis. We should only look at the lists of unemployed people in our employment institutions and see how many of them are waiting for this type of employment through their diploma. Talking to the union secretary about education and education, that young graduates do not have sufficient professional background and experience and that they need to be prepared with additional education, is offensive to the colleges that have educated these people and given them diplomas. So according to him, they don't have enough knowledge to start work. We will not support the bill in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Tadej Slapnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u124	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! At the time of the introduction of the second foreign language into primary school in the previous term, the then drafters of the amendment were warned that the introduction of the second foreign language among compulsory subjects, without analysis of the conditions for the introduction of the law, and of the burden that this may present primarily for the worse students, was not appropriate. In the Group of Members, we really agree with the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy with the principle of multilingualism, but if we want to ensure quality general education and the development of the ability to communicate in foreign languages, solutions must be based on professional foundations and orientations. It is therefore only reasonable to design, harmonise and adopt the White Paper on Education and Education in the Republic of Slovenia before any changes, in which all proposals for changes in the school area will be collected. Therefore, in the Parliamentary Group, we support the amendment of the law extending the phased introduction of the second foreign language in the 7th grade of primary school for two school years or the delay in the introduction of the second foreign language in the school year 2013/2014. Prior to that, systematic solutions should be provided for the placement of a foreign language in the subject of the 7th grade of the primary school and the related all weekly student obligations.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 12. 2010 We're moving on to Article 1. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Please, Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. In our parliamentary group, we proposed an amendment that restores the situation, following a change to the law or amendment to the law adopted in 2007 or the amendment. At the committee meeting, I wanted to know how much we lacked staff, given that the ministry representative said that one of the reasons why the introduction of another foreign language was delayed was also that we were understaffed. I didn't get an answer for that. Even if you wanted to answer me, the president could barely afford it. In short, I have now asked the Minister about this and I expect an answer. However, you have already said that you estimate that 200 teachers are missing this moment, which could teach another foreign language. Although I also wanted to know how many foreign language teachers there are among the unemployed and what we have done in these years since the amendment of the 2007 law to train the staff. For if a commitment is made in marriage, it is likely that we should start working on it, not two years from now, or three years from now, to ask questions and realize that we have not done something and therefore move the introduction away for a while. According to what we received in the material, it also shows that in schools where they are already working in this way, where other foreign languages have been introduced experimentally, the results are not poor and students and teachers are satisfied. Therefore, I do not think it is necessary to move the matter for another two years, but something must be done to meet the conditions that would allow for the introduction of another foreign language in all schools on the next school year. Perhaps the Minister will answer one more question, particularly as to what we have done since 2007, and whether we have learned a month ago that we have no personnel and have prepared a new law. Maybe then I'll discuss it, depending on the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Lukšič asked for the floor, then Mr Mirko Brulc, and then I will reopen the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u128	President, thank you for your word. So the question that has been asked has already been answered in my initial intervention; that is, the Member's question is how many teachers are missing. As I said, 165 foreign language teachers who are now teaching are not qualified. The school included is 127 out of 451; in three years 127 out of 451. 324 schools have not yet been included! In 165 teachers who do not have a proper education! So if you're still taking on a bad grade from three years ago to go into this foreign language, even though we don't have enough teachers — who's going to teach it? So, I'm asking you: a little sanity. We cannot send teachers to schools to learn a foreign language if they are not qualified to do so. That's why we came here before the National Assembly to correct this anomaly. At the time it was an assessment, then it seemed possible that a "horuk" action could reach teachers who were not there. We need one teacher for five years. So even when we came to the term two years ago, it was clear that this "will not go through" because there was no teacher, but we left some time, but in any case it is probably now the last time, 2011 September it is not good to start with this obligation because we have no conditions, there are no teachers.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word is Mirko Brulc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u130	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, nice to meet you. Indeed, we are a small nation and knowledge of foreign languages is important for all of us, but early learning or the introduction of another foreign language is not as simple a matter as it may be here, in this environment thinking about it. I've already been talking about traffic law, and I've been talking about high school, and it's not the same thing as moving from truck to bus, and you're gonna be the driver next. Explains that there is a whole bunch of unemployed people in the department of employment with a diploma — what? Do you really think that at one age a child can be taught by anyone who has little knowledge of foreign language? This is a very big simplification, you need to know didactics, the child's degree is appropriate to behave and so on. And if the teachers are missing, then tomorrow we can't introduce another foreign language. We have the opportunity for children, together with the help of parents and teachers, to choose another foreign language as a selection class. Many people benefit from this, and this is a success. Every added burden frontal, for all students, even those with less ability, is a great burden; it will fail. And he will fail not only in a foreign language, but also in other subjects! This needs to be processed professionally, so I think the White Paper is the one. We all know that today parents are learning so much with their children at home, all weekends, writing assignments, despite the countless tons of work volumes and more, some such change needs to be made in this area, not just to mention additional burdens. Last week we talked about traffic education – I wouldn’t know what else to do — although it is already very precisely distributed, where the child was learning, where the cycle exam is taking place, and so on. Tomorrow the firefighters will come here and say they want to have civil protection even more than a special subject and so on. Let us stop the horses, allow the professions to prepare themselves the way they need to be prepared, and then introduce another foreign language or early learning a foreign language. Then we can all be satisfied. I support the proposal to withdraw this matter and to prepare, within the framework of the White Paper, everything necessary to introduce this second foreign language into primary school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I'm opening the application. The word is Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Indeed, I must say that I am very, very surprised at the ease of the decision of the Minister or the Ministry to withdraw the second compulsory language for such unjustified reasons. There is no way in which I can understand that there would be no way to provide staff to teach another foreign language. I was appalled a few weeks ago about the procedures in place in Slovenia so that someone could teach a foreign language at all. I talked to the lady, now that she has studied in England, she has taught English texts in England, and because she did not have a seminar here, she has not been able to get a chance to teach in elementary school. Such people are huge and then let us look here for ways to remove these bureaucratic obstacles. We certainly have qualified people who can speak the language, and even if they do not have those pedagogical or didactic or any such certificates, they can be more than successful. Let's ask ourselves a few questions, a number of private schools in foreign languages, which children attend in mass languages, because parents themselves realize that children need not one, two or even more foreign languages, but of course drive them against payment twice or three times a week to learn foreign languages, and I know that I myself have had the opportunity to learn, there are teachers, or those who teach, without such or formal documents or certificates; and also very successfully, or very well, or learn quality. So to look for a reason in simply removing the foreign language, not having people – this simply does not hold up! If it were willful, they would certainly have sought ways to qualify these people since this law was in force. Today we have discussed the law for doctors so that those diplomas they have obtained from outside can easily be confirmed. Following very simple procedures, this can now be done. Quality should not be compromised. [[Mrs. Potrata, if you have problems, you can be a little later.]] Basically, procedures are being simplified there. Here, too, it was not obvious that there was any way that those who knew foreign languages could be trained to teach their children especially in the lower classes. Mr. Secretary, this is a step back. If we want to succeed as a small country in the European Union and even in the system of globalisation, and also successfully produce our knowledge, we will not be able to produce it without the knowledge of the foreign language. That's how it is – not one step, it's two steps back. And I'm sure it'll be bad for our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Minister? Wait a minute. The minister will explain first. Then it's your turn. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u134	President, thank you for your word. No one removes another foreign language, we merely present a mandatory introduction, a mandatory implementation introduction, because schools will continue to apply, now 127 to 451, 324 more must be able to do so. So we can't rape the situation, gentlemen! I don't understand this discourse! If there are no teachers, we can't bring this in. As far as doctors are concerned. You probably know there's a medical study that's regulated everywhere. This is similar to pilots, if you want, or vets. It's a regulated profession. So, there is no problem taking a doctor from anywhere, although, as you know, we also have a problem with knowledge of Slovenian language in them. This is about teaching. But it is right that they can speak Slovenian even when they are learning a foreign language. And the regulation of the profession, including the teaching profession, is something that strengthens us. And I'm not into letting anyone go to school without qualifications. If you want, right now we're having a debate about Legebitro and Amnesty International, can NGOs come to school? They come, but according to strict regulations, and only those who are qualified to do so. And some people have problems with that. Those who are qualified to do so! We cannot, on the basis of regulations or prejudices and on the basis of some political will. We are all about our children learning as much language as possible, as many foreign languages as possible. I'm not just two people who know how to know three, four, they have the chance to choose languages after almost all schools. Schools are encouraged to do so, but we do not have conditions for obligation now.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The word is Marian Bezjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u136	Thank you for your word, chairman. Hello, Mr. Secretary, colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! Absolutely from the words spoken by the minister, there is a problem in the staff. Yes, I agree that the problem is in the personnel, but I do not agree with the fact that we would not actually have taken this route that was going forward. Perhaps we could transfer this compulsory knowledge or the compulsory foreign language programme to primary school with just one deadline. I have six colleagues myself who can't get a job in elementary school with the knowledge of a foreign language. Two from Styria are working temporarily in Ljubljana. And then we pretend that the problems are frame. I think it's certainly a staff issue that we can't get 60 years and more old teachers. They're gone. And the young frame is huge, running abroad because we don't give him a job here. I think it is wrong to discuss this in Parliament, to legally exclude the knowledge of the foreign language. I don't know why. If we want to go to the world, Slovenia is small, the world is wide, then we need to accept these things and know them. True, the data with which the minister operates is that one hundred and fifty-five people actually teach a foreign language with non-professional education. I know we can't put these people on the road because that's what's been going on so far. I think these people have handled this well and will be teaching a foreign language until retirement. We need to know for ourselves that the effect of work or how many hours teachers work on a day is effective, from eight o’clock to twelve o’clock. I think there's a blockage in the primary schools of economic work. For we will also have to adapt primary schools to the economic system, and kindergartens, as Europe has been working for many years – from eight or nine o'clock to five o'clock to six o'clock. We can't afford child care because kindergartens are open until three o'clock. That's the problem. We need to get things in order. You can't find four hundred people at once, but you can gradually find them for sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We are talking about the amendment to Article 1 and the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled an amendment that two things are going on. And so because of the first one we are talking about, this is the return of the compulsory learning of another foreign language to its original state, according to the 2011/2012 school year, which I have already talked about, I cannot support this amendment. Other changes are also being made in the amendment to replace the term'minimum standard' with 'expected result'. At the beginning of our term of office, we discussed the draft law on primary school, which we rejected at the time, inter alia, because of this unacceptable forecast change, so that the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party cannot be supported in any way. Now to what I think is a fundamental misunderstanding. Scotland in the United Kingdom and Ireland do not have until the age of 20 in any form of education introduced by any compulsory foreign language. I'm not saying it's good, so I'm defending learning a foreign language. However, I advocate the professionally sound learning of another language, because attempts to learn a subject, such as mathematics or geography in a foreign language, have proved to be poor, and I specifically point to article 11 of the Constitution of Slovenia, which speaks which language we speak in Slovenia. I join the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group, which draws attention to the unequal possibilities of urban schools and schools where there is no competition or possibility of complementing an obligation in several foreign language schools, which would allow for a larger range of foreign languages. There are a lot of problems and, Mrs Jeraj, if you are still suffering because you get answers, but you may not hear them, but then you are demanding them again; the fact is that in education you cannot work in the way they tried in the previous term, when they counted the hours available, they were shared with the number of employees and then calculated how many employees the Minister or the Minister will allow for new employment in individual schools. The fact is that teaching is a complex and demanding process, that people have to be specially qualified to do so, and this is not done as baked buns do. This is a process of special knowledge that needs to be acquired in a certain way so that no harm is done in school. Because a non-professional or inadequate teacher can also do damage in his professional career, not only to the benefit of being placed in the job he has. And look, this sort of volunteering was done by the previous coalition when, from the proposed introduction of compulsory learning of another foreign language in the school year 2014/2015, the amendment was adopted and moved to the school year 2011/2012. Probably because they wanted to know how many teachers, how many hours, and how few hours, they calculated that this could be done quickly just like that with their left hand long and over. That's not how it works. That is why I am defending what I have already said in the opinion of the Group of Members. Things in education need to be thought through, well prepared, and trained people to do so. If someone is doing a comparison with the doctors and the previous law that we have dealt with, it would be at least right to remember that we have talked about doctors who have diplomas, but these diplomas must be in a special procedure, so that they can work with us, through a special procedure, still be justified and have to be examined for what studies were like and then, after one year of follow-up, they have diplomas for that. But just because someone was a lecturer doesn't mean he's a teacher. Indeed, the lecturer was originally a reader, but this is where this basic misunderstanding shows that you simply put someone in a classroom and can do it without proper knowledge. I don't know why we have special schools to train teaching skills. This amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party is impossible to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word is Brada Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u140	Thank you very much. It appears that those who have tabled an amendment to Article 1 should be introduced in the next school year in our primary school, nor do they have any idea what it means to be qualified to teach children any subject in any knowledge that you are introducing them. It's not true you need to know biology. You can be a doctor, I'll say, in cancer science, it's said that you've put the entire process of biology education through the doctorate, but you can't tell a little kid 8, 9, 10, 11 years old what you need to learn about biology. If you can speak perfect English, if you can speak perfect French, if you can speak perfect Italian, it is not yet said that you are qualified to teach a small child of these languages. I graduated from school many years ago, five years ago it lasted, and far over half the subjects that we listened to in those five years were designed for youth psychology, pedagogics, methodology, didactics. These are subjects that have nothing to do with the content of the teaching if we are looking at what a teacher actually is, what a teacher teaches to a child at the time of teaching. We also had other subjects, we had music, we had Slovenian, we had mathematics and so on. But when we studied didactics, we studied didactics of individual subjects, how a substance is given, so that a child, then 7 to 14 years old, can understand. Today someone tells me here in this room that if someone was an English language lecturer in England, which is a little bit unusual, it would be more logical to be a Slovenian lecturer in Great Britain, but it was either in high school or at university. He couldn't be a teacher for any language in primary school. So he doesn't have the knowledge you need to be able to give a substance to a small child. For me, it's children who go to primary school, whether they're 14 or 6 years old. So please, we can't force ourselves through the primary school door and say, "Now you will have to teach another foreign language." Not to mention that those who are full of mouth that this government does not take into account social dialogue, that it does not even deal with it, but I read in newspapers that an organization, I don't know what it is called, a society that unites parents of primary school children, refuses to introduce compulsory teaching of another foreign language, because they say that children are very diverse, that one child is gifted for one another, and therefore should retain another foreign language in the status of compulsory choice, which means in Slovenian, this is not only an argument that the school must offer another foreign language, but the child can choose it or not. He may also choose another object that suits him more. Someone who's going to be an auto mechanic, I don't think he needs to know two foreign languages or someone who's going to be a machine lockmaker, someone who's going to be a bricklayer. If we are purely honest and honest, and if we are a machinist, such as a construction technician, they will actually need to know very good Albanian, Romanian, Hungarian and similar languages, not English, German, French, Italian. As we now see what we have here. That is why I would like to propose to you, colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, and to remove the amendment from your hands.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u142	Your Honor! I think that policy back in the past has now been more than perceptible in some performances. The world, ladies and gentlemen, and I wish you good morning, has changed. Today, if you want an auto mechanic, because some of you have talked about auto mechanics, you need to know English so that you can use computers to program and detect faults in vehicles. And if he uses a computer for some German vehicles, he has to master German because that program is only available in German. This comparison is said to be completely wrong. In addition, it is likely that in a modern, united Europe it will also have foreign customers, not just from the country. The car doesn't know where to ruin it, either at home or abroad. That is to say, these debates are, to say the least, meaningless and even meaningless. What needs to be done as a comparison is not a comparison between our village and the city, but today, when Slovenia is part of a united Europe, a comparison must be made between us, between Slovenia and the rest of the United Europe, to see what puts our children on the labour market in a privileged position or at least equally and what puts them in a deprived position. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a relevant comparison. And if we looked at the website of the European Union, we could see that, at this point, in many, even in most European countries, children from 13 years of age are learning compulsory two foreign languages, and that is the official direction of the European Union from 2008. More. Between these countries, you will not believe, you will find our first neighbours: Austria and Italy then Germany. And look at the interestingness of German, it would be hard to say that it is not a world language, but it is compulsory to learn two more languages before the age of 13. The proposal you are advocating here today does not bring us closer to the European Union, but distances us from it. Worse yet, it is far worse to place our children in the labour market of a modern united Europe in a deprived position in the future. What is the truth about learning languages in this early age? To through the game, through various special forms gets that fundamental sense of language that does not use then, excuse me, such a "Indian English" as some of the current government, if you want, from the top down. I'm sure he has a wonderful vocabulary and a terrible excuse. While the children have a different feeling. Children have a sense of sound, and if they get that feeling, they develop abilities completely different from those of later years. Of course, it is also a matter of proper professional application. But is that really such a problem? If we are now going to watch lists of schools, ladies and gentlemen, you will see how many schools in Slovenia are already learning at least two foreign languages, and this is very successful; some of these statements can also be seen on television or read and heard in the media. So why is there so much resistance? I don't know, maybe it's because of prestige, because it was adopted earlier, or maybe it's just something he doesn't want. On the other hand, I have to say, it's not clear either. Why? Look, a lot of people complain, yeah, we have a lot of personnel in this area. Yeah, people of God, that's why they're educations. And it has been well known for a long time, it is not since yesterday that such an obligation is provided for in existing legislation. Now it's moving somewhere into the bright future. Personally, I think it's a big mistake. These are developmental errors, like, for example, your pension reform and some other things that you have done in the last period, which will simply not be remediable with anything, because they do not only work at this moment, but then capture the next generation. And the scissors that you open up, like the pension, when it comes to the question of everyone who "entered" into employment institutions or early retirement, or in this case – scissors when it comes to the knowledge of young generations. There is simply no way to replace this with anything else. And once again, given that since 2008, this is the official direction of the European Union, given that some of the largest countries in the European Union, besides Germany, are doing so, France is also the world language. Not to list all others, or, if you want, Belgium, Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Cyprus, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Luxembourg, Malta, Austria, Poland, Romania, Finland, Sweden, Greece Should I indicate? But when it comes to Slovenia, no. This proposal is not appropriate in your opinion and needs to be moved. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of our next generation. It is a matter of the speed of our development and, above all, that our children are at least equally placed on the labour market of a united Europe side by side. That's what this is about. That is why your proposal is weak and therefore it would be worth adopting the amendment in the form that was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which I certainly support.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan, would you like to explain your position? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u144	By his usual custom, Mr Grimes attributes to people what you should actually get. For this reason, I must explain that Mr Grimes did not properly understand what I was about to say. I wanted to say that children from elementary school forward and from birth are very diverse and that some of the tendencies they have in technical skills, others in languages, third in history and so on. And when a child does not want to learn something, he is failing and his self - image is worse from day to day. To force a child into learning another foreign language, and at the same time to have no qualified professors who can pass on substances to children, I think it is what you really want — unsuccessful children in primary school.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u146	I could have replicated Mrs Potrati before, but it's obviously not worth it. I asked the minister, and I also said in my first performance that he told me 260 teachers were missing, and I did it again. The problem is he didn't answer me. I asked him what we had done to train teachers since 2007 when the law was passed. Nobody wants to answer that because we didn't do anything. The minister said, "We let go for a while and nothing happened." Of itself, of course, because rarely things happen on their own. And now we find out we have a problem. If we had done something in these two years, it would have been a much smaller problem than we are now talking about. Nor do we say that anyone can teach another foreign language and agree that this is not professional. A few statistics: in 2006/2007 we had 168 000 children in primary schools and 14 thousand teachers, a year later we had 3,000 fewer children and a thousand teachers more, next year we had 3,000 students less and a thousand teachers more, that is 16,000. Now, tell me, 12% less children are in school than they were in 2009, and we say that we lack teachers, and obviously we have enough teachers for selected foreign language subjects. After all, selective subjects are taught by teachers or by those who are there. And I understand that children are diverse. Indeed they are, but everyone must learn mathematics, and I will bet that many more would have decided that they did not want to learn mathematics rather than a foreign language. It's stupid to say, then half the classes in school can be cancelled, but we've decided on something and we do things like that. And if some things had happened, the minister was prepared at the beginning of his term to reduce the school's ballast by 30%, which is why the children are overloaded. Now these things are resting, waiting for the white book and so on. Of course, it is an overburden if we are not certain things that together we find that we do not need and that children learn too much detail in many ways, not the key. Finally, international analyses show this, where we are not the best. And here we should also ask ourselves about the quality of teachers. Some of you have been able to tell us how good teachers need to be. I agree with that, of course. But look, 165 doesn't have the right education. What have we done with these people for two years? Did we send them to education or what we did with them? That's what I wanted to know, and that's what I asked on the board today. And don't put it in my mouth that I don't understand whether 200 teachers are too small or 260, because I'm asking other things, but no. A colleague of mine said we were intruding. Of course, by force, in 2007, this force had given up long ago, and if we wanted to do something at that time, we would have done it and things would have been different. As my colleagues have already said, I also know some teachers who are at the Employment Institute. Not all teachers of foreign languages are, indeed, but some are or might be. If we didn't spend European money on active employment policy on a variety of things, instead of training them to learn another foreign language, and we wouldn't be dealing with things we talked about three years ago, even today, and now we've moved for two years, and in two years we'll say again, "Yes, but now we have 200 teachers, but 60 are still missing, let's give it two years." It's just putting things somewhere in the light of the future, said Branko, I don't know if it's gonna be that bright. And in the European publication Key Data on Teaching Languages, Slovenia is listed among countries where two foreign languages are taught. It is now likely that next time we will fall off the list of countries with complete democracy, just as we fall on media freedom and all other international scales. However, I would suggest that we get concrete answers, because this is not an answer for me that there are 260 teachers missing, but according to the statistics I have already mentioned, given the data on how many foreign language selections we have, how many people there teach, whether they are qualified or not. Only if we had that kind of analysis could we talk about it. And in the bill of law and explanation, it was not the main problem of lack of personnel, which has now become the main problem, at least that's where I didn't understand, but that some students have failed to meet the standards of knowledge or have failed to reach that minimum. But it's also in mathematics and not anywhere else, probably in a larger percentage than it is here. And so we would expect before things change that way, one analysis, and above all, we would expect to do something. If we have a commitment and if it is written in the law that we must do so by the 2011/2012 school year, we should direct all forces to do so, but not to put it somewhere else in the future, then someone else should deal with it. I will support our amendment, and I expect a little more concrete answers and data, otherwise it is very difficult to decide if we have any information selection that someone estimates that they can give us.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u147	The Minister for Education and Sport, Dr. Igor Lukšič, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u148	Thank you, Vice President. If things look the way some of you do here, then we should first change the constitution and introduce authoritarian political arrangements. In this case, the Minister could drag people by the hair first to college, beat them there to do it in an early hour, it is said that if the law was passed in 2007, the former Minister should have done it and would now have them in line waiting exactly as we planned. It's called a planned economy, and that's what we've given up, and the planning economy, if it wants to work, has to have an authoritarian arrangement. We don't have that. And that's why we need to look at how many people there are right now. People in Slovenia decide to study after their own performances for once. And when they're done, not all of them are teachers, but they go somewhere else, some of them who went to college. This is impossible to expect from a school director, but this has been true for a fellow Beast as it is for me and, hopefully, for someone else, there will be no such change in the regime as you implicitly suggest. However, this must wait for people to know clearly where the jobs are, where we expect their engagement. And that's what we gave, that's what the previous government gave. The National Assembly has accepted and things are running. And they run well. However, with regard to the early introduction of foreign languages, it is clear from neurological research that the best contact with a foreign language in the first year of age is up to 12 months of age, and then this willingness, especially for foreign language learning, falls to 7 years of age. If you want to do something about introducing another foreign language, you have to hurry to kindergarten, and we'll do it. We'll go with the proposal to go to kindergarten in the first foreign language. Then we must make sure that this foreign language, which will be introduced in kindergarten, is also in the first, second, third and so forth class of primary school. But it's not like we're putting something down here, something that we think is there, and then we're fighting with all the power of the minister and everything in order to walk and serve our performances. That's not a good policy. What we have, however, must be taken into account, the facts at our disposal, and the system that exists. People make voluntary decisions on these matters, and let's take this into account. And there's something else. Schools also made voluntary decisions. After the first programme, it was based on the fact that all of us here find that we are for another foreign language, it was the assumption that schools would make more massive decisions, but unfortunately they are not. We still need to maintain and maintain this sequence. We cannot force schools more than to encourage them in some way, encourage them by applying, having the opportunity to apply for funds, and also having the opportunity to raise their reputation in their own environment. This is not an ideological distinction between someone who is opposed to the introduction of another foreign language and someone who is in favor. We're all in. Only what the Government or the Ministry proposes is to take into account this small difference, which exists that we do not have enough qualified people in 2011 to do so in 2011. We hope that it will happen by 2013, though very difficult. Based on what do we hope? Since interpretation schools have also been introduced in the meantime, which, with some addition to their education, can also provide graduates who will conform to this teaching. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u150	Thank you very much. That is precisely what should be introduced in kindergartens, Minister, because I fully agree that when a child is young or in those first years of life, he does not know how to absorb foreign languages. But it better be in junior high than later. And here is the point of this amendment, or even the decision in the previous term, that we went into such a solution. But here I would comment either on misinterpretation or on the poor listening of the predecessors, Mrs Potrate and Mrs Pecanova, when I was giving the example of the lady who taught in England. She was not a lecturer, she studied and studied with a degree in England in English and was so capable of teaching there successfully. But when she came to Slovenia for a seminar that she did not have at the time, she could not get a job in elementary school. And here I find out for myself, and I am sure that there are some shortcomings or some bureaucratic obstacles that could be addressed. I firmly believe that the many who study foreign languages, even in order to teach them, if they have no meaning in themselves, no seminar, no extra education courses or whatever they have to have will lead them to learn to teach children knowledge. And so I firmly believe that a lot of people who can speak a foreign language know it well, but they don't have to study it, so that they can be tested with some tests or with some courses to see if they can teach if not permanently, but perhaps for at least a certain period of time, children at those beginnings. And I remember how it used to be when I was walking alone, and a lot of you, in elementary school, when they forced us to learn the Serbian language. And who taught us? No one with any pedagogical schools, pedagogical classes. He was a teacher from the former republics of Yugoslavia, without the knowledge of Slovenian, and he had to learn. Whether we have learned or not, it doesn't matter. But what I'm trying to say is that now that we're creating some obstacles for ourselves, it doesn't make sense, because that doesn't lead to our goals, so that we can start teaching our children as soon as possible. And I am still firmly convinced that in these two, three years, a systematic approach could provide an adequate number of people who would also teach. However, I do not think that we would have all those courses, all those prescribed procedures that teachers have to have to satisfy those criteria, which, after all, are more or less likely to monopolize the teaching profession, so that not everyone who wants to do so can easily enter this system. I think it makes sense that this amendment should also be accepted and that this path is moving forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Pukšič and Mr Grims have been notified. Anybody else want some? Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Minister! However, it may be possible to bring this to a satisfactory end in some primary schools, since in some primary schools children have a foreign language from the first to the ninth classes and a foreign language from the second to the ninth classes. In what way? In such a way that one foreign language from the second to the sixth classes is optionally financed by the municipalities, where the municipalities are optionally financed by the municipalities, is compulsory for all children who naturally want it, but therefore all go to this other foreign language. One foreign language optionally takes place from 1st to 3rd grade, starting in the fourth with the regular and 6th classes ahead, i.e. 7, 8, 9, and another foreign language is carried out as a project to which, from experience, children have been going from 2nd to 6th grade. And if an amendment were to require a second foreign language from the seventh grade onward, perhaps in so - called schools that were like sample schools, just as some of the other things worked on the transition to a nine - year - old after the system of sample primary schools, they would not all go at once — and it would show how much they had been seized. In fact, where two foreign languages are held from 1st to 9th grade, or from 2nd grade, because it is not important or optional, project and so on, in short, with some combinations and at the expense of the budget of the municipality, where they are aware that investing in education is more than giving a kilometer of road, that it is a long-term project, it would be right for the Ministry of Education and this government coalition to listen to and start with the project of this compulsory second foreign language in 7th grade. There, Minister, is no problem for the frame, there is also a frame, and where the frame is, of course, it is now only about whether you are willing to settle it from the state budget or whether it will remain on the shoulders of the municipalities, those who are aware of it. Those congregations that have been cultivating this for more than 10 years will continue to do so. Whether he listens to you or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u154	Thanks again. I must say that I am extremely happy and honored that Mr Minister has shared with us so vividly his wet dreams of what he would do in some totalitarian system. However, I would be much more pleased if you could give us such an accurate picture of what he has done in the past two years as the Minister, whose measures he has taken to ensure that this law is respected, because the law is binding, and in particular to make a comparison if it now offers an additional solution to move the introduction of another foreign language for the next two years, whose additional new, different measures will take in these two years, so that we will not find again in two years that we are at the same point as today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Nobody. I conclude the debate on the amendment and Article 1 and thus also conclude this item on the agenda or interrupt this item on the agenda and the 23rd meeting of the assembly, which we will continue with the votes. Please, Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u156	I'm sorry. If the amendment was not voted on, then I would suggest that the final version be voted on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u157	Thank you very much. This will have to be proposed by the Minister after we have voted in second reading. We are therefore moving to a vote on the decisions we have taken so far. We'll vote at 4:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u158	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. Continue with the interrupted 2nd item of the agenda – discusses the proposal for a law on the recognition of qualifications by a doctor, doctor specialist, doctor of dental medicine and doctor of dental medicine specialist, emergency procedure. We will continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled by 2010.12.2010, which is the new material number 2 and you received it on the bench. We are moving on to a decision on the first amendment, the SDS amendment, to Article 7. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of DeSUS, LDS, SD and Indeed to Article 7, this is an amendment under Article 2. At the same time, I warn you, if this amendment under number two is adopted, the amendment under number three will be irrelevant. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This has made the amendment to Article 7 irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 20. At the same time, I remind you that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 23; if the amendment to Article 20 is not adopted, the amendment becomes irrelevant to Article 23. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This has made the amendment to Article 23 irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the 34th Article of DeSUS, LDS, SD and Zares. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 7 and 34 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article or to these two articles. I guess not. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third hearing. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. France Tsukati has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. This law concerns the practical intervention of doctors from the republics of the former Yugoslavia or the release of imports. We understand the problem of lack of doctors in Slovenia and we also understand this attempt to put out this fire or to limit this fire. However, we do not understand what our human resources policy has done so far in Slovenia. Since 1995, this is said to be more than fifteen years ago, the Medical Chamber has already pointed out the needs of the staff, points to the extremely high average age of doctors and the dire shortage of doctors. But nothing happened in the meantime. And given the fact that even before it was just Ljubljana Medical School, when it was not yet Mariborian, more than 200 graduates were rejected each year because of such restrictions on medical studies. And even now that we have a medical college in Maribor, the average is 200 rejected per year. If we count 15 years, this means that 3,000 Slovenian graduates have been rejected. They've probably shifted to other social sciences that are hard to employ, and that's why we have a number of unoccupied graduates today, with a huge shortage of Slovenian doctors. It's kind of hard for me, I know a lot of people who wanted to study, but Slovenia didn't allow them, they're unemployed, they want to be doctors, they're focused on it, they haven't been able to do it, and now they're allowed to do it. Moreover, the University of Maribor has been blocked for two years. The construction of the Maribor Medical College is in strange ways blocked. Moreover, even this year, as informed by the University of Medicine in Maribor, at least ten students could be added to the university and the Ministry of Higher Education does not allow them or has adopted a rule that no more students will be financed than last year. I think that this is a real problem of our policy, not only the policies of the Ministry of Higher Education, but also of the Ministry of Health, because the Government decides on these matters and our Minister of Health sits on this government. In doing so, we will vote on our conscience. I will vote for myself, though with great pain in my heart, how we work with our Slovenian graduates.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u160	Thank you very much. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors shall be given by the Victory of Jelinčič Plemeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Despite the fact that we will vote in favour of this amendment, I think it is still necessary to warn the Minister that he and the Minister of Higher Education should once be seated and that they should do something about medical studies. The fact is that only those who had the best results with all possible additions in high school or high school are wrong to take medicine. That's what I mean. That's bad. If we look at doctors, the best doctors, we find that very few of them were high school graduates. But that they were people who had a broad view of a lot of other things that they were interested in, not that they were, in their own words, just nerds with a thick "zicled" and friendly smiles for their teachers or professors. The fact is that this is the way we lose our brain potentials, because the breadth of thinking does not allow us to be or, in very rare cases, allows us to be excellent in high school, with all the recommendations. If Einstein were to live with us, Einstein wouldn't be, because he would have been thrown out of school a long time ago. God forbid he should be allowed any study. Maybe we could direct him to some locksmith. Well, maybe then I'd come to the Slovenian Parliament as a locksmith, but I don't think so. It would make sense for the Minister to sit down in this regard as well. I also don't know how meaningful it is to limit admission to medical school, because natural selection, first grade study selection shows who's going to go ahead and who's going to stay. It would make sense to address these issues with one broader debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. It is true that in the last 15 years we have been able to monitor the absence of a human resources policy in the field of health care and the different assessments of how many doctors in Slovenia are lacking. The solution to this problem or the failure to resolve this problem cannot be seen from the current minister. The Minister conducted a series of talks and set up a series of activities that go in one direction to increase enrolment at both Faculty of Medicine in Slovenia. On the other hand, he proposed a law that deals with faster and uniform recognition of the qualifications of doctors from third countries. This law brings about a single procedure, on the one hand it also brings all professional guards to avoid entering Slovenia into the area of personnel that will not be professionally appropriate. The protection also brings law in the sense that none of the doctors will be able to get a job if they do not master the Slovenian language. These are the arguments that convince us in the LDS Club that we will be a manna of the number of doctors who have, when we look at the age structure of doctors and the lack of doctors for certain activities, short-term solutions that can work for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to reduce waiting types in the most acute areas and thus increase accessibility. Once again, all the safeguards provided in the law will ensure the professional competence of all those doctors who will enter the Slovenian health system and come from third countries. I want all procedures under the call for the contractor to build the medical faculty to be carried out in such a way that the project is implemented. I still remember in 2003 when we confirmed by consensus here in the National Assembly the establishment of a medical faculty with the desire to replace all those deficits from past years by increasing the enrolment of our Slovenian graduates in these two faculties. And this law, which we are about to adopt today, certainly has no intention of kicking out any local people, local medical graduates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I understand you'll vote in favour if I understand you correctly. Breaking up, sorry. Mr Pukšič, explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group? In my own name. Is there any other group that would like to explain the voice? He doesn't want to. Mr. Franz Pukšič in his own name, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I will support this marriage. But I would like to say what is known. We also have several doctors at home in Slovenia who can happen to them that due to some administrative obstacles the Medical Chamber will be able to stay on the road tomorrow and will no longer be able to do their work. Doctors who are working today have 10 years to work and will lose their license to work as general physician for the first time due to these abnormal bureaucratic obstacles. Secondly, Mr Minister, I have been warned, I have been informed that several Slovenian young doctors, diplomats who have completed their studies at home and are waiting for the possibility of a specialisation invitation, say that there are no registered specialties and are therefore staying at home, registered at the employment agency. However, I am pleased that this government coalition has changed its mind from 2001 until now, as then Minister Keber, I think in 2001, was still talking about the fact that we do not need another medical faculty and not doctors. It is high time, however, that in Maribor we give students and students of medicine the opportunity to study under normal conditions, not the same as now. And I don't know why it's necessary to punish the Stairs again. Besides, it looks like you're so used to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u166	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 3. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda – the proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the Public Sector Wage System Act, an urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 5 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda – the draft law on amendments and additions to the Public Finance Act, the urgent procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Law-Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would be inconsistent. He doesn't want to. The explanation for the vote in his own name is mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u167	Honorable President of the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues! I think that this law is before us primarily because of the efforts made by the Public Finance Supervisory Commission in this direction. An important part of the law relates to the solution of the problem if it is not taken into account in the final accounts of the opinion of the auditors and that it may even happen, as has been the case in the past, that the final accounts have not been accepted in the National Assembly. In such a case, the current law on public finances, which, by the way, has been imposed on the Ministry of Finance by the Commission for the supervision of public finances, should therefore be corrected by the Government in accordance with the audit proposals and re-transmitted to Parliament for adoption. I think that in this way we have taken a major step forward in the sense that if there were serious reservations to the adoption of the final accounts due to the negative opinion of the auditors, the Government has a requisition to correct the final accounts and make them acceptable to the professional or supreme State auditor. I have observed at a meeting of the working body that a number of people, especially the Government and the Ministry of Finance, do not know that the Court of Auditors is the highest audit body and that the representatives of the Government have put aside the Court of Auditors, so I say that this law on public finances is an important upgrade to the existing situation in this segment, and that it even has a number of shortcomings, gaps and inconsistencies in the remaining provisions that the Government has attached to this solution, so I will not vote against this novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Breda Pecan has an explanation in his own name. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u169	Thank you very much. As I have already said on behalf of the Group of Members in explaining the position of the Group, I will now say once again that I will personally vote in favour of this law, because this law is due to the demands of our Group of Members and also of the Zares, LDS and DeSUS Group since 2009, when we have dealt with the final budget account for 2007 and we have been forced to re-vote the final account when we rejected it, if the final account cannot be corrected. For this reason, I believe that it has been high time for the Government to amend the Public Finance Act and that we will now open the way for no matter what political option leads the country, the final budget account for any year of this century and continue to be designed and adopted in such a way that the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia can give it a positive opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u170	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 82 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Public Finance Act. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Primary Schools, within the framework of the shorter procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. Alenka Jeraj has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u171	Thank you for your word. We will, of course, support our amendment in our parliamentary group because we estimate that with little effort we could put in place another foreign language in the next school year. The data show that between 2000 and today, the number of children decreased by as much as 12%, or when we look at the school year 2006/2007, when 168 thousand children and 14 thousand teachers were in primary schools, that the number had decreased by 3,000 children each year and the number of teachers had increased by 1,000 each year. For this reason, we find it rather incomprehensible that the Ministry is changing the law without personnel. We assess and are convinced that it is not really possible for anyone in primary school to teach that learning must be professional, but we have not received answers to what the Ministry has done since 2007 when the law was amended and such a decision has been made, so that the staff will also be able to do so. The Minister stated that 165 people teaching another foreign language today lacked adequate education, nor did he say what he had done in the two years he had been Minister, and in saying that the children were further burdened with another foreign language, we wanted to point out and also asked the Minister when he would fulfill his promise to reduce the substance in primary schools by 30%, because he himself noted that there was a bit of ballast in the curriculum. He said this several times, but of course none of this happened, despite the fact that, at the conclusion of the previous government, this had been prepared and things had to be realized. We will also support our amendment because Slovenia is now on the list of countries where they are learning a compulsory other foreign language, but we fear that the next publication will not do so and we will fall out of the club of countries with complete democracy and fall into a club of countries with imperfect democracy. All other democratic standards also reduce media freedom and a whole set of other indicators measured across Europe. Slovenia is falling everywhere and we will obviously fall here too, so of course I suggest that our amendment be supported If it is not adopted, we will not vote for the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u172	Thank you very much. An explanation of vote on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors shall be given by the Victory of Jelinčič Plemeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. We will support this amendment. The fact is, I don't know why things have to move, I don't know, for a few years now, and then for a few years, and then for a few years, while schools in Europe are learning 2, 3 languages. When children finish primary school in Belgium, they speak at least 3 languages and usually 4 languages. But I don't know if our kids are more stupid or maybe just teachers are more stupid because they can't do it the way they should, or maybe the minister, I don't know. One wonders how it's possible to get things out of the way, but we can't get them out of the way. We also continue to insist that Latin, and Greek, the old Greek, is some kind of backward bourgeois revolution and I don't know what else, whereas all those who want to study humanities, not FDV, true humanities, must know Latin and it is good if they also know Greek. But no, we don't have to do it in Slovenia, we'll do it somehow, because the bigger fools we'll have, the easier we'll rule them, and the easier we'll pull them by the nose. I think it's necessary for children to learn as much as possible. If we want to compete with Europe, where we are lagging behind more and more from day to day, we will only be able to compete with knowledge. The Shenthflorian Valley won't help anyone. And if Slovenia is actually one long Shenthflorian valley with two million house numbers, it's damn sad, and let's at least take some children who still have brains and let's give them some knowledge. Let's give them what they need. But not to excuse ourselves that teachers didn't have time to prepare. Then one wonders if our teachers know anything if it takes two, three or not how many years to prepare for something like this. I think this amendment needs to be absolutely accepted if we want our own good. But if we want only faithful voters who will be as stupid as possible, then no, but I'm not up for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to explain the voice? He doesn't want to. I'm opening an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. The explanation for the vote in his own name is mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u175	Your Honor! I firmly believe that the key criterion for deciding the future of our children is also the direction of the European Union. Since 2008, the European Union has been formally involved in the introduction of two foreign languages in primary school. And let me remind you that Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Cyprus, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Luxembourg, Malta, Austria, Poland, Romania, Finland, Sweden and Greece, and any other country would already be learning two foreign languages in primary school. While I am warning that Spanish, French and German are certainly the ranks of the world’s languages, they teach two foreign languages in their schools as an obligation. It is therefore a question of when we will allow our children to take an equal stand with all these citizens on the European labour market. It is the future of Slovenia, the development issue, the future of our children. And there's something else I'm warning you about. The proposal, as has now been written by the Government, which opposes this amendment to postpone, distances us from the European Union and distances us from this direction. And more than that, I say it causes social inequality. For, ladies and gentlemen, the children of wealthy parents certainly have the opportunity, for these parents will take care of additional education, for paid hours of additional instruction and that they will eventually have excellent knowledge of two foreign languages. We owe this opportunity, I'm sure, to give it to everyone. Here it goes, once again, for a developmental issue. For this and for the future of our children, I will vote in favour of the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Please, Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u177	Thank you very much. The predecessor has nicely identified countries that are significantly larger than Slovenia and already have two foreign languages in their curriculum. For Slovenia knowledge of languages is one of the key priorities, since, despite being a relatively successful country with the high knowledge that our children and students and students achieve, this knowledge is significantly less useful if there is also no knowledge of foreign languages. Thus, such excuses that this compulsory teaching of a foreign language cannot be carried out because we do not have enough qualified people to teach it. If the Ministry of Education and its institutions were to do everything in this time of year to educate people properly, and I am sure that there are more than enough of them in Slovenia with sufficient knowledge to train them with some additional courses, this study could also be carried out. Just as an explanation that our children are overburdened, that compulsory teaching of foreign languages is still an additional burden, it is also somewhat unusual. If the child is overburdened, he is likely to be overburdened by objects that may indeed be pure ballast and should be considered removing such items from the curriculum. Certainly not that the foreign language, which is one of the key in the future of every young person, is thus removed. This amendment of ours restores this position, so I will support it. I believe that in a year or two the situation will be exactly the same as it is now, because those Ministry announcements that this could only start after 2013 are attracted to hair, because if nothing has been done so far, it will not now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Since it's still an interest, I'm reopening applications. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Majda Potter. [[He doesn't want to.]] Miran Györek has an explanation of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u179	Thank you for your word, President. Colleagues and colleagues! I fully agree with all the predecessors who support the amendments tabled by the SDS Group. However, I cannot agree with the Minister's argument and justifications, which unfortunately is not here at the moment, but also with certain positions of Members in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u180	Györek, there's no more time for controversy, just an explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u181	Excuse me, President. Why do I agree with this amendment? As a teacher of foreign languages with a 30-year practice in this part, I cannot be convinced by someone that this is such a demanding measure, a recent reform of education, the introduction of another foreign language at the primary level. By the fact that the law, if we go into formal matters already adopted in 2007, has also been the rule, and that formal conditions have been given, that experimental steps have been taken, how to introduce this, where the results are positive. Now someone's convincing me that it took him all these years to figure out that 165 teachers were missing, which it's not going to hold. Don't convince me that the situation with teachers is as difficult as it was with doctors as we had in the previous marriage today. So, the damage we do to our youth, the damage we do to the future of this youth, so please, between the lines I was even told on MDT that there is no money. Isn't there money for that sort of thing? Yeah, that's really sad. We are doing science, we are complicating formalities about the introduction of another foreign language, which is already in place in Europe, across Europe, is the law, it is in implementation. Positive solutions are evident that children can learn more foreign languages. And as I said in my client's position, there are differences between financially more capable and less capable families. Someone can afford education, extra education, and someone can't. By this law, [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Just Bevk's explanation of voice. [[No, no, ……]] Marian Crossman. [[No, no, ……]] The explanation of vote in his own name is given by Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. One good feature of laws is that they are enforceable. As a solid Dutch or Flemish speaker in a legally defined bilingual Brussels, I have little to do with this knowledge, especially with younger speakers. Now the Belgian laws can say that four languages are spoken there by young people or I don't know what, that's not the case. As a solid German speaker, I also have nothing to do with German in Brussels, not with French, nor with the Flemish-speaking people. So I'm left with this one foreign language that is probably the most widely known and taught throughout Europe, that's English. Because I would not like to be just as discreet in Slovenian laws between what is written and what is feasible, of course I cannot support this amendment. None of us want our children to be taught languages by people who do not have a good and sufficient education, as of course we do not want our doctors to be educated by teachers who are not good enough or to be taught in college premises, which was built on a quick basis for which, I don't know, European money was spent untransparently where transactions were committed on friendly terms to some local friends. None of us want that. If so, then we will also have in this House and elsewhere a bunch of amateur historians who do not even know that Albert Einstein has not completed formal education. That is why, of course, I will vote against it because I want things to be done honestly, as they should be. A little later, maybe a little later.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of the Victory of the Elinčič Trinitarian. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I think that not only do we create inequality, but we also create inequality by not supporting this amendment. See, the Italian minority, the children learn Italian, Slovenian and, say, English. In the Hungarian minority, they learn Hungarian, Slovenian and English. Other children in Slovenia learn only their mother tongue, Slovenian, and English. It's already about inequality. If we compare everything with the European Union, we are even lower. And that you need to train some teachers I don't know how intensely that they will start learning in the seventh grade by German count, I think more or less every Slovenian can count to ten. I don't know what special training should be for these teachers. Or they may need some time to take a few months to take courses somewhere in a resort or something. I don't think there's any additional funds that some unionists are talking about here because they're in pain that we should work more and not get any more money. I think it makes sense to accept this amendment, and properly, if we care about our children.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u186	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 42. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 42]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendment has not been adopted for second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home working body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. 50 votes to 23. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union, within the framework of the regular procedure. As no further amendments to the amended law have been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. At the same time, I would like to point out that two thirds of the Members present must vote in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 3a of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia for the adoption of that law. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. It's 76 votes against no one. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned item 17 of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Amendments and the Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, under the ordinary procedure. Since the amendments to the supplementary proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure have not been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly would be inconsistent. At the same time, I would like to point out that two thirds of the Members present must vote in accordance with Article 94 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in order to adopt amendments and to supplement the Rules of Procedure. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. It's 79 votes against no one. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure are adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the bill on promoting coherent regional development. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present. It was 51 votes against 28. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated in second reading to the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Banking Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the Banking Act is suitable for further consideration. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u187	Your Honor! The Group will support the proposal that the law is suitable for further consideration, namely, we believe that it is necessary to inform the public or the public and, last but not least, to take note of all the business involved, business relations between members or management bodies of banks and entrepreneurs sitting in these bodies of banks. Too often, in particular, in this government's mandate, we have the same people in important bank supervision bodies and at the same time these same people are the presidents of the administrations or directors of the companies that operate with these banks. At least, for such transactions, especially during the period of economic and financial crisis, it is possible to have a bias, some of the different behaviours of the bank in the case of such specific cases. Just look at the case. A prominent member of the SD, Mr Danilo Toplek, is in the same person the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Credit Bank Maribor, the dominant state bank in the area of Stajerska, and is also the president of one of the largest companies, that is Taluma in Kidrič. Not to mention that he was and probably is, as we don't know yet, a silent associate of some quiet company, a company that deals with the Talum. We're dealing with some kind of clientelism, bringing together important functions in one and the same person. And that's not a coincidence. This is because there is also a euro coming from these functions, mainly on a private account. Therefore, by this proposal of the Banking Act, we want all important transactions between such a bank and such a company to be disclosed in order to take into account the Public Company Management Code, which is important and also requires certain preventive behaviour in such conflicts of interest. This is one of the key objectives and also the desire of this banking law. We're not banning business, which could be harmful. However, we want all businesses to be exposed and these transactions to be transparent. I think that this would make an important step forward in the culture of corporate governance in Slovenia and in the culture of behaviour of financial institutions towards businesses. Most of the problems of today's banks and the financial sector stem from the irresponsible lending of these banks to influential ones, such as the various Presidents of Mercury administrations, the Pivovarna Laško Group, Istrabenz Group and so on. It's not the ratings of these companies, it's the personal sciences. We want this to be revealed, and that is the essence of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The explanation, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, is mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support this law because we believe it is certainly a step in the right direction. I'm not saying that it solves all the problems that have arisen in our banking system. But it can certainly be a step in the right direction. This will save the future. But I wonder what we're gonna do about the past. Will anyone be responsible for such and other wrong moves that have been made in the New Ljubljana Bank, perhaps in any other bank? Will the Board be responsible for issued loans that are controversial, which have been allocated practically on the basis of friendly relationships or "pretty eyes", as it is called? Will the Governing Council be in line? Whether the partners in Nova Ljubljanska Banka – KBC will answer, and therefore the foreigners who are sitting in the administration, however, there have been such and different anomalies in the business. With this law, we certainly don't solve things backwards, but we should. But we can ease things forward. I believe that this law should certainly be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u190	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 36. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the National Assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Finance, monetary policy as a parent labour body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for an act on the ratification of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters and the Protocol on the amendment of the Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a bill on the ratification of the agreement on the seat between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which reported in writing to the Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of a framework agreement on a large-scale partnership and cooperation between the European Community and its member states on one side and the Republic of Indonesia on the other, with a summary list. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 1. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. At the end of the day, this is at the confirmation of the Official Clearing House of the Law on Administrative Taxis and the Official Clearing House of the Law on the Market of Financial Institutions. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and confirmed by the National Assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Administrative Fees Act is officially revised. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of that proposal has been officially clarified by the National Assembly. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The text of the Financial Instruments Market Act is officially consolidated. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of that Act has been officially clarified by the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We will first consider the proposal for a candidate list of the President of the Republic of Slovenia as a member of the Council of Justice. The President of the Republic of Slovenia shall act by letter of 30. 11. In 2010, pursuant to Article 131 of the Constitution of the Republic and Article 21(1) of the Law on Courts, he submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a candidate list for a member of the Council of Justice elected by the National Assembly. On the basis of Article 41 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly sent a proposal to the Mandate-Electorial Commission and called for a replacement election for one member of the Council elected by the National Assembly. Because she was a member of the Council of Justice, Doc. Dr. Etelka Korpic Horvat 18. 9. On the basis of Article 16 of the Constitutional Court Act, she was elected a Constitutional Judge. The President of the Republic of Slovenia thus proposed to be a member of the Council of Justice Prof. Vesno Rijavec and the lawyer Roman Završk and presented their work so far in the proposal. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a vote on the proposal for a candidate list by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for a member of the Council of Justice. The first paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on the Courts provides that the proposed number of candidates must be greater than the number of members elected, but the maximum number of members elected must be higher. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 21 of the Law on the Courts of Election, the National Assembly shall act by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 22 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are: Anton Kolarič, DS, Robert Hrvat SDS, Franci Kek, Really and Jakob Presečnik, SLS. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Deputy Secretary-General Matjaž Plevelj will also be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the proposal for a commission? No one's objecting. If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 1. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 82 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to the Members by each individual to the table of the President and by his name and surname. Only one candidate shall be voted for by surrounding a serial number in front of the name of the candidate for which the vote is taken. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice, from which the Member's will is not clear. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate for which the majority of the Members who have delivered the votes in force shall be elected. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed votes in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members, please assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where you will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 5:10 p.m. and will last until 17.25 p.m. After the vote, I ask that the Members, who will help me in the voting, gather in the room. The vote will take until 17.25 and I interrupt this item on the agenda and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 5.40 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-20-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u191	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to the session. We are moving on to the consideration of the 27th item, the proposal for a candidate list of the President of the Republic of Slovenia as a member of the Council of Justice. I will read to you the minutes on the outcome of the vote in alternate elections for one member of the Council of Justice of the Republic of Slovenia. The vote was held at the Assembly premises on 20 December 2010. 78 ballots were distributed, 53 ballots were delivered, 25 ballots were invalid, 53 were valid. The candidates received the following number of votes: Dr. Vesna Rijavec 46 votes and Roman Završek 7 votes. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Vesna Rijavec was elected as a member of the Judicial Council of the Republic of Slovenia by a majority of the votes cast by the Members. The member shall be elected until the expiry of the period for which a member of the Council of Justice has been elected, for which the term of office has expired prematurely. [[The signature of the members of the electoral commission who presided over the vote.]] I congratulate the elected members of the Council of Justice, Dr Vesna Rijavec, and I wish a great deal of success in the performance of my duties. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals of the Court of Justice for election to a judicial function, with proposals for conclusions. The Court of Justice submitted four proposals to the National Assembly for election to a judicial function, namely, in the Court of Justice of the two District Judges at the District Court in Grosuplje and two District Judges at the District Court in Koper. The proposals were addressed by the Mandate-Election Commission as the working body and submitted proposals for conclusions to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals for decisions. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the appointment of mags. Irene Jeraj to the courthouse of the District Court of Justice in Grosuplje. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 1. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision appointing Mr Djordjet Grbovic as the judge of the District Court in Grosuplje. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 1. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision appointing Špela Grilc to the court seat of the District Court in the District Court in Koper. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision appointing Karin the Watchman to the court seat of the District Court in the District Court in Koper. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to a hearing on the request of the District Court in Piran for a permit to initiate criminal proceedings against a district judge, a saint at the District Court in Cyprus. For consideration of the meeting, the District Court in Piran submitted the notice. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which submitted a report to the assembly with a proposal for a decision. The mandate-holder committee shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 134(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 99 of the Judicial Service Act, in relation to the request of the District Court in Piran, supported by: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1-K-2174/2009, of 12.7.2010, for the decision to initiate criminal proceedings against the District Court of Justice of the District Court of Cyprus, Oriano Trunkel for a criminal offence under Article 159 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, does not grant immunity to the District Court of Justice in Koper Oriana Trunkel and permit the conduct of criminal proceedings. On the basis of Article 240, in relation to the 207th Rule of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 12. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of a notice from the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, concerning the indictment against the MP of the National Assembly. The notice was forwarded to the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, for consideration of the meeting. The notification was addressed by the Commission on Elections as a parent working body, which submitted a report to the assembly with a proposal for a decision. The mandate-holder commission shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members, concerning the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, Section of Criminal Procedure, number VK 63309/2010, of 10. 11. 2010, on the motion filed against Member of the National Assembly of Anton Anderlič for the offence of issuing official secrecy under Article 266, paragraph 1, of the Penal Code, does not recognise the immunity of Member of the National Assembly, Anton Anderlić, and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. On the basis of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. 68 votes against no one. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of a notice from the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, concerning a personal action against a Member of the National Assembly. The notice was submitted for consideration by the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department. The notification was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which submitted a report to the assembly by means of a proposal for a decision. The mandate-holder commission shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members, concerning the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, Section of Criminal Procedure, IK 35201/2010, of 18. 11. 2010, on a personal action brought against the Member of the National Assembly of the Victory of Jelinčič the Trinitarian for the four offences of an offensive charge under the second, in relation to the first paragraph of Article 160 of the Penal Code-1 and the criminal offence of regret under the second paragraph of Article 158 of the Penal Code-1, does not grant immunity to the MP of the National Assembly of the Victory of Jelinčič the Trimenite and permit the conduct of criminal proceedings. On the basis of Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on a proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present. 68 votes against no one. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the discharge and appointment of the President of the Election Commission. The draft decision was tabled by the Group of Social Democrats. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will resolve President Dusan Kumer, the Group of Social Democrats, in the Mandate-Election Commission, and will call Bojan Kontic, the Group of Social Democrats. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. It's 72 votes to 1. [[The vote was 72.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Roads, within the framework of the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Thursday, 16. 12. 2010 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a bill-maker, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third examination of the draft law. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled that you received on the bench. I am putting to the debate Article 78 and the amendment of the SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS to Article 78 of the Act. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? [[He doesn't want to.]] That is why I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, LDS, DeSUS to the 78th Article of the Act. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendment. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendment adopted, the bill would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the 11th item of the agenda, third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Road Traffic Rules, under the regular procedure The National Assembly is on Thursday, 16. 12. 2010 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a bill-maker, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third examination of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 7. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the 12th item of the agenda – third reading of the Drivers Bill, under the regular procedure The National Assembly is on Thursday, 12. 12. 2010 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a bill-maker, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third examination of the draft law. We are moving on to the debate on the proposed amendment of SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS to Article 5. Anybody want to talk? I find that no, so I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS to Article 5. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendment. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendment adopted, the bill would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I therefore note that the law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 23rd session of the Assembly. Thank you so much and good night.
