ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u1	Madam Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I am starting with the continuation of the 15th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Janja Klasinc, Melita Župevc, Andreja Črnak Meglič, Renata Brunskole from 3 p.m. on, mag. Franc Žnidaršič, Bogdan Barovich, Milenko Ziherl, Marijan Pojbič, Roberto Battelli, Anton Kolarič and Mag. Anton Rop. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY - FIRST DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE SCHOOL FOOD LEGISLATION, IN THE FIELD OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members, with the first-signed Bevk, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Alenka Kovšca, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education and Sport, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u2	Good afternoon. Thank you for your word. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! According to the health organisation, one in five children in the European Union is already overweight and Slovenia does not give up much. A well-planned and organised school diet is increasingly proving to be the most effective correction of an irregular family diet that cannot fulfill its purpose if the child rejects it. Therefore, the educational and educational role of the school in developing awareness of healthy nutrition, eating habits, food culture and responsible attitudes to itself and its health is of paramount importance. This is also the reason that school meals are part of school development policy from entry into primary school to completion of secondary school. Schools, both primary and secondary, must organize at least one meal of food per day for pupils and pupils. This is provided for by sectoral laws. The last law adopted was the Act on subsidising the student diet, which entered into force with the school year 2008/2009. It brought a radical change to the area that was comparablely regulated in primary and secondary schools prior to its regulation by abolishing social subsidisation and introducing a fully free meal for high school students. The evaluation of the effects after the first year of implementation showed that the students were pleased to accept the opportunity offered, but also highlighted the fact that the situation in school environments, the eating habits of secondary schools, the physical and human capacity of secondary schools and the values of society, as shown in the inadequate relationship to free meals, were not taken into account. Therefore, the principals of secondary schools also suggested that we regulate and resolve the following issue: to offer, in addition to a hot meal, a healthy cold meal, so that students can contribute their share in order to establish social differentiation in the regression and regulation of their own kitchens and dining rooms. Thus, a non-systemic and under-thinking approach to the implementation of this right was one of the key reasons for finding a solution to the changes in school nutrition legislation. In addition to the shortcomings in the complete subsidisation system of the student diet, it is obvious that there is also a mismatch between subsidised meals systems in primary schools. While students generally have several meals, which have been partially subsidised for many years, but exclusively on the basis of social status. The provision of comparablely regulated vertical subsidisation is, of course, an additional key objective of the new bill. With the proposal for a new School Diet Act, we therefore want to achieve the following specific objectives: to allow all pupils and students access to healthy school meals, taking into account the guidelines for nutrition; to unify the organisation of school meals in primary and secondary schools; to provide students and students with less conducive environments with cheaper or free school meals; to enable secondary schools to offer students a meal that is not necessarily a warm meal but a healthy meal; to direct and commit students and students to responsible food treatment; to improve the control of the dedicated and transparent use of public resources to subsidise school nutrition; and to reduce the number of regulations with a view to reducing administrative barriers. That is why we believe that you will be favored with the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented only by Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a School Food Act. The proposed law regulates school nutrition more comprehensively and fairly in secondary schools and extends the right to subsidised nutrition to primary school students. Each student and student in the Republic of Slovenia will receive a subsidy of two-thirds of the price of a meal and the remaining third will be paid by parents according to the amount of income. Following the adoption of the proposal in the National Assembly, an additional 100,000 pupils will be entitled to the right of subsidised nutrition. On the other hand, the right to a free meal will benefit as many as 90,000 students. Thus, each of the 248 thousand 772 pupils and pupils will be entitled to a subsidised or free meal. The expansion of the beneficiaries of the subsidised diet is only one of the positive changes introduced by the proposal for a law. In addition to a fairer redistribution of funds, the law will regulate the recording of consumption, allow more discretion to be given to applications for additional subsidies and allow for a warm meal of healthy meals. Even though warm and tasty hotdogs, pizzas and bureks, they do not match the definition of healthy diet. Therefore, it is so important that the consistency of the menu with the nutrition guidelines will be accompanied by the Institute for Health Protection. At least once a year, they will be able to express their satisfaction to those who are assigned a meal or who pay it, students, and parents. The proposed law is also expected to guide children and adolescents to more responsible food treatment. As studies have shown, 10% of meals of junk or discarded waste are not even discussed on the food remaining on the plates. Given that €40 million is allocated from the budget for the regressive diet, at least €4 million or a billion former tolars are thus discarded each year. Can we ever, even now, afford such irresponsible spending of taxpayer money? Discarded food is not the only consequence of the indiscretion of the law adopted by the previous government during the electoral year. Malnutrition of food quality, unfulfilled promise of a warm meal for all, problems with recording consumption, lack of equipment or even absence of dining rooms, kitchens and distribution facilities are just additional anomalies that were passed by law in 2008. In all the debates so far, the Social Democrats have supported attempts to tackle the issue in a comprehensive manner, not only following the motive for the pre-election appeal of the authorities by universal distribution of rights to all. The principle of the social state today more often requires measures where those who have and can are solidarity with those who do not have and cannot. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the proposed innovation still largely preserves the level of rights of those with a better social situation, which is a valuable achievement under the given conditions of respect. In the current public debate, the power of opponents of the law has repeatedly been to hear that the government is saving at the expense of the students, which of course it does not. The Ministry of Education and Sport has managed to maintain the resources for regressive nutrition in the 2010 and 2011 budgets and will not save anything by means of a measure. It should also be pointed out that the Diagnostic Organization of Slovenia, which some political parties abuse as an argument of their opposition to the proposed law, supports the vast majority of the solutions in the proposal. The Diagnostic Organisation supports the change of a hot meal to a healthy meal, supports the prior application for a meal, also supports investment in school infrastructure and internal control. The only point where the Diagnostic Organisation and the Applicant differ is the issue of the contribution of the student work to a smaller portion of the value of the meal. But only in the proposed way can the area be regulated more fairly and the possibility of a healthy meal can also be offered to students. Let us not forget, however, that students are also future students, who will be allowed to adopt a law that allows them to eat subsidised or free of charge throughout all the years of primary and secondary education. In the Group of Social Democrats, we share our concern with all those who point out the plight of primary school parents who are unable to pay their children a healthy meal in school. That is why we will also support the conclusion in the Group of Social Democrats that the proposal for a school diet law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u6	Procedural proposal. The Honorable President. I would suggest that all colleagues discussing the law on diocese diets look at who introduced this law in the previous term. This law has been tabled by Members, not submitted by the Government. And all those who speak on behalf of the parliamentary group and who are to be discussed would remind you to speak correctly on the matters that have been done in the previous term. I was the first to sign this law alone. The government has only submitted its opinion to this law. And we fixed the law in accordance with the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. President-in-Office [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u7	Mr. Tanko, you've made your point. Do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u8	Of course I do. I suggest that Members go to the website or Lotus Notes [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u9	All right, Mr. Tanko. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u10	in 2008 to see who the drafter of the law is and that there are discussions in this National Assembly [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I think you warned me about that. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u12	And I suggest that they stop deceiving who's what and [[....]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u13	Mr. Tanko, you wanted procedural. You said essentially a substantive issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u14	Dear President, the time to explain the procedural proposal is three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u15	Where do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u16	I still have 1 minute and 37 seconds available under the rules of procedure. I do not think it is appropriate that, as President of the National Assembly and as Chair of this meeting, you, who is obliged to take care of the proper and commercial conduct of the meetings of the National Assembly, interrupt the speaker in this manner. I suggest that the debates in this National Assembly are correct. And that, in the case of the honourable President of the National Assembly, when Members in their positions or on their behalf do not provide accurate or accurate information to remind them of this. Because it does not lead to any discussion going as well as it should. The time to prepare was enough, the time was a month, and I don't know how much. And colleague Bevk, who also participated in the previous term in the debate on this law, could actually know who proposed who was the first to sign and also what solutions were adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u17	Yes, Mr Tanko, you have misused the possibility of a procedural proposal because it was not a procedural proposal, but a substantive debate, a correction of some data. Procedurally, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The Head of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group has violated the Rules of Procedure and has misused the proposal to clarify some incorrect statements. He has disputed practically with the position of the Group of Social Democrats, so he will have the opportunity to speak as a Member and then to express his views in the debate of Members and Members. However, in their presentations they do not dispute each other, so this was incorrect and I hope, Mr President, because exactly five hours will be left to discuss this law so that you will no longer allow the abuse of the rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. Bevk. As the first abuse of the rules of procedure was the second, but we are done with it. Mr Tanko said that he had proposed the law, perhaps he had forgotten to tell the other information that I, for example, supported this law. But let's just leave it. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alenka Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u20	Good-bye, everyone. The proposal for a school nutrition law seeks to regulate uniform nutrition in primary and secondary schools. Those we have supported and voted in the previous term, namely, the Law on subsidised diocese diet, because this area has been completely unregulated, cannot escape the impression that the current ruling party and the coalition in particular want to abolish one so-called pre-election candy, which must now be eliminated or eliminated. Eliminate all positive effects and all that the law has brought to the students. That the marriage was well-adopted proves more than one thing. At our addresses, and I'm sure yours, too, are receiving positive responses. When we visit the field, students and their parents say that this was really one of the best measures, and it is good that the diet of high school students is arranged in this way. For our government, this was the first step, so for the previous term, they would have done the second - they would have subsidized food in primary schools and thus burdened the parents. The smart government continues to take positive measures and preserves what is good, not to step back or even to take a few steps back and take something that has proved positive. From a government that likes to boast about the social sense, and its biggest party even bears that name, we would expect it to continue with this social sensitivity for young people, as we often say that young people stand on the world and that young people are our greatest wealth. This is what we rightly expected, and probably also the voters and voters who have been given such promises. In fact, coalition parties have entered into a coalition contract or envisaged the gradual provision of free, warm, unhealthy meals to a large number of the most socially vulnerable pupils and pupils in primary school. The Coalition Treaty did not provide for the termination of any overpayment of a warm meal for pupils or extra payments by students. Why, then, such an approach and why the minister felt obliged to do more than they did with coalition partners in the coalition contract. It's probably not easy to defend such a law, so there's no minister here today. Everything that the former government has done is obviously necessary, what it has done is to be changed, if even for the worse. However, we cannot agree to this in the SDS Group of Members. The Minister in explanation for the law provides data on child obesity and malnutrition, precisely because of the commitments we have made in the various documents, the Resolution on the National Food Policy Programme and the like, should maintain the current way that has taken on more young people and is equitable and fair to all contributing to healthy nutrition. The Student Diet Act or the Free Warm Meal for Students is to be abolished on the basis of preliminary analyses to show how much food is being disposed of, according to the minister. In the first statements on this subject, he discusses analyses after the passing of one year of implementation of the law, which he said in April 2009, even though the law began to apply with 1. 9. 2008, which means that it was practically four months in total and throughout Slovenia that between 10% and 50% of all food should be discarded. Later, this percentage decreased considerably. By the way, we know that we also have some food left at home, and the same percentage, between 5% and 10%, is also in primary schools, and no one has opened this problem to this day. Although some partial studies have been carried out, such as in Celje. In fact, the Ministry has not done any serious research, at least it is not in the explanatory notes, nor in the law, nor has the Ministry provided it to us. According to our data, at the end of the school year, the Ministry of Secondary Education provided a questionnaire on the implementation of the student diet law. According to representatives of the ministry, as we have not seen, it turns out that a warm meal is provided to 88% of the schools and 79% of the students enjoy it. The Diagnostic Organisation cites different data, so it would be correct for ministers and government representatives to receive these analyses. Absolutely before the law changes, we would expect a thorough analysis of the Student Diet Act - I ask the Minister to convey this to us, the Secretary of State will convey to him - because it was a big project and it was certainly necessary to analyse the project or how things were going on in the field and then to pass on a law that would maybe eliminate those things that proved problematic. We therefore expect the Minister to make public and to provide us with all the findings of this questionnaire, as well as the answers of individual schools. Over- or discarded free student meals - according to school data - are expected to be discarded, as I said, by 5% to 10% of food and is comparable to primary schools - are in particular a systemic problem that could be easily addressed by modernising the ordering system and by stricter control over the quantity of meals consumed. Some principals also spoke about this and said that food organisation was a key issue. If the organisation is good, the students should be consistent in signing up and applying for a hot meal, and they should not be scattered with food. Most of the problems in the first year of providing free meals for students were of an organisational nature, and the poor organisation consequently means more discarded or unused food. During this time, most schools managed surprisingly well to organize the student diet despite the initial problems. According to a study by the Diajska Organizacija Slovenije, which covered a third of secondary schools, the Student Nutrition Act, i.e. the provision of a warm meal to students, has consistently carried out 88% of schools in one year. At first, the percentage of students who ate moved between 60% and 70%, but when we came into the crisis, this figure rose to more than 75%. According to research carried out by the Ministry of Health, which confirmed this percentage, nutrition is expected to be well implemented in 90% of schools. The proposer mentions the importance of healthy nutrition. Adolescents need at least five healthy meals a day. With this purpose in 2009, the Ministry supported the Dijaška Diet competition, which took place under the auspices of the Institute for Health Protection. These data should also be included in the draft law. The main purpose of the competition was to support the introduction of a free hot meal in Slovenian secondary schools. Young people should be encouraged to enjoy a healthy, balanced and quality diet. And a free warm meal for high school students was an introduction to regulating the issue of organised nutrition among high school students. The profession says that the youth is supposed to have a quality breakfast before school, that we all find that it does not happen, quantitatively smaller and by quality as best as possible during school, so it is a bridge meal, and lunch after school. So the school meal is supposed to be a bridge meal, but unfortunately, it's not. According to a regional survey in Celjska, for the first time, about a dozen students are at home or when they return from school. Free nutrition is a real blessing for many, as students spend up to €60 a month on out-of-school nutrition. The same study showed that only 17% of respondents in the first year were dissatisfied with free hot meals, that is a thousand 600, so every intervention in this area is a step backwards or even a few more steps back in our opinion. After the adoption of our law, all students have the same chance of a healthy meal. This means raising and socializing them in the spirit of healthy nutrition, thus dissuading them from fast food and its consequences. In Sweden, for example, they give everyone the same. We could say the previous government gave, and this one takes, and this to the children. The bill is extremely unsocial, for example, the country currently contributes about €500 to the student diet at the annual level, according to which it is estimated to be less than a third. The Minister's consideration of representing the colors of social democracy, in particular in a given situation, should go in the opposite direction: how to relieve parents and raise young people in this area, or at least adhere to coalition agreements. We might want to consider introducing milk in schools, free publicly available apples in schools, and so forth. We fear that the system of subsidisation due to irregular records will not be fair. It is generally known that there are generally no social risks among the subsidised. This is seen publicly in parental payments in kindergartens and in eligible subsidised nutrition in primary schools. The Ministry of Education has also pointed out that the Ministry of Labour has proposed to wait until new social legislation has been adopted or the social project has been completed, i.e. all social transfers from one city. The bill would probably reduce the amount of parental defaults in primary schools, but we are concerned that this problem will then be reopened in secondary schools. The non-payment system or the systemic problem of parental non-payment is a problem that the minister should try to solve, not to import it into secondary schools. Successful recovery as a prerequisite requires accurate record keeping, so more people will have to be employed and trained in schools. Implementation is carried out on a judicial basis, so schools will also have to have reserved funds, for lawyers, costs and the like for this purpose. Let us recall cases from primary schools where some schools have even gone into liquidity problems because of default and slow court mills. The proposal introduces a whole set of new records and is therefore already irrational from the point of view of the organisation. We have tried to remove bureaucratic obstacles, to introduce only what is really necessary, not additional bureaucratic obstacles. By keeping records at a time when there is great uncertainty on the market, when we do not have a clear wealth picture of individuals, when 1 cent can already mean that you move to another category, not only does it mean that you are constantly changing the picture, who is entitled or not to an individual subsidy, but it also means a completely specific cost. Article 25 states what students will have to acquire. Most of this data is already available at the school, but someone will have to collect it, report it, report it to the Ministry, input it into the central records and so on. You'll have to hire an extra person to run high school. Let's leave it at what it's worth and what it'll do in the summer months when the students aren't at school. How many meals this brings to the annual level for all schools can be calculated, I hope the Ministry has these calculations and will also provide them to us. According to our estimates, 150 people should be employed. With the bill, the Ministry obviously also wants to access additional files of students and students. He is already collecting some information that he needs for his work. We ask the Minister: Have you anticipated new employees, how much and what will be the cost of these new employees? The Office of the Information Officer shall also be detained until such collection of personal data. She pointed out that the system of rights in our country is still too complex and we are now introducing this complexity in the field of student diet. Simplification, however, can only be a universal income system, which represents the current student diet system. The Office has explicitly stressed that absolute fairness with the proposed system will not be achieved. For example, people can have accounts abroad, and the property they use is not theirs, and so on. The proposed law states that in a given economic situation it is not possible to obtain more money for these purposes. Just for a little while. The data show that the Ministry of Education has not spent all resources for this purpose. Initially, 50 million were earmarked for this purpose, then reduced by a rebalance to 38, I am talking about 2009, and in fact some over 30 million were used. This means that more than €7 million remain on this item, which is understandable because the level of funds for this purpose in the budget is determined according to the students enrolled. As we know, not everyone eats or sometimes logs out, so there is already a reserve, and the reserve is that the number of students decreases, we know that because of demographics or data. Thus, at the annual level, this item would have been reduced by half a million per year, but if we had done a little more in the management of procedures or in the system of better control, it would have saved that much at the annual level. This is an important savings that would mean a lot of meals in all the years to come. In our opinion, the bill will lead to new social categories within the diocese population. Even if we say that they will not be separated by who is subsidized up to the amount of €8 which is 16 we know exactly that. Even in primary schools, regardless of whether or not the parents mail the application for a regressive diet. And it doesn't work by paying food for the wealth of parents, because we know that such and similar measures then lead people to find a way through, and the reality is not, and those who are not socially at risk are among the beneficiaries. So it will be at the symbolic level of food for the poor. There is a great danger of social distribution not only among students but also among students. It is generally known that the population in secondary schools is very sensitive to these issues and, in our view, the bill is harmful in this respect. Collateral damage, if a few children eat lunch, which, according to their parents' incomes, does not belong to free lunch, would be significantly lower than the damage that will occur if students divide into these three categories: poorer, poorer, less poorer. The bill also has a poor traveller from the point of view of implementation in the public, as it is largely opposed by directors, parents and their associations and students. The Minister ignored not only the general opposition to the public to the abolition of the free warm meal for students, but also more than 22,000 signatures collected by the Diagnostic Organization, over 15,000 signatures collected by the Youth of Slovenia and students formally representing them, who were supposed to be an example to them as the first educator of future citizens, and thus clearly ignored the way of social dialogue and decision-making. My predecessor pointed out what the Diagnostic Organization supports. The Diagnostic Organization has made it very clear that it does not agree with the law. She wrote about it, first handed over over more than 22,000 signatures to the minister, said she agreed in principle with the new bill and could not agree to lower the subsidy. In this regard, a letter was addressed to the President of the Government and invited him not to adopt a proposal for a school nutrition law with the content proposed by the school ministry. This was supported by the Slovenian Student Organisation, the Union of Education, Education, Science and Culture and the Union of European Student Organisations. But obviously for our minister, that means nothing. The proposal for a law sets out the nominal amount of co-financing by the State. This means that the change in this amount will only be possible through a change in the law, which is in the National Assembly, which means that this amount will not change, irrespective of the economic situation in the country, irrespective of the demand for free food for all students, students and the like, but the National Assembly will have to deal with the question of how much ham in the sandwich is going to be at the expense of the State each year. In both cases, it is a total waste of time which the Ministry will be able to peacefully compensate by adopting a subsidy rule each year. The bill is also very restrictive to external school food providers: food procurement, preparation for distribution of meals, in particular to legal persons of a private nature, i.e. catering providers. In more than half of high school, a warm meal for students is provided by external contractors who, when the law was passed, invested, otherwise organised their work and will probably cause them untold problems. Furthermore, the law does not provide that students would be involved in the selection of hot meals menus or that their wishes must be taken into account in any way. This was one of the arguments when the minister proposed an amendment to the law on financing education and education, when he also gave students to the holy school, because he felt that the students should be included, they should be able to say what they themselves thought, and he said on some occasion, "The guest should also assess the guest." Well, in that case, he excludes the students. Hence, students will not be able to influence what they eat or what will happen. The proposal also brings a number of new fines for schools, from which we can conclude that even the billmaker does not believe that the law can be implemented in practice, so it is necessary to set fines and increase the number of potential sanctions, to increase them that the non-life law will also be enforced if necessary. In my implementation, I have raised quite a few questions to which we would need answers before deciding on the law. I hope the Secretary of State will give them to us as well. I would warn the minister if he thinks that saving on a student’s light will make a green light burn more and that by saving on a student’s diet we will be successful in coming out of the crisis, he is probably wrong. And to say that there is no money, but from 300 million last year to 350 million, we will increase the funds to buy cars, computers and the like, or just this year's interest on loans to 500 million, which would be enough for 15 years of student diet, but there is probably a rather poor argument that we do not fit in with our group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like you to attend. In the Group of Members, we really agree with the proposal for a law and welcome the key objectives followed by the text of the bill. In order to increase fairness and even distribution of goods, we also extend the food subsidy from secondary schools to primary schools, thus ensuring a uniform diet system in primary and secondary schools. The emphasis is also on ensuring quality nutrition and on raising and developing awareness of the importance of healthy nutrition, food culture and a responsible attitude towards yourself, to health and to the environment. According to the proposal of the law, all pupils and students should have a subsidy of 66.12% of the price. The introduction of a scale or additional subsidy will be free of charge for some students and schoolchildren, which is the most socially threatened. Diagnostic diet will be divided into two more stages, about 22% of students will pay the full price, about €16 per month, and about €9 per cent. Of course, we would all like more resources to be made available for this purpose, as in Sweden, for example, already mentioned today. In the present case, it is only a redistribution of the existing items of the Ministry of Education and Sport, and I am sure that no one will object to the introduction of free healthy diet for all children and adolescents when economic conditions allow it. In the current situation, we are extending this basic social solidarity from a group of young people, high school students also to their younger peers, school-bound children. And I think that's good and fair, because I don't see why we would provide free school meals just for students. I don't know if it's speculation because it's about soon-to-be voters or because some of them are already voters, and their five-year-old colleagues and colleagues should not be given this benefit because they probably won't remember which government or, I'm sorry, which MPs have passed one or another law in five or six years. I think it is right and fair to give these opportunities to all school-bound children both in high school and in primary school. It is not fair, for example, that a family with three compulsory children in primary school pays more for the diet of their children than, for example, a family with one child in high school. Determining students to apply for lunch will also help to make it smaller, now that is five to ten percent, food has landed in the trash. If the students weren't there, we could save that food. In order to maintain the necessary school nutrition records in a comprehensive and effective manner, the bill also provides for the establishment of a single information system. There is also a departure from the provision of a warm meal, which has many times not been healthy - here have been illustrated examples - to provide a healthy meal which, say, salad or fruit is, but not of course this warm meal. Care for healthy, regular and proper nutrition, which is of paramount importance for the development and health of everyone, and especially for children in development, is reflected in the general provisions of the bill. With a well-planned school diet, which will have to follow and follow the guidelines for nutrition in educational institutions, this can be an effective correction, despite the irregular diet we have witnessed in these fast, stressful times several times. Of course, the role of the school in developing awareness of healthy eating habits and responsible attitudes towards itself is also indispensable, especially with the latest data on the status of nutrition between children and adolescents, by which we see an increasing trend of overweight and obesity in Slovenia, both in children and adolescents. It can be said that, for example, we have in the field of prevention of such and other legal addictions many laws and rules restricting their advertising, use and so on, even though they are in the developed world of heart and vein disease, which are the result of overnutrition already the first cause of mortality, not, for example, smoking or any other harmful habit. Nevertheless, in this area, we do not know any similar restrictiveness in advertising sweets, fast food and so on, and perhaps we should consider it. The basic objective of the food policy, as defined in the resolution on the national food policy programme for the period 2005-2010, is to provide safe food along the entire food chain to establish, maintain and strengthen the healthy eating habits of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia and to ensure adequate food supplies for the population in a sustainable manner with quality and health. In the Group of Members, we really believe that if we want to pursue these objectives, there should be emphasis on food selection also in seasonal production, as it is food in the local areas needed from field to plate, or from villas to forks, if you want, for the shortest time, without unnecessary long-term transport and long-term storage. Thus, some locally grown fruit and vegetables, for example, provide higher quality and thus higher nutritional value, as fruit and vegetable freshness decreases with time and also with the content of many nutrients in these foods. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the proposal offers good solutions and is therefore suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In addition to subsidisation, which is mainly the subject of discussion in recent months or weeks and also in today's consideration of the proposal of this law, the law also provides for a way of organising nutrition in primary and secondary schools. I will not talk now about the need for organised nutrition of pupils and pupils in primary schools, nor am I an expert at this, but I support the fact that it is organised and daily and regular and proper, as well as the quality proper nutrition of the fundamental condition for successful growth of these most vulnerable young people. I am also aware of this problem, especially the quality of food and local origin. There should certainly be changes in the field of public procurement legislation in this regard. But that's a little bit of a different subject. In order not to transport this food from one end to the other or to avoid excessive quantities of imported food, imported ingredients in the menu in primary and secondary schools, and also in the diet of us, the inhabitants of Slovenia. This law stipulates that if I go to this biggest problem or stumbling block, however we wish, this problem of subsidising lunch in primary and secondary schools, that the price for this subsidised meal should be determined by the Minister, and schools are those who, by appropriate organisation, also provide students with a meal of value that will also be set at the level of the State. The law provides for a general subsidy of 2/3 of the meal price that this general subsidy belongs to all pupils who are registered on this subsidised food in a prescribed manner. The criteria for determining this entitlement are proposed in relation to income per family member, expressed as a percentage of the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia. This is the information contained in the decision to grant the right to a child allowance. And here, according to our assessment, there are the first problems. This is a problem of the reality of all these data and, as a result, the unequal situation of all students and students or their families. This problem is certainly mainly the case with different subsidies and these aids carried out by social work centres, which are obtained from tax administrations and others who are determined to provide these data, which are faced with many problems. As I said before, as a result, there is an unequal situation in this case of students and students. We have calculated roughly what this bill means. They calculated that, according to the proposed subsidy scheme, a good EUR 47 million should be allocated from the State budget at the annual level. If the funding of the lunch were complete to students and students, as envisaged by the existing student law, we would need a good €63 million. It means that for a free meal, all pupils and pupils should be allocated approximately 16 million from the state budget. In this way, we would avoid all of these problems that I have mentioned a little bit earlier with regard to data capture. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that Slovenia should gradually introduce primary education following the example of Finland. In this piece of legislation, we have different cases from other countries. And surely the case of Finland is that where school is actually free, what we say all the time, including in the case of Finland, with school supplies and textbooks, and students also receive a free daily meal. That must be the goal. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we propose that the law should be amended by retaining a free meal for secondary school students and at least gradually dedicating the country, I think that around 30 cents per student and even in primary schools will fully cover the cost of lunch. This also relieves parents of their payments and throws away a lot of administrative work, and worse still, doubts about the correctness or reality of the data. While not directly covered by this law, this problem, which I would like to draw attention to, touches the same people or, above all, the students. This is a problem that is not negligible, which is particularly important for families in rural areas. It is the costs that students have, as said most in remote areas, in places where there are no secondary schools, that is the cost of transportation to school. This cost, despite the possibility of subsidizing for spiritually weak families, is already a serious obstacle to decision - making for the desired school and even causes a lack of education. We have heard this in recent days and months that in several schools, individual students do not come to school because their financial capacity does not allow them to pay for these transportations. Financially, this costs already mean significantly more than the lunch that is needed for other reasons in a particular family mainly in the countryside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by mag. Your Clavor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u26	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members. One of the DeSUS’s programming points is ensuring equal opportunities for all young people to be educated. The same options in this context certainly include, among other things, the nutrition of the entire school population. Thus, Members of the DeSUS have already supported in the past a series of laws or novelties and policies in the general sense, which have gone in the direction of taking care of the regular, healthy, proper diet of pupils, students and students, since adequate nutrition is essential for health and optimal physical and mental development of all children and adolescents. The fact that today, due to the service obligations of parents and the duration of the daily learning process and the integration into school activities in the afternoon, only rare children receive balanced, quality and appropriate day-to-day diets is one of the reasons why we believe that it is high time for primary school students to also be subsidized in a way that applies to students and students - that is, all of them, regardless of their social status. We also believe that, in view of the tight economic situation, the proposal is just and reasonable. Support for the introduction of a subsidised meal in primary school is also justified because the primary school population has so far been placed in a discriminatory position in the case of students and students, as primary education, unlike other levels of education, is compulsory and financed under constitutional provisions from public resources. In the DeSUS Group, we have assessed that the evidence of the bill, as also discussed by the Diagnostic Organization, "to take something to give to others", is unjustifiable, and the fears that it will happen among students due to the introduction of a new system of subsidisation dissipation are indeed unfounded. This is because the analysis of the implementation of the Law on the Subsidisation of the Student Diet has also shown some shortcomings, that these should be organisational in nature, many times, of the locust natures due to spatial things, as well as some of the things that burden students themselves, since they have often shown an inadequate attitude towards free nutrition. We do not see the proposed general two-thirds grant of the student diet as "punishing" of students, because one-fifth of the students, according to data, by not using free lunches, caused food to be found where it should not be, but as an arrangement that would follow the principle of fairness, equality, solidarity and interdependence between members of one generation and between different generations. In particular, in this regard, we also welcome the proposed option of giving up unused meals to humanitarian organisations. The additional subsidisation of socially disadvantaged persons will continue to follow its purpose, while the exceptional situation of children and students in foster care and asylum seekers is another additional social note that marks the proposal of this law. Perhaps I would also point to Article 16 of this Act, which provides for the possibility that the contribution of parents to be paid by the State when the subsidy is granted, i.e. parents pay one third of the price of lunch, may be reduced by the school obtaining additional funds from the municipalities, the contributions of the sponsors, the funds from the school fund and other funds. In implementing this law, which we have adopted with a diametric diet, it is certainly clear that there are differences between different areas, between individual schools, how this is done and how this is done. The content of the bill is, according to our assessment, well prepared. The actual situation is taken into account. The solutions proposed have a positive effect. We are not looking at whether we have ever worked in a student diet for elections or not, and whether we are doing it now or not, let us look at this population that we are talking about. I think that the solutions proposed have a positive impact on the social situation of individuals, and also in an organisational sense, the right guidelines for the effective implementation of the law have been drawn up. Our parliamentary group will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues. As early as 2008, the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group introduced into the procedure a law on the subsidisation of nutrition in primary schools, which would systematically regulate nutrition in primary schools, as it had already done for students and students in secondary schools. At that time we proposed the amount of food subsidy by coordinating transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia in the same way as for students and students. A similar proposal was introduced into the procedure under the mandate 2000-2004. All Members of the Slovenian National Party were also signatories. Unfortunately, it was not in the interest of the then government and coalition to include the draft law in a meeting of the National Assembly. In this mandate, we have already considered a similar law in the Slovenian National Party Group, but we are all well aware of what happens to the proposals of the laws tabled by the opposition. Even if the purpose is good, there is no benefit in that, as the coalition also rejects all the good proposals for laws proposed by the opposition. Not to mention a number of oral and written parliamentary initiatives and questions from Members of the Slovenian National Party in previous mandates. We have finally seen what we have been proposing for seven years. This time comes a proposal by the Government, which does not bother us, because the proposal itself contains similar definitions and objectives as we have proposed in the past: regulating school diet organisation for students and students, subsidising lunch and lunches, the right of students and students to a subsidy, the amount of subsidy, the conditions and procedures for granting subsidies, and monitoring the implementation of the law. In the Republic of Slovenia we have more than 150 or 160 000 primary schools. These are children in the stage of growth and physical development and they have the most important regular and healthy diet. At the same time, it is remarkable popularity and aggressive marketing approach of providers of various types of so-called fast food, fast food. While we do not want to argue that this type of food is not nutritious, all the analyses and opinions of experts indicate that the excessive and regular consumption of such food for young people and young adults is not healthy and is not recommended. On the contrary, on the basis of the experience of the school diet already in place, we can confirm that it is sufficiently varied and meets all the standards of healthy diet. Among other legitimate objectives and purposes of the law, however, the provision of cheaper and free school meals to socially weak and vulnerable pupils and students should be highlighted. The price of lunch and the general subsidy amounting to two-thirds of the meal price is also determined for all pupils who wish to exercise such a right. They can also apply an additional subsidy of one third of the price of lunch, i.e. EUR 0.80 for primary schools and EUR 2.42 for secondary schools, those students and students with income per family member up to 30% of the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia and the amount of one sixth for income prices from 30% to 55%. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that this is likely to achieve the objective of ensuring a healthy, regular, proper diet and indirectly achieving the objective, development and health of our pupils and students. At the same time, such an organisation or the introduction of such school diet also has a educational and educational role to play in relation to awareness of healthy nutrition, healthy eating habits, food culture, etc. The only thing we are concerned about and have certain reservations, reservations, concerns in the Slovenian National Party is the disagreement between the Diagnostic Organisation of Slovenia regarding the amount of the subsidy, because by reducing the subsidy they actually suffered a reduction of the rights they received over a year and a half ago, so also their petitions and their dissatisfaction with more than 20,000 signatures. Let us accept their position with understanding, but we must certainly have in mind the simultaneous subsidisation of school nutrition for primary schoolchildren, as well as the principle of fairness, equality, solidarity, both between primary and secondary schools and between generations themselves. With regard to the forecast reduction in the student food subsidy due to the limited resources to be provided to the Ministry for this purpose only EUR 41 million, certain questions are, of course, raised regarding the unused or unrecovered resources from other budgetary resources. Here we think first of all yesterday's comments or the response of the President of the Government to my parliamentary question about not paying employers for contributions to the pension and disability insurance of a number of thousands of workers, where according to the latest figures, 125 million unpaid and unrecovered debts owed by employers to the country are Circulated. What a small thing it would be if Durs and PIZ were to carry out its tasks consistently in the recovery of that money and it would certainly be a small thing to provide those few million euros and the problem would be solved 100% of the subsidies of the student diet. However, when I hear that the Government wants to solve this problem of unrecovered debts by giving solace to employers in the short term, we may be reluctant to ask ourselves why such unproductive "supplied" statements, not least completely incorrect to all those employers who meet their legal obligations to pay contributions to workers for pension and disability insurance in a fair and regular manner. Especially if we think that legislation already provides for the punishment or sanction of such employers who do not pay the contributions mentioned for their workers, now the state will cover such a large deficit and I am absolutely asking the question from which resources or budget lines the government will cover the debts of the brides, not to say speculative employers. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u29	My friend Györek, I'm sorry, this is a proposal for a school nutrition law. I'd like to warn you, you have a few minutes, but just so you know what law we're discussing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u30	Mr President, since I expected you to interfere with my speech, I've already gotten used to it, but the matter is complex and I want to connect it, show where the money for the student diet could come from. I don't think I'm far away from the darkness.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u31	It's all connected to everything, but not in that way. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u32	Is it a hate speech, maybe?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u33	Not this time, Mr. Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u34	Oh. K., then I'll finish. In short, I'll cut the speech short. Legislation for the recovery of such debts does not have to be adopted, says the sanction, since we already have it, but only consistently has to be implemented, which the Government obviously ignores and rather deals with itself, with the non-productive political persecution of some of its irresponsible ministers, Members and so on. In spite of this, we will support the proposal for a school diet law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Györek. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Healthy meals and proper nutrition are now extremely important factors in our daily lives in a generally recognised opinion. The type of problems and the occurrence of various diseases may result from irregular and unhealthy eating. It is therefore necessary to pay particular attention to this issue in all life periods, especially during the youth life period. Proper and healthy diets can avoid the occurrence of many diseases. In doing so, we can assess that Slovenia, as a country, is concerned about healthy nutrition measures, and is particularly careful when feeding children and young people. To this end, within the framework of the school toll laws adopted, we have provided for the school diet of pupils in primary schools, and special laws also regulate the nutrition of students and students. Since school and student diets were regulated in different ways during different periods of time, it is therefore also vertically different. In the LDS Group, we therefore believe that the proposed School Diet Act is a step in the right direction, as at least in the part of the educational process it creates system unification and a greater degree of fairness and solidarity. In fact, the law regulates all the meals offered by schools, with a focus on lunches that schools need to organise for all students and students, while other meals are an additional offer of the school, according to the needs of students or students. The proposal for a school nutrition law will harmonise the principle of subsidised school nutrition in primary and secondary schools. The existing school diet makes a difference between students and students. Children's inequality is also pointed out by the parents of primary school students, so we support the solution that the country or the Ministry of Education and Sport will enter uniformly in both levels of education with social adjustment, with snack subsidies. All pupils and pupils will receive a general subsidy of two-thirds of the price. The price will be set each year by the Minister for Education and Sport, the current price is 0.8 euros for lunch in primary school and 2.42 euros for lunch in secondary school. So two thirds of this price will be subsidized to all, all who will fill out the application form for school meals. In the next step, the scale is divided into two parts. The student and the student, where income per family member does not exceed 30% of the average wage, will receive a subsidised balance, while in the students there is a category that, if the percentage of income per family member is between 30% and 55%, they are entitled to one sixth of the additional subsidy. Since there are sharp limits for obtaining certain subsidies - for an additional subsidy, consideration should be given to whether it is not possible to allow part of the manoeuvre for a decision in certain specific cases. At the LDS Club, we support the law because we think it is right that the state facilitates the situation there and in those families where it is necessary, for example in families where parents get minimum or lower wages, are unemployed or have other problems. At the same time, it does not necessarily appear to us that the state would give money for snack subsidies to groups that do not need it, so to speak, to well-settled families. This is particularly important in the current situation of the economic and social crisis, when special attention is still needed to help those who actually need help. At the same time, the proposed solutions pay particular attention to strengthening responsible attitudes towards food. That there was still too little of it, it turned out to be in the students as well as in the students. This has been particularly true of free student diet, where significant amounts of food have been discarded, indicating an irresponsible attitude towards food and the irrational use of public money. Therefore, we believe that the new law is a solution that will improve the eating habits of students and students, while at the same time more effective and responsible treatment of public funds. At a significant difference between the price of lunch in primary school according to the price of lunch in high school in LDS, we remind you of the content of the price. Thus, we must not forget that the price of lunch in primary school is not burdened by the price of the cook and the organizer of school meals, since this is financed separately by the Ministry of Education and Sport, while the cost of meals for students of 2,42 euros is also included in the price of the meal, linked to the preparation and distribution of food. In the LDS, we also welcome the proposed solution to fully subsidise lunch prices for those children where income per family member reaches only up to 5% of the average wage in the Republic of Slovenia. In our view, this is a very low threshold, and we propose that this percentage should gradually rise in the coming years, in accordance with the options of the country. The proposal for a school diet law lays the same foundations for healthy nutrition at both levels of education, which we think is extremely important for achieving the highest possible quality. All schools must therefore follow the Guidelines for Nutrition in Educational and Educational Institutions adopted by the Section for General Education of the Republic of Slovenia, taking into account the Resolution on the National Food Policy Programme 2005-2010. At the same time, it seems urgent to us that the guidelines should define the attitude towards the specific eating habits of pupils and students as a reflection of the real situation in society. Many schools have adapted to some different desires, and in the future there will be such needs, as we believe, even more. We believe that schools should be given guidance in the framework of nutrition guidelines to take into account parents' wishes for their children's different diets. In the LDS, we are convinced that only the supply of healthy, varied and balanced nutrition and the provision of at least one meal a day is not sufficient, but awareness of nutrition, food preparation, food responsibility and nutrition should also be given sufficient time to adapt to schools with their schedule and organisation of work. Healthy nutrition must become part of the learning process and a healthy way of life. Since such an approach does not reflect on the introduction of a warm student meal, the implementation of the law alone could not achieve the desired and necessary objectives, which could have had a negative impact on young people’s eating habits. For this reason, the proposed law will be supported by the LDS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! Let me introductoryly say that I agree with the proposed School Diet Act, with several aspects. It is true, as mentioned in one of the positions of the parliamentary groups, that we have in the coalition treaty, as well as in the alternative government programme, that we pay particular attention to the eating habits and healthy nutrition of those who are participants in compulsory education, namely primary schoolchildren. And we believe that the proposed law is following exactly that objective. Of course, it must also be based on the actual situation. Let me quote the age of Slovenian politics of Dr. Bučar, who asked the question that we are sometimes complaining about the extent of rights being violated, replied: "We continue to stress some fundamental rights. That's right, but we all have to realize that we can only live from what we have." I could point out some other thoughts that go all the way in this direction that "policy must nevertheless be taken into account," as he says, "that we must accept that we can survive and come out of the crisis only by living our lives properly." And we should ask ourselves, but not whether we are willing to live with what we have because we want to live beyond our capabilities. And if we always insist on doing so, we won't be able to change anything. In fact, I find it very close to protesting the Diagnostic Organization of Slovenia and collecting 22,000 signatures that the student organisation does not understand that the proposed law takes into account a universal subsidy of two-thirds of the price of a meal and that, in fact, for those who cannot come from socially less stimulating environments, there is still a possibility of a subsidy up to the full price of a meal. But that generation, that population that will gain this law, does not have its own organization to collect signatures and say that it agrees with such a solution or such a bill. And we should also think about that, in fact, that we are also following the guidelines for healthy nutrition. What are these guidelines? Healthy diet is not only quantitative and after food composition a properly composed meal, but it is also important what the energy value of a meal is. Here let me draw attention to some fundamental misunderstandings that we have seen in the law on subsidised diocese diet, when some warm meals, which were supposed to be lunch, wanted to bring closer to what was eating. But according to the principles of healthy diet, breakfast is supposed to bring between 18% and 22% of the energy value of food for the whole day and lunch for the afternoon or afternoon only 10% to 15%, lunch should cover 35% to 40% of the energy value and dinner 15% to 20%. Why am I giving this information? Since lunch cannot replace all daily meals, it can at least replace lunch with a central meal and even less should replace lunch with an energy-intensive meal and a very important meal for the health of the eating habits, which is breakfast. And you should be concerned that because of the schedule, because some people are driving to school, a whole bunch of students and students are running out of this first one, for the health of a very important meal, that's breakfast. So when we talk about school diet, we regulate things by providing a healthy meal, namely that meal that has energy value at lunch. One of the fundamental errors of those who oppose the adoption of the School Food Act is that they read that the law abolishes a warm meal. If those who oppose the law read the bill, they would see that it is also written in this law that students receive normally a warm meal. This is Article 4, which speaks of school meals: "It is generally the school's duty to organise a warm meal." - therefore, the subsidy for this meal is also significantly higher than the subsidy for primary schoolchildren. So, it is not a step backwards, it keeps a warm meal, it allows only the possibility that where, due to various circumstances, they cannot provide either space or the possibility of a warm lunch, they are not the ones who do not provide it, in wrongdoing, as they were now and do not force them to surrogate a warm meal, which was after some sandwiches and tea. Nor is it true that the law would disregard the opinion of students and students in the composition of the menu. See Article 5 of this Act states that the Director or Director may appoint a food group which gives opinions and suggestions on school diet. As this group is composed, the law does not stipulate, but it is left to school diet rules, and the school diet rules are prepared by the director, which is addressed by: the parents’ world, the teaching congregation, students, or students. And the rules are adopted by the school world, where students are also represented in high school. So there's nothing going on with the students' participation. The law also requires that at least once a year the satisfaction with the food offered be checked. I can also see the advantage of this law in article 11 which speaks of unsettled meals. The school gives free leave to other students or students for meals that have not been taken over within the time allowed, but may also leave them to humanitarian organisations that are listed in the development of humanitarian organisations. Thus, the law also stipulates that food that has not been touched can be left to others to eat, and that it is not a matter of neglect, that it is not a matter of discarding, which has sometimes been found in practice. It is certainly important to note in school nutrition that this law also provides for the possibility of subsidising lunches at full price for primary schoolchildren for all those coming from a socially unincentived environment. It is said that even after this salary, when we know that in primary school more than 50% of children also eat lunch, we ensure that those who are most at risk receive more. And if anyone wonders how the Social Democrats can support a law that provides for a subsidy of only two-thirds, but not a full meal subsidy, let me stress: Social Democrats are defending the principle of social justice. He who has more should be prepared to get slightly less out of public funds. And that's the real principle. The most important thing in this regard is that those who want to enjoy a subsidized meal must also make this wish known. And by doing so, he assumes the responsibility of giving the country to use it, but he will not give it to you because it does not love you to take a meal. And in this case, I think the educational component is well-encompassed. I will, as I say, uphold the law. However, I am not saying that it is not possible to improve in the future of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. For me, this amendment to the School Food Act is not acceptable. We feel the same way about all Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party, who we have proposed this law at the time and with which we have given the students a free meal. The law says - I will focus mainly on Article 15, which we will probably all talk about most. So, you're looking for money for primary school meals, and I'm going to say, contrary to the preface, that I'm ashamed that we have a social government or ministers who only think about how to take something from someone, but not how to give someone something. The excuse that these funds are also transferred to primary schools is pure manipulation. The truth is that at all costs it is necessary to amend the good law that was proposed in 2008, that is, in the time of the Janša government, and we have proposed it by the Members and it has also been adopted by the then Parliament. And it must be done at all costs and, if possible, likely. However, it is nice that some of the funds are also transferred to primary schools. One of the main reasons for the amendment of this legislation was the television footage when the trays were shaken to a great extent into trash bins, and this was shown on all television channels all the time. I was surprised at this scene myself at the time, and it seemed to me that we might need to discuss this matter seriously. Today, however, the picture is completely different. When I went to work this morning, my daughter went to school, and I asked her what the situation with this meal looked like. You know what she said to me: "The little ones run out every day." He's gone. And high school is very close to this House. So the picture is completely different. What's the reason it's different now is the question. However, my opinion is that at the beginning of the year when children come to school, some groups, etc., are being established. And the dude is the one who can go out and order a pizza and eat it, not the one who's having lunch in class. Now the picture is completely different. Everybody eats in class, eats everything and runs out. So this can no longer be the reason for this legislation to change. More than 20,000 signatures were collected by a student organization. I believe that a better organisation would bring them together even more; but this does not play a role, already these 22 000 signatures are eloquent enough to oppose what is now being proposed. Now I wonder where the press is, where is the civil initiative now - nowhere, nobody. Once rights have been reduced - nowhere, nobody! Little news, and that's it. I will now use the terminology of some of the former Members from the previous term of office, and I will also appoint them, Mr Cvikl, Mr Lachovnik, who in some situations, when it was necessary to give something to someone else, must be taken elsewhere. Now I'm going to say very much like they said. Instead of the hamaras purchased by the Slovenian Armed Forces, which are in a suspicious manner funded, at least now it turns out, give this money to primary schoolchildren. Instead of equipping helicopters to intervene in Afghanistan, give this money to the elementary school. You know, it's legitimate and possible. Think of the compensations that will be paid to the so-called deleted, we now know they will. These are things that can be arranged. So don't say there's no money; money is, it's just maybe not fair or it's properly distributed. Whoever has ever made up a budget between us knows that if it is given somewhere, it is necessary to take it somewhere. And the only thing is priorities: whether it's school nutrition or military priority. Now I've spoken very demogosically, but I hope you understand what I'm saying. So it's money, not to say it's not there. Today, we Members and Members will end up deciding whether this law goes forward and I will be ashamed if we send such a law forward where the rights acquired are taken away from some. Unless otherwise, this law will have to be corrected by amendments in the following cases, but the fact is that this law is not good. With full responsibility, I say: if the Slovenian Democratic Party were in power today, we would be talking about allowing elementary school students free lunch, not talking about taking something away from someone so that we can give it to others. This is unacceptable to the Slovenian Democratic Party and to me personally. Why was this law adopted in 2008? It was adopted in order to regulate the neglect of eating habits in secondary schools. And after the adoption of this law, the students began to eat healthier, that is a fact. The proposal for this general subsidy of two-thirds of the price of lunch and the possibility of an additional subsidy on the basis of income, on the social situation of the family, will, in my opinion and also in the opinion of the student organisation, lead to additional social distribution. This is what I, as a member of Parliament, who is responsible for pressing the key for or against, cannot land. I think it is necessary to find other resources to provide funds for a free meal for primary school students as well. So, don't talk about what you can do; that is, if you want to! See, at this point, social benefits are being abolished, the Government with the proposals we receive in the National Assembly, beating children, by workers, by pensioners; on the other hand, we receive new and new taxes, and the spending is rising all the time during the crisis. This is the wrong world for me. If there is so much talk about justice, the equalization of primary education and secondary education, then it must be taken care of at all levels, and at the same time. Look, all primary school kids, regardless of their property, get textbooks from school funds funded by the state. High school students have to buy their own textbooks, except for some high school that have this arranged, but these are very, very few. And I'm saying that even primary schoolchildren and students should also be equal, not just in nutrition. So it's also necessary to cut into this area. And to conclude. In 2008, when we adopted this legislation, I will not say you did, but the then composition of the National Assembly is 78 votes in favour and not one vote against this law to introduce a warm meal free of charge for high school students. Today, at least that is how the views of the parliamentary groups were presented, you will eat up your voice that you gave to the students and their parents at the time. At that time, the elections were at the door, and today the elections seem very far away. But I wonder if they're really that far. I think that if this goes on, the elections will be crucial as they seem today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Personally, I am looking forward to continuing where my colleague Hrvat stopped because he said some things that could justify the common membership of one party; the party of social solidarity and the party of peacekeeping. I agree, this country could provide free nutrition for students and elementary school students. That'd be nice. But we're going beyond what we've heard before. If we didn't do business like Patricia's, if we didn't buy Humvees, we wouldn't be buying helicopters. I agree, gentlemen, let's sign a petition, end the army, and then we'll have the money for all of this. That's it! We're all aware of that. Do we have the courage to go so far as to provide the means for what this society really needs: not weapons, but food. Student food, student food. Allow me to interrupt this little demagogic and populist introduction, which has a lot of truth in it, but which unfortunately is not very close to the reality that we are experiencing. Because no one in this House is willing to go this far and the words I agree with, my fellow Croat, should be addressed to, say, the President of the Defence Committee, who feels quite different and is in your party. But the fact is, we have to operate with real frameworks. And the real frameworks are here and today. It is a crisis, an economic, financial, social crisis, a limited opportunity to actually sort things out as we all want. So, there is one possibility whether we are directing part of the budget allocated to these needs, just one category, or how to allocate them in a fairer way, the expectations of other categories will also be more equitable. I regret that decisions have been taken in this House, which have suddenly highlighted dichotomy, the potential conflict of interest between secondary school students and primary school students. They exist in this society and in this crisis also families or parents of elementary school students, let us not forget that, and they are paying today or have they paid full costs to feed students so far - is that right? It's not right! It would be optimal for them to reduce these costs without touching the diet of a student, I agree. Is that possible? After all calculations, this is not possible at the moment. So, how, is it possible only if we make radical decisions, which I agree with, but which most do not agree with. So within a given reality, I think that this law creates the key to redistributing possible funds, which is significantly more equitable than the previous one. It is important not to forget that we do not stop subsidies for student diet. Only 22% of the students, i.e. those students who belong to the wealthier families, will pay this food, this cost in full, and this is the 16-month euro. 44%, that is, say, the middle layer or the middle layer below, but it will pay about €9 a month and the rest will have a free diet. So, these are the facts. In addition, let us forget that this justice goes to the other category that has been discriminated against so far and that discrimination cannot be taken into account in times of crisis. We are all in crisis and we must all be solidarity. I think they need to understand that. And those who think about it will understand - students as well as the parents of the students - we do not interfere in the social security of the students. However, we intervene in a positive way, in the social standard of primary schools or children of families attending primary schools. And that's all. That's the key to the problem. Therefore, let us be aware, the question is whether we want to be justly solidarityd or we want to continue a discriminatory attitude towards part of the population of the Republic of Slovenia. If we do not want to do so, let us accept a realistic and realistic solution. But if we want to be radical and fairer, let us hope! And what a fellow Croat said is the right way, let's hope. Let's find other sources! Where are they? In the defense system, in cooperation with foreign wars! I am the first, and I have even supported even one contested petition to obtain funds and that we will be able to adopt a new law here tomorrow that will equalise positive and restore these rights to all students and ensure them to all students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Have you been mentioned? Yes, Mr Jerovšek, exactly, you have a replica. You don't have a replica. You can't discuss it. Only when you discuss it will you be able to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u44	Yes, but it was not correctly mentioned in my absence. [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. We have to respect the Rules of Procedure. The word is by Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, especially the secretary of state. At the outset, I must say that in principle I agree with the proposed law. In this law, it is very important that students and students have a subsidized lunch of two-thirds of the value of lunch. Of course, I would not personally object if we wrote that we subsidized this 100 percent. Of course, in this case we must also provide funds on the revenue side of the budget. It is very important that we ensure equal opportunities for all, both students and students. We must not forget that primary education, unlike other levels, is compulsory and must in no case be subordinated to non-compulsory education. The situation in the field of school nutrition is, of course, even more important for compulsory programmes. Unfortunately, however, by food suppliers, school meals - here mainly I mean secondary schools, because in most cases they do not have adequate kitchens and dining rooms, primary schools have this more or less everywhere - hears that young people refuse free lunch. Of course, if that is not the case - it has already been said here that it is not so - I look forward to it, because if something is paid, then it is the right thing to eat it. We need to offer students and students in particular a regular, healthy, proper diet, whether it is a warm or cold meal, so I assess. Of course, we must bear in mind that this meal is healthy. I personally reject that the second paragraph of Article 16 states that the contribution of parents may be reduced if the school obtains additional funds from the municipalities for this purpose. In some ways, we impose additional obligations on the municipalities. Of course, then, it is also necessary to say how we will provide these funds. Will the country provide local communities with this? If not, then the congregations will not be in the same position. Those who have more resources at their disposal will be able to do so, but those who do not have it will not be able to do so. Again, differences will be created, as in the vaccination of girls for protection against cancer at the mother's neck or other similar matters, which we conducted in the Slovenian space. Rich and poor congregations will differ even more. This will be even more so in the years that are very important for politics - this is, in the electoral year. The parishional councils will be asked to go to such activities to provide funds, of course, if the parents of students and students, as well as students who are 18 years of age, will round up the number before the mayor's name and name, who will run for the next election. So if we do not provide funds to local communities, then I suggest that we write in this article that the municipalities provide this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. My respects to Madam Secretary as well. I think you've drawn up a positive marriage, with content that saves something, never solves any marriage. Right from the start, I would have distanced myself from talking about school lunches, about students, about children, then there would be no room for such debates, not for politics, not for ideology, and I don't think that's simply the case with this law. I support the solution that what is right in secondary schools becomes the right of children and, on the other hand, the obligation of taxpayers to regulate a right and that children get something. Human say, it is old that an empty bag does not stand alone, as another human said, but of course what is free is not worth much. That is why I think it is a solution and a relationship between two-thirds of the cost of lunch being covered by the system and one-third of the contribution made by better-tempered parents and family budgets, rights, consideration and reflection. However, any such debate is also an opportunity to consider how the costs in the various budgets of family, state and state budgets are indeed being distributed. Look. When we run into lunch costs, there would be too much of every euro, even if a student, a student or a primary school student contributed only €6-9 per month. Then, when our primary school students give 30, 40 euros for mobile phones and more, then, but only for monthly use, then it doesn't bother anyone, and it doesn't bother anyone. When we receive from many Slovenian households the rates that, say, the utility service costs 30, 40 euros per month, then the fire is in the roof, and therefore drinking water, sewage disposal, garbage disposal and, of course, when we are talking about certain articles that are not absolutely necessary for life, then we are not looking at the costs; and this must be the thought of every healthy society, because in healthy and fair nutrition it all ends.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you very much. He's got a word, mag. Andrea Richter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Hello, Secretary of State. When I was preparing for this debate, I looked at a lot of things, read from our debate, your debates, and focused specifically on what I want to point out today in four points - what you say in the opposition, and I do not think is true or even lies. Many times in these materials appear that the government hereby abolishes the free meal. That's not true, far from it! On the contrary, that's a lie. The bill will allow free meals, we have already heard, received at least, a little less than 40% of the students and all the others, all of them, will have subsidised meals, a meal of almost two thirds. I also read that the government will save on students. It's not true again. A big and fat lie. The Ministry of Education and Sport has maintained in the budgets for this year, as well as for 2001 it has maintained all means of repressing food, again, students and students. So it won't save any money. On the contrary, it has provided even European funds, which are an addition or what this law also has its mission and vision to ensure better, quality nutrition for our children, so that until 31 July of this year European funds will be drawn up for a fruit supplement scheme for children in our primary and secondary schools. I also hear, I read, that the measure in the law will mean separating the students from the poorer and richer. As it is not true again, quite this argument of yours, respected colleagues in the opposition, that at the time of your previous reign it led you, somehow you could even say, to noveminate yourself in the sand, not realizing that this country is decomposed and that those who cannot pay all these obligations of parents need to be helped; and to help exactly that children in primary schools get a healthy meal and that the country can help with specific measures. And because of this, your proposal or your claim that we are going to go into a deeper crisis is also not true, because with this measure we will help all those parents, who have also come to the Minister with questions from the Member States, that they can no longer pay their bills in primary schools, that these bills will now be paid by the State and by this law, which will not last allow the Government to do so. Therefore, with all these arguments and reflections, I cannot support the law that is here before us with great joy, and I suggest that you really think about and think about when and how you will support the law and allow, once again, both students and students to have a healthy diet in primary and secondary schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u52	Nice greetings to all present! The law is good, says the Government, the law is great, the MPs of the ruling coalition say, and 22,000 students in Slovenia disagree and oppose it. The wider public opposes him. So what's true? If marriage is so good and it is in the interest of those who disagree with it - then what is the problem? Whether all these people can read what the law says or whether the government and the ruling Members do not want to hear reasoned comments. On the basis of what has been said so far, it is as if the proposal of this law was made solely to show in some formal demonstration how the previous law, which was passed in the previous term - what you repeated as crap, from hour to hour, from month to month - the pre-election candy. And the more we listen to arguments about this new law, the more I'm sure that's true. It would be reasonable to propose better solutions, upgrades through the evaluation of the law; to eliminate what might have proved to be flawed. However, this is not the case. The law, as it is now written, introduces in an important part a very strong administrative bureaucracy, which is totally unnecessary in this area. Nor did anyone wonder how much this strong bureaucracy would cost to implement this law and who would pay these costs, or who would otherwise be entitled to a free diet. So why introduce some solutions in an area that is relatively simple and does not need to introduce new bureaucratic-administrative complications?Oh, my God! Of course, there are good ideas and good solutions in this marriage, as in every marriage. It is therefore wrong to give greater emphasis to what is bad and thus to eliminate what might be good and what could be considered to be supported in the next procedure. However, the systemic law is written in such a way that it is very difficult to support it or in the subsequent procedure to reshape it in order to fulfil the fundamental purpose followed by the Slovenian Democratic Party in its previous mandate when it began gradually introducing the payment of this free meal to students, i.e. the population that was most at risk in this nutritional sense, if I say so in the notes. This was simply a population that, due to its different parameters, did not have an orderly diet in relation to primary school students and others who had it regulated. As a result, it was normal for the first step to be taken in this direction and it would be logical for the first step to be followed by the following, without these rights being reduced because there is no need for this. There is no need to save, not in Hammers, nor in other weapons techniques, the rational behaviour of those who are now in power is sufficient. For a one-year financial impact, it would be enough if someone behaved rationally in just one matter, and that's falcon. In just one year, it has blown up in this case, and this year it is now continuing in the second year, more than it would have been necessary for all children to have free food, and no one will be responsible for the job's work, and I firmly believe that no one will be blamed for the suspicion of this crime of female work at work, and it has erupted, not to hundreds of thousands of euros, because of this undeclared work, but it has erupted into millions of euros just in the case of falcon, not to mention many other cases. We have recently witnessed the government's borrowing of an additional billion euros at 6 billion 300 million debts and guarantees last year. These millions of euros, which are foreseen at the annual level for the nutrition of pupils and primary schoolchildren, are drops into the sea in these numbers and cannot but increase these numbers or reduce them. It would be enough to provide this food for all if only the Ministry behaved more rationally. At the end of last year, we witnessed that 3 million euros, this is one school, with this money being able to build a whole school, the Ministry of Education and Sport has been committed to buying some equipment from different schools, which has been administratively determined that these are all and where they got some cameras and some laptops that they had nothing to do with, but for this it has been spent 3 million euros so that the money on the item that was intended would not be left behind. And how many such cases can we face in various areas. I think it would be right for the Government to come to the National Assembly with a law that is in the interest of those who write this law, unfortunately, is not in their interest, and this has also been proved by enormous opposition to 22,000 signatures, which is huge. I don't think it's possible to ignore that fact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state. At first, when I listen to one, two, three debates, I have to say again that I am from a happy generation because I had free lunch in elementary school. And this the whole time I was in primary school, but I don't have any nostalgia after some others that I wouldn't, but I just want to say that we had a free lunch at primary school once. Secondly, what I would say to the discussion that has been so far - I will also speak from one experience, because last year I was likened to, say, having in all three institutions my last three children of those six, namely, at the university, in high school and in elementary school. So I have little experience in paying or not paying and subsidising this diet, and I will also come out of it. However, to colleagues who are speaking today, they themselves recognize that they are using the rhetoric of Demagog, so that it would be good not to buy any hamsters or anything else, but I would recommend that we use this rhetoric in 2005, when we were purchasing so-called patriots, and today perhaps even hundreds of thousands of elementary schoolchildren would have free food and 2008, when we adopted this law, I would have supported it. First of all, I must say that I have always agreed to positive discrimination against the socially weak, especially in situations such as today, when we are in crisis and when this social dispersion is increasing. Therefore, I must continue to say that in April 2008 I voted in favour of the adoption of the current School Food Act, which was proposed by a group of coalition members at the time, because, like today, they also believe that every attempt to improve young people's eating habits is justified, if not by us, in society. Nevertheless, some Members at the time pointed out some of the shortcomings of the proposal at that time, and the coalition majority did not listen to our proposals at that time. Let me mention only two who are now defined as justifications for amending the law and some solutions that confirm our good intentions and well-intentioned proposals at that time. This is the adjustment of schedules and, last but not least, a warm lunch meal as a substitute for lunch, since today a lot of schools do not have conditions for school kitchens. And not only is there no conditions for school kitchens, but the corresponding offer by the food preparers is also lacking, if I have read the material correctly, even today's distribution facilities, although the law has been in force for two years now, does not have 21% of schools. So in these schools this thing is going on in some other way. Last but not least, we now have two years of experience in implementing that 2008 law, and it is good that we are also coming from this experience. We also have some specific data in the material as accompanying material to this bill proposal and some of the conclusions that I propose to serve us - Mrs Jeraj, you have a possible one who has come from kindergarten and hold back a little while and we will discuss these experiences in the hallway. I'm talking about Can I? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u55	Mr. Kumer, you don't call either, because then someone will answer. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u56	And on these experiences, my support for this law comes. And the first is that the proposed draft law deals more fully and socially with school nutrition in secondary schools and gives rights to all potential future students, as we proposed in the bill at that time, to be introduced into primary school. It goes against that point we made back in 2008. Secondly, the current solutions, which are not exclusively the universal right of all schoolchildren to a healthy diet in school, mean that it will prevent negligence and the use of this rating. We have different experiences here. I used to say from a school where my children go, these experiences are completely different. There's not much food; there's a lot of food left and it's gone. That's where the food stays. I've heard before that she's running out of time to be brought in. Obviously these experiences are different, an examination that has been made and is included in the material shows that this negligence to this rating has some roots and that there is some meat here is not entirely free. And thirdly, these solutions do not reduce what has already been said many times today, the right of students - as some of you want to prove - but they are to use the word of one of the prediscussorts, 'enhancement for additional value with the same financial resources from the budget'. That every potential student - what I said earlier - will also receive this meal in primary school. The law is in some ways more just, as it introduces the solidarity component that is in the situation, as we have today, when we still have the economic crisis, when there is an ever-increasing dissipation, how welcome it is. It is difficult to apply universal patterns in the crisis. Hard! And it is difficult in this situation the universal pattern that all 100,000 and a few children in primary school, the wealthier and those who are not, get this lunch for free. We could've afforded it in the konjunkture, and it was an opportunity. And since the traffic light has already been mentioned today, I'm going to give one more illustration, so I wrote it down here for this traffic light. Although the doors to the recession and crisis were already wide open in April 2008, there was a big traffic light at the front door, where the red light was burning for the crisis and the ruling coalition did not take into account. There were elections outside the door, and many times you drove through the red light, and even in that law, it was obvious. In short, once again, I will support this bill and you can expect improvements in future discussions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Procedural? Here you go, Mrs. Jeraeva.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. So, the explanation of the law is, briefly, the situation in the school year 2008/2009, but some predecessors, including mag. Vasja Klavora was quoted as saying that from the analysis of the implementation of the Law on the Subsidisation of Diagnostic Diet shows this and that. In the same way, colleague Kumer provided some information that was not available from the explanation of the law. I would therefore ask if all Members could also receive an analysis from the Ministry and all this information or if the representative of the Government would come forward and give us this information. We don't have this information and we can't provide it either. We have everything that's in the explanation for the marriage. That's why my procedural proposal is that we get all these documents.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Can we view this as a proposal to the Government that will decide when and in what way will it intervene? The word is from a representative of the government. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Since I was precisely challenged and because you already pointed out in the introduction that the question of which analysis and which data we are coming from is that there are more of these data: the 2010 audit report, the analysis of the nutritional quality of meals in primary schools and in individual regions of the Institute for Health Protection, the analysis of the status of organised nutrition in kindergartens and primary schools and secondary schools, the analysis of the state and organisation of the student diet made by the student community, the 2009 nutrition quality report of the student meals, the Institute for Health Protection, the organisation of nutrition in kindergartens, primary schools and secondary schools, the methodological analysis of the 2008 Pedagogical Institute and the subsidised warm meal in the secondary school, the analysis of the situation at the end of the 2008/2009 school year, where there were 120 responses from 126 institutions. If necessary, and based on these analyses, the Government has also prepared a joint assessment, and another one of the selected schools has been analysed over a period of five months where ordered and consumed meals have been analysed, from which we have subsequently jointly prepared an assessment of the negative financial effects of waste and discarded food. I would also like to take this opportunity to say that, according to the school estimates, the number of meals rejected is 6.9% in the total value of EUR 5834 per day, which at the annual level amounts to EUR 2 million 115 thousand 905. In the meantime, the Court of Auditors carried out an audit and estimated that 13% of the students were partially or completely discarded, and we were accompanied at the selected school for five months by the use or takeover of meals and the difference between ordered and taken meals, and we even reached 30% of the unused meals. I suppose and I believe that there are different situations and also different schools, you have yourself warned - at one school it is so, at another school, probably also according to the organisation, preparation, quality, according to the environment in which this is happening. The fact is that this is happening, and this shows, on the one hand, a responsible or less responsible attitude of schools that organise food, on the other hand, those who supply it and the quality of this diet, and probably also the ability to give up food when you don't contribute. However, I would say that this is not the root cause of the proposed change. It would be an absolute mistake to think that, due to abuse and estimates, we are also changing the law to reject so much and so much food unjustifiably. There are several reasons, described at the outset, among them, of course, that we are thus more just and responsible in allocating our common resources. And also because in fact we find that primary schoolchildren are much more dependent on society, countries, than how we understand their growing up and growing up, than high school students, who can help themselves in all sorts of ways, find themselves, find other ways, and so on. You yourself have found that the intention was to have a free meal for students in primary school. In a situation in which, in economic and economic terms, we have, of course, made a great deal of effort precisely in the fact that the resources for nutrition in the state budget are intended and intended for young people and that it is fairer to arrange this in a way that we allocate the same proportion of food subsidies to primary school students according to their social situation, as well as to students in secondary school according to their social situation. There's something else I'd like to replicate. You say we share the islands with the rich, the poor and the less poor. We don't share them, life shares them, and criminal society. We don't share them. There are poorer, richer and less And of course we can divide this burden more justly or say, according to the theory of the same stomachs, that we are all equally hungry. [[...]] Our decision in this situation was accountable to the budget, responsible to the people and responsible to the children, so that we can resolve and firmly believe that this brings new quality into systemic resolution. I would also say that in many of the discussions that I have had during this time, all of us have been approached by our parents with initiatives to do something about it, so that what is going on will not happen. That's what they say they had some concerns about. We have a statement from the principal who freely admitted to selling this food to the students. We have analyses that show that everything was not as beautiful as it was now organized. That is why we wanted to open up many aspects of this law, not just that. And they're built into marriage, and I think they deserve a different kind of attention than we are now sharing in our discussions. This solution also includes our shared responsibility - after all, the country is ours. And it is our responsibility to regulate life within this country in a way that at least most are about right. I think that, of course, by this law, we are transferring part of it to the population that we think is still in a worse position objectively. And he's growing up. And it is crucial that we also provide them with funds for nutrition and a higher level of nutrition. After all, those who contribute to primary school will contribute only €6 in secondary school, 8 or 16, depending on the material situation. And if you, of course, are now challenging or saying whether the right criteria will be used in this - I am confident that they will, because at least two mechanisms have been put in place. Firstly, the record we will set up at the Ministry on meals and the introduction of ordered and consumed meals. This will cost us 80,000 euros. This is a computer program with which we will monitor the cumulation. Otherwise, each school will simply find out from the children's allowance scale which class belongs to which student, for which we do not need any additional administration, for at least one reason, as I can explain: so far in schools it has been carried out by school advisory services and accountants, had to be set up by commissions, had to adopt a subsidy regulation at schools, had to decide on the basis of these regulations and had to obtain funds if they wanted to ensure it. Now all of this goes away because it's a simple finding that can be made on the basis of a children's allowance scale. The next time you say the current system is unfair. As far as I know, the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has concluded the Law on the Realisation of Rights from Public Funds and the establishment of a register group in which a more fair definition of the social situation, including the property situation, will be built up, which means that the basis will also be fairer. We will simply join this system and do not mean additional obligations. Even today, however, the law provides for each student at the annual level - including the one now being implemented - 3 euros per student, which means 285,000 euros that schools receive to keep this record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. Mr Kumer asked for a procedural debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to explain. I used 21% data. All this data and some qualitative findings I got online, I made a list from the Internet, and I thought because you have computers to watch websites when you're preparing for the meeting. So once again, I know it's not completely procedural, but I can't answer later.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u63	Thank you very much for admitting that this was not a procedural proposal. You are not alone, but it is a shame that we all use procedural debates together very often for content that is not intended to do so. But, well, it really doesn't bother the session that much. Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I think it's the way it is, the way it is, the way it is, the way it is, but it sure as hell isn't great. The arrangement could be excellent if students in primary school also had a free quality hot meal. This is not the case at this time, and I am also aware that it is difficult to provide funds for this part at this time. This does not mean that the regime, as it is, needs to be changed by a key argument that too much food ends up in the trash, and yet another hundred and twenty times that it was a pre-election candy, because I believe that the direction set by the previous government was good and positive. Why, in my opinion, such arrangements are good and why it is right that in the first step they have a free warm meal only for students, I would like to argue in some way. Certainly the system and, above all, the accessibility of primary schools and secondary schools is not the same. We actually have primary schools around every corner and accessibility is good. We can say she's equal to everyone. Unfortunately, we don't have high schools around every corner. Therefore, many students have to drive to major places in secondary schools or even stay in this place where they are in high school. Thus, such education is much more expensive for parents living in rural areas than primary schooling. At the same time, we must be aware that the social situation, or that, if I say so, the social situation of citizens and citizens in rural areas is almost generally much worse than in the case of larger cities. So if we look at it from the point of view of parents living in places where they are both primary and secondary schools, this problem is really irrelevant. However, given the rural factor, this is not the same. And I regret that we have recently had several such cases and more of these discussions, when in some ways we forget the countryside that is emptying us and so on because of various, perhaps even small details, which we sometimes ignore, which give real quality of life in the countryside. But that's a different subject. I certainly believe that there must be, and I am sure that the interest of the State is also due to the improvement of the education structure, so that as many children will finish high school as possible, if not already in college. I therefore believe that this step, which was taken in the previous term, is good and in the right direction. However, we should strive to be in line with the financial capabilities of the budget, etc. Gradually in the following years they also tried to provide a free hot meal for students in primary schools. According to our data and our calculations, this would require a circus of 16 million euros. This is, of course, an additional resource under the current regime. I say that our data and our calculations may not be the most accurate, but it is a series of sizes, and these certainly are not the means that we could not find in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mrs Silva Črnugelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Well, hello, Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues. Food, in particular this law has triggered a series of reactions, a series of good, positive comments as well. In other words, food is an area that we have different opinions about at different times in life, as well as when we look at the course of time in a different way. Of course, school food doctrines have changed over decades and centuries from food distribution, school kitchens, and I don't know what else. Unfortunately, sentimentally and romantically, we can find out that the times passed when grandparents accompanied us with a bun and a sandwich to kindergarten and elementary school, and when they also told us what we could do and how we could do it. Of course, each marriage tries to settle in its own way those things that we did not get in the family as some chips. I think that the present law is based on a series of analyses that have been done optimally in view of the situation in which we live. All I can say is that State Secretary Alenka Kovšća mentioned a number of analyses, unfortunately she forgot to mention the analysis made by the Faculty of Sport for a 10-year period of eating habits and the consequences of these eating habits on the motor and motor skills of primary and secondary school children, as well as finally on athletes and athletes. Unfortunately, these analyses are catastrophic, not only because perhaps the obesity of so much talk today would have a profound impact on this, but also ultimately the quality of this diet, diversity, variety, use of food and all that. So, I can only find that, in one period, we have saved various avitamins, rickets, scurvy, and I don't know what else, but unfortunately this new civilization has helped some of the long-lost diseases and other things come back. I will be happy to support the present law because I know that in some ways very much energy has been invested in this preparation, and because I think it is fairer than it has been before. Because I think that although he was unable to implement the principles of universality and solidarity, he did include in this segment both primary and secondary schools and that a little less than 250,000 those who will receive this diet are not a small number or quite large, it means a lot. The principle of solidarity is an important principle, and this law is trying to follow it to the greatest extent and as strongly as possible in the light of the situation in which we are. It bothers me, however, that our colleagues and colleagues cannot listen to certain arguments and that they constantly warn and speak some half-truths, perhaps even lies. For example, one such half-truth is that the proposal removes a free meal. That's not true. For all students and students, a meal of two thirds of a meal will be subsidised and 35.53% of students and students will have a free meal according to the calculations of the Ministry of Education and Sport, which is not limited. The state saves at the expense of the students. That's not true. That's not true. The state budget will not save anything. The intention of marriage is that those who can contribute to those who cannot. It is said that the principle of solidarity should be and should be, as far as possible, as fully incorporated into this law. It should be pointed out that, as payers, parents perform largely, and therefore the debate, which highlights students as a payer, is extremely demagogic and does not belong to this high assembly. The abolition of the student lunch subsidy will lead to the separation of students to poorer and richer - no. The separation of students to poorer and richer is in itself, depending on how and how this society works and how we all work; but if we have taken this as a value criterion, unfortunately, this is a value criterion. But we could divide them into more successful ones, into those who are gifted, into those who are good, who are one way or another - so that I don't burden you with those not-so-important things. It is not acceptable for justice to be abolished during a crisis. This is not true and this is not true because, according to the available mechanisms and all the possible instruments that are available - not least the databases and programs - we have tried to arrange as many things as possible. The pattern of behavior and responsibility, but in one way we are all responsible - we, you, and if we do something more on it like we did, say, grandparents and grandparents raised that we don't throw away every little bit in one way, but get it for someone else, and even for a little bird, it won't get so much and so many kilograms of food that isn't consumed. Thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Madam President. The distinguished Secretary of State, despite the fact that you are certainly a competent interlocutor, would certainly deserve the Minister's attention, as I believe that many explanations and arguments will be given in the debate, which could also lead to the thought that such a law, particularly what is crucial in this law, is reckless and also weak. The ruling coalition, however, can be said that today part of the mask fell off his face again, and soon the whole face will be seen -- all of those conjectures that you also quoted in the election campaign to voters and voters. I ask you, dear colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, why didn't you say in your electoral programme that you were going to go and change your student diet so dramatically?Oh, my God! There was no such thing, and there was a lot of other things, but obviously, if you put it out, at least one promise would be fulfilled, anything else you said you weren't. I would like to comment when the Secretary of State mentioned that, with such a law or solution, we do not cause some division into the rich, poor and less poor. Look, Madam Secretary of State, this is exactly the kind of thing that children share among themselves. One particular feature of the Slovenians is that poor people, those on the edge of the minimum, are so proud that they do not want to show it. How many people I know who are truly very socially disadvantaged, who are having a hard time living from month to month and will have difficulty receiving or asking for help because they are proud, I think, needlessly, but pride is in them. And that's exactly what's going to happen between kids. I'm sure that a lot of those who will be entitled to all the subsidies, just because of the situation like this, will reject this food, will not want to get it for free, because the target can be bait: here, you are the one who gets it all for free, and that's not. See, in itself, children will be differentiated in this way. This marriage itself is not, but the circumstances will lead to it, which is bad. Especially at a time when children are in puberty when they are in high school, because in primary school this is not so present, they are only so small. As far as discarded meals are concerned. My youngest son, who is now in high school, attended school at the largest high school institution in Slovenia, with over 3,000 pupils. The two years of experience have been extremely positive, both by the Director, the Director and by the children who were thrilled in this way. They have been preparing for this in the past and then with additional adaptations to provide food for so many children. School, in particular high school, is an extremely important educational institution. And here to talk about whether our budget will last or not is a less important topic. We must provide so much money, we must not "split" on our children, neither in high school nor in primary school. I agree with the fact that this law states that subsidised nutrition is also provided in primary schools. Let there be free nutrition in primary school and even in high school, as in young years the child is referred to as the habits that remain for the rest of his life. However, we all know that if we are not used to healthy eating, this is reflected throughout life and the consequences are from obesity to many cardiovascular diseases. However, the consequences of these diseases are significantly more costly for society - in later years, when they receive such or other medical care - than these few million for the state budget, so that they try to bring our children into a healthy diet. I agree that some children may also be somewhat rude, uneducated, but they do. With some planned approach that we can slowly bring to life - some of the solutions in the law are good - so that the food that remains can be spent usefully, for other purposes, is the right way. I am sure that if we are already in primary school and continue to raise children for a healthy lifestyle and a relationship to food, we will do the most for our children. And there must not be a crucial argument here whether it is the children of more wealthy parents or less wealthy parents, how to financially regulate it, charge parents or schools. I also agree with the criticism that this amount will be lower in municipalities that will be able to participate. I wonder if this is unconstitutional, because not all children have equal conditions in this way. If the mayor is inclined to do so, they will be able to eat children for free if they are not favored, they will eat more expensively. Look, it's not the right approach, it really isn't. On children to save, I think it is extreme, extreme irresponsibility and has long-term harmful consequences. I am surprised, see also over the information, and I also put the question to the ministry that we have faced the case of food in primary school with the expiry date. Look, I'm sure that's the reason for saving. That's unacceptable! Here the ministry has to play its role more up-to-date through controls, inspections, trainings, etc. Not to save on children in this way, because these amounts, even though they are millions of euros, are irrelevant compared to the costs that will arise. I speak for society again for society; for if health is then threatened and all the consequences of treatment resulting from incorrect diet are significantly greater. Therefore, such a law as it is is rightly criticized by both students and the professional public. It would be right that, as it is, you do not accept it, but I agree, you should give such a law and we will support it personally and the Slovenian Democratic Party, so that you can also find a way in primary school to get free food, because that is, of course, the only right thing and must be a long-term goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, Alenka Kovšca, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u70	Respectable. I was challenged directly, already in the introductory debates, the question was where Mr Minister is. You know that the agenda is being prepared just before the laborers, is on a business trip abroad and would certainly be happy to defend the proposed law and also stand behind it, but we will, of course, convey your contributions, statements and magnetogram to him so that he can get to know your views. I have to correct you, I think you misinterpreted my statement, I said that this marriage is not divided into poor, rich, and a little less poor, but to share them with a life and an ill-groomed society. That's what I said. But I did not say that there are none; there are, of course, richer, less richer and poorer. From this title, I cannot believe that we are fully responsible for healthy nutrition in the country, including those who can contribute and at the monthly level, this means for parents who contribute to the healthy development of their child, on the one hand, to give up two thirds of what the State gives him and that he is not willing to contribute even EUR 8 or 16 to his diet. I wouldn't take full responsibility with such ease to the government or the state. And all the time, the question is, where to find the reserves, where are the options? You know, your client had already introduced another law, which meant that there were two teachers in the classroom, another foreign language - there would be another estimate of how many million euros. We agree with your suggestions. Even in this case, it would be nice if we were such a rich country that we could be a little bit more scattered, even though I think this virtual sense of wealth has brought us here today where we are. I would like to point out that our mandate began with 1.6 billion additional commitments, which were conditional on reduced taxes from the former government and with additional rights and with a paid system, which is now also included in the country's debt. Speaking of reserves. I don't even know when we're counting this money with such unbearable ease; I'd rather tell the public that we have so many that we can continue and share them more. But when we count these numbers, let's imagine how we do it in our home budget. If it's a minus, it goes down, because otherwise it's impossible to survive. And we are in a situation where we must all be accountable to each other, whether we are responsible for such debates until our future generations, that even where it is and where it is possible to contribute, let us not say that we should contribute in this period so that we can overcome this economic situation. I can't really understand it myself. In this country, we're not on the plus side, we can't share what's too much. We can, of course, redistribute. I deeply agree that it could also be redistributed from military money, but from minus to minus, it is no longer possible to redistribute. We have made every effort to ensure that nutrition is a development project and that it remains the whole scope, because we also estimate that the entire amount of resources remains, but we have redistributed it according to our assessment more fairly, in a way that we give more to those who need it more. I don't know how to imagine organized countries differently, as if they're both thinking, but the country is all of us, by having a much larger share of the responsibility here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. Dear President, Madam Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The position of the DeSUS Group on the School Diet Act has been presented and said, or I can say what you know, even as you know, that the Democratic Party of Retired Persons is a social party that is and will advocate for all laws and laws relating to the healthy diet of our younger generation, i.e. the schooling youth. With regard to today's consideration of the School Diet Act, I could assess: finally, the time has come for this law to come to the table, which will in some way also repeal or annul discriminatory behaviour and treatment of school meals since the adoption of the School Diet Act for Students. Also at the time, the DeSUS Group voted in favour of this law and we believe that it was a good law to finance the school diet of students, but the problem and nutrition issue in primary schools were suppressed. It is likely that the ministry has received a lot of attacks, a lot of comments and suggestions from primary schools and developments in primary schools, some have also addressed municipalities and have repeatedly stressed that nutrition in primary schools is a very pressing problem and phenomenon, even since all families are not as materially good to finance the diet of their children in primary schools. It also happened several times that teachers had to draw some students out of a series of meals waiting to be distributed in primary schools because their parents had not settled or could not settle a monthly school meals. From this point of view, we consider the law to be very appropriate, necessary and necessary and receive all the support of the Desus Group. It is true that, in some solidarity and fairer way, it will reconcile this dilemma and the gap between the diet of the student and the diet of primary schools, but also for this adjustment, which relates to the nutrition and financing of the student diet, we believe that it is necessary - given that you have now observed the situation as it is and that these modifications are justified, even though you would want to remain as it is. One thing is already mentioned today - Article 16, which shows that 2/3 is provided by the State and 1/3 is the one that primary schools must provide either with sponsors, donors or with funding from municipalities. Whenever we talk about funding congregations, it is also right to say where the money is to be taken from the congregations. Otherwise, the municipalities have money for social programs, but these funds, if any, the congregation does not give them. So again, from the mayor to the mayor, it depends on how much interest he will have and how much of this subtle relationship he will have to finance school meals and how much he will spend through the municipal council and the budget of these funds. If this third is also dependent on donors, sponsors, then we can say that this may not be a problem in some very developed municipalities such as Ljubljana, etc., but that there is a bigger problem on the periphery, in those municipalities where the economy is very weak and there simply cannot get this money as easily as we might think. So this one-third, which falls on my parents or on the possibility of some additional funding from elementary schools, is very questionable to me. Otherwise, I believe that the instruments of the social system are so directed that, even after this system and after this law, it will be possible for those weakest children to receive subsidies in full, while the rest of them, of course, are slightly less. The law is absolutely necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. He won't discuss it. Mr. Luka Yuri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The fact that the argument in favour of the law is good also proves the debate so far. At a time when there are no arguments on how to try any proposal proposed by the coalition, to break it down, to hear a discussion about deleted, about Falcone, about other matters that "feed" anywhere, probably about the judges; it is strange that there is no "out" Family Code, but we still have time for that. We'll probably hear it three more times, but the order will be reversed. It's just some logically complex argumentation because you have some elements that feed everywhere, they feed everywhere, they feed everywhere, they feed the damages everywhere, and then you just put it like a pasha. Please, let's try to talk about this law and what it brings and what it takes, but not because we'll end up again in the debate that your party president was the biggest communist in the '70s, but I don't think it makes sense for us to discuss it and we'd rather focus on the subject of the law and I'll do it myself. It was said and throughout the debate attempts to suggest that this saves anything. That's not true. This law will not give the state budget - not the euro, not the cent anymore! Or he was saving, because he's not saving at all. This bill only distributes in a fairer and more solidarity the same amount of funds as it has been so far, no less and no more. Why did I say solidarity? And solidarity is the main point of this change! What does solidarity mean? Solidarity means that one who has more, or one who is in a better condition, helps one who has less, or one who is in a worse condition, so that society as a whole can have more. That's solidarity. The current diet of the student is completely reversed. In fact, when the state finances all the diocese food for everyone, it means that all citizens and citizens over taxes, i.e. those who have very little, also pay this food to those who have huge amounts. Also those who show millions of euros in income per year - their children in high school have free nutrition. And this country is financed through the budget, i.e. through taxes paid by, for example, the employees of that company, for which this person is most likely to have a decent million euros - or even less fairer. It doesn't matter right now. This system is currently not solidarity and is unfair. The one who has less is paying to support the one who has more. And that's an unfair system. It's just an unfair system. What is the objective behind the original law that introduced the diocese diet, and which is now to be improved? The aim is to ensure that food is of the highest quality to those who cannot afford it. And that's exactly what this amendment of this law does. Food remains, in addition it will be partly, and in two thirds, subsidised anyway, but completely free will only be given to those who really need such assistance. And then we're just going to be solidarity and then we're just going to provide a system with which those who have more, over -- we have to admit -- what a small contribution, we're going to pay for those who have less. And those who have more will have to pay for one third of their diet, and those who have less will not pay anything because the state will regulate and regulate it. This is the main purpose of this law. So we're not taking anything, but we're just redistributing what we already have in a fairer way. In addition, we are more realistic about the quality of this diet. Because I'm wondering what argument we can all all have together is that it's a sandwich or a burek with a hot or hot tea, but that's what's going on. Or is there a piece of bread and a half-cooked artificial pot roasted with mustard? This is also not a quality warm diet. Is that right? So let's try to be realistic, let's try to focus on some law that builds and complements - the forerunner said earlier, "We would accept, we would understand if this law were to upgrade and correct shortcomings." That's exactly what you do. Colleagues and colleagues from the opposition, many of you, those who sat here in the previous term, signed the law; the law, which was obviously so good in its original purpose, was confirmed with very broad support. So, you can consider it an honor to have today's reform and improve the good idea that you've proposed. However, if at that time the entire composition of the National Assembly was mature enough to identify and recognise a good proposal, be honest and correct, and acknowledge that what is being done today is also improving that your proposal can be even better now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the debate shows that we will polarise ourselves more than good in this bill in Parliament. In short, I would like to define my position in this direction: that I would actually expect all of us to support the proposal to continue the debate on this bill, even if there is something complementary to where something has changed, in principle, and in the basic direction, the law shows that it could be supported by all of us. I think it is, in fact, a fundamental set of problems that could be understood as health. That's basically what this law is designed to do. It is about the fact that the country, in various ways, works in various ways to ensure that children have, in fact, as far as possible from kindergarten to higher education by the State, the path and instruments that will ensure healthy life. A part of a healthy life is, of course, a healthy diet. Especially because we can have a very preventive effect on it, so that those results that have been shown by various research and that speak of poor health, overburden with kilograms, obesity, etc. will no longer be the subject of our discussions in future years. And because, unfortunately, it is not so that everyone can ensure this healthy diet at all times and in all life, it is right here to help with correction, so that health is accessible to all. I do not take this as a social problem; I take it as an adjustment, with which we help those who cannot provide a healthy diet in full, because it is also useful for social health in the end. It's not just about individual health, it's about social health. Even after this wage, which is repeatedly mentioned in the law, is not only about physical, somatic health, but also about the development of culture, the development of values, our relationship to what is fundamental to us; that is to say, to health and nutrition, which makes it possible or prevents diseases associated with wrong nutrition. So if we can't provide all the verticals, all the same ratings or the same support, from kindergarten, primary, high school and high school, then let's try to ensure, at least as much as possible, fair distribution. I don't see this marriage bringing any injustices, any social differences. We realized that these were real facts that we were trying to correct by law. The law is trying to correct what has already been caused by various social relations as some kind of injustice in society, and we now have the opportunity to at least partially correct it. But more than an assessment, I would ask myself, perhaps this will be demonstrated in the discussion. First of all, this Article 16. Do we really believe that the state must ensure everything? The State must ensure that the standard that is accessible to all in the country, while giving an opportunity, allows for a different definition of the individual environment to be determined by the means it allocates, for example, in school or in the standard of equipment, either in superstandard programmes or in social support. In fact, the environment must decide whether or not to do so. This is no longer an obligation of the State. This is what is an addition to what the state requires of us to ensure. And second. The question is, when students check and measure satisfaction with food, with food, with diet, how will we act - this is not seen in the explanation of this article - if they express dissatisfaction? If an external partner is to service this activity, the Director shall have a measure, and may conclude a contract. But when everything is going to happen inside the school from start to finish, there will be dissatisfaction, and there is no way that the school will act to take account of what will be done to students or students. [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich - he will not discuss it. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek - he will not debate. Mr. Miran Györek - will not discuss it. Matevž Frangež - no. Vito Rojej. Here's a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. I would not like to repeat too much of the opinions already made on the more equitable distribution of money, which the state can now provide for the purpose of the student diet. Perhaps you would like to touch on the opinions expressed here, which say that some municipalities, such as the municipality of Ljubljana, may contribute more easily to the payment of this food, as envisaged in Article 16. I doubt that this is the case because, on the basis of the current law on the financing of municipalities, the Municipality of Ljubljana receives, proportionally speaking, a much smaller share of the majority than in any other municipality. In short, she's damaged here, and it's hard to expect her to be able to find funds for these purposes. At the same time, what has been said is that the average wages in Ljubljana are higher than elsewhere, so it would be considered that this also makes a higher proportion of students who will not be socially at risk. In short, this share will not be as high as in any other municipalities, so they will probably be, we will pay the Ljubljana women and the Ljubljanaians more, proportionally, for this school diet than perhaps in other municipalities. Of course, it is likely that in the city’s congregations, more schoolchildren from other congregations are likely to be as generous as the smaller congregations where they pay, proportionally speaking, may not be as high. Thus, there will not be so many parents who should pay for this food, so that perhaps this solidarity, which will actually lead to some egalitarianism, will not be visible in the countryside, can be greater, as it may be due to stronger social cohesion in one way or another. As far as this is concerned, I think that all the arguments in favour of this law have already been well-founded and well-spoken. All the debaters, if I understand correctly, are taking it as a step towards the ultimate goal that will come in some brighter economic times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Rybič will not discuss it. Mr. Milan Chaddez. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary of State. At the outset, I can say that the existing arrangements we currently have are very good. It's mostly good for the students. But I'm saying from the point of view, we're not all from the city. But students also come from rural areas and have to get up for their journey to school first, on the road, rather than those who are from the cities. As mayor, I can also say that we are already spending a lot of money on primary school students, and that is also right, and I am very much in favour of this direction myself. However, when looking at primary schoolchildren and those who are a little bit more distant, let us make sure that they are brought to primary school and are in a very different position in this regard than students who drive to their school for much longer. I have two students myself, and I'm going to tell you one case that happened in one of the high schools. I have a lot of communication with my youth. That was last year when the student came for food. He got very little, but he wanted a little more. But he got the answer from the one who shared the food: "Jansha gave you only so much." I don't think that this attitude towards this work, to food, even on the part of those who share food, is right. We have also heard many words about the attitude of primary school students as well as about food. I want to confirm that the relationship to food is raised at home by parents. I am convinced that primary school and high school are not the ones who cultivate a relationship with food, which is up to us parents. I believe that sharing children with the rich, the poor and the less poor is irrelevant, because based on the material situation of children already in primary school and then in high school directing or referring to this is not useful, I am sure it is not productive either. But what I have heard from my colleague's discussion is that solidarity is the right one and even the main point, and I think it is completely wrong. That the one who has more gives the one who has less. Your Honor, whether it's an entrepreneur or someone who's self-employed, someone who has more employees who work hard all day even deserves more can't be compared to someone who does a compulsory job. And that he gives more to the one who works less. I'm sure this argument is completely flawed. I am also convinced that due to this interpretation of solidarity last year, more than 17,000 legal persons have closed their activities. And if we continue to work on the basis of solidarity, there will be more of these imprisoned legal persons. I am very much in contact with entrepreneurs, and there are many who are truly afraid of the current situation. I am also aware that two thirds of the food prices are subsidised and one third depends on the material situation. This is the wrong starting point. I am sure that the existing law should be upgraded, but upgraded in this direction, as it was set up, rather than deleting everything that the previous government has done. In this direction to evaluate that it is not good, and then to do something wrong again, which will need to be reintroduced, divided into those who are materially better and worse. The existing bill will be difficult to support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres won't discuss it. Mag. Branko Grimes? [[No, no, ……]] Marian Bezjak, will you discuss it? Here you go, Mr. Marjan Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Hello, Madam Secretary of State. Members and Members of Parliament. What we are discussing today - whether we give children food or not - I think we are doing injustice to people living in cities or living in rural areas. All people in Slovenia, citizens, citizens, have stomach or stomach, we are all as hungry. It is true that a four-member family with 3,000 euros can not survive here in Ljubljana, and a four-member family must survive with 220 euros. I cannot agree with the applicants at all to end the luncheon they received in the previous term. You know, people are in such a situation that they don't actually have any more bread. When I parked here in front of Parliament, a pretty well-dressed lady came to me, and she said to me, "Lord, you have the euro, because I have no bread. I have 300 euros in pension, and I can't even pay the bills." In fact, here you are for a few euros, if I may say, I am and there's a 'coffee' whether to give people or give children or not. Why don't we start reducing state bureaucracy? Why don't we start cutting standards, school standards, but in this form, we don't have 30 or 100 square meters of classrooms that aren't used, I don't know how big. Then how much does heating cost for schools like this? But here we are dealing with whether we give students food or not. I just talked to a couple of teachers about what's going on most of the time in elementary school. You know, a teacher or a principal alerts a student whose parents can't pay for a meal if he doesn't bring a payment certificate next time that he can't have lunch. Believe me, this is a very big deal. When Minister Lukšić and I talked about these things, he said to me, "Mr. Bezjak, I have an even worse case. It happened in Ljubljana that a student came to lunch and they gave him only bread and water." Ask yourself what kind of injustice you do to people, children, students. The stress that young children face when the whole future lies ahead of them. If I ask you who's willing to give up 100 euros for kids who have lunch in primary schools or students, you're probably all in your pockets. These things are worrying. In the previous term, there was hardly any balance in that students were also given lunches and we shriveled because they wanted to stop it again, which was well done, that the lunch was actually thrown into the basket, that the students were not going for lunch, etc. It's just a hoax. If you happen to happen to be one case, and you're working a whole universe of Slovenia, I don't know where this future is going. With this bill you're proposing, you want to take Slovenia 30, 50 years ago. This is not the future. The future is to watch what's today and what's tomorrow. Start looking at the future wisely, so that we can all live better together if we don't, that at least our children will be. In fact, any good father or any good mother gives everything for the child. So, believe me, any good mom or any good dad would also pay a kid lunch at primary school or give a student lunch, but they don't. You should be aware of that one time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Here today we have heard from the Secretary of State that a lot of snacks end up in the trash. Moreover, we have heard that a principal freely admitted that this warm school meal was being sold forward or resold. I really hope, Madam Secretary of State, that you have long since accused him of losing the director's job at this high school, first of all, and second of all, that he will be reached within the time limit of his right. My opinion is, as is the opinion of my colleagues in the opposition, that this law is a step backwards. Most of the arguments in this regard have already been presented in the position of her fellow Member, Alenka Jeraj. I think it would be good that these acquired rights, which are now enjoyed by Slovenian students, would not be cramped, but would be extended to primary school. I have a son myself in the second year of Ravna Gymnasium in Koroška. I talk a lot to the students, I talk a lot to the professors there. And look, at this school, at Ravne High there's not one of these reasons that you're saying here today in an argument that a free lunch should be abolished. Not one. The food doesn't end up in the trash. They don't have unhealthy diets at this high school. Students and parents are happy. So I really don't know where you've been covering this data that you're presenting here in the research. You have obviously covered such schools or such data as belong to you in this framework or in the argument of this proposed law. This action by the Government or this law, which will obviously also be adopted, will in particular strike people in the countryside further in the pocket. In the time of the government of Borut Pahor, unemployment in Koroška increased by 50%. More in some congregations. And now for this additional measure. In this context, I would like to draw attention to something else. That's for taking the students to school. We have a big problem in the countryside with this. Look, from Montenegro to Koroška to Muta, where there is a high school, it costs a monthly ticket for March with all the subsidies already EUR 188. Imagine what EUR 188 means for someone who earns 450 or 500 euros in Prevent, while the partner is unemployed. And here I see a very big problem that the congregations in Koroška or in the countryside alone cannot solve, so I would expect some effort, thoughtful, political effort, including by the government and the coalition, to solve this problem. Today, many times the syntagma of the pre-election candy was mentioned, as our government, our coalition or our parliamentary group, which proposed this law, which in most cases was very warmly welcomed in Slovenia, as it shared pre-election candy in 2008. I propose: put the law you have offered today into consideration just before the national elections; we will see what people, the voters, will say about this law. With this law, you will give Slovenian citizens a nice glass of diapers. And if this were to happen in 2012, before the national elections, we could compare what they prefer, diapers or pre-election candy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we have before us one important law in the field of education. Although it is a meeting of the Government on Thursdays, I think that, given the importance of the matter under consideration and covering two spheres, both primary and secondary, there should be a Minister for Education, Dr Lukšič. I think that in the Government, because they do not deal with any anti-crisis issues and propose to deal with any anti-crisis laws, there are not so many and so important issues in the field of education, such as this session, in which we have a law that affects the rights that we have adopted in the previous term by voting smoothly, at the communication level, and at the verbal level we have very difficult to adopt. If I recall correctly, then the vast majority of the current members of the coalition parties verbally expressed very much opposition to this law, which is now in force, to the Law on Diagnostic Nutrition. Despite the fact that none of those Members had the power to press the voice "against" then. The law adopted at the beginning of 2008 can be said to have experienced these verbal attacks, not the voting ones, during that extension of the pre-election period. At that time, however, a paradigm, a concept, a motto, that said that Slovenia could be better guided. At that time, it has been said many times that Slovenia can lead better. Today we have actually before us the realization of this paradigm. Slovenia, if it is possible to lead better, you have received elections on the basis of this paradigm, then you would expect this law to improve in order to add further improvements to the Law on Diagnostic Nutrition. On the basis of this paradigm, based on the paradigm that Slovenia can be guided, the better happened minus 30%. It is said that a subsidy for an important part of students, families who have pupils in secondary schools will fall by 30%. It's the realization of the paradigm. It is obvious that we are witnessing in fact a kind of modernisation of the systems that are happening to us. The Prime Minister of the Government said that when he became Prime Minister of the Government, when he took over this function and formed his team, certain systems would be modernised. And the school system is apparently already up-to-date with 30% subsidies. I do not object to the fact that primary school nutrition is also being regulated, in fact I support it. I am sure that this bill would also be proposed if we were to run this government now, but unfortunately, it is not. However, we would never propose a measure to reduce subsidisation or free diocese diet. I think the government deserves NMS on this part of this proposal if I say so in school. It does not meet minimum standards in fulfilling its promises. We also witnessed yesterday in the reply of the President of the Government, and he also deserved NMS there because he could not answer a simple question. It is clear that for a social democratic government, in this social democratic government, a strong majority of social democracy has the potential to be typical of this government, desocialisation. Thus, the adoption of measures which interfere with the acquired rights of social categories. That's typical. This is in the field of school nutrition, this is now also happening in some other matters and not taking into account the social partners, even the unions that actually represent the most numerous group of the lowest categories, if we look at the educational and wage workers, are not taken into account in these procedures, but are actually passing. In preparing this law, we have come to the point where the category of the law, which was primarily intended, is opposed to this kind of rationalisation, I think, by 20 or 25 thousand students' signatures, to such a reduction in the right to a warm meal subsidy. I don't think there's really any reasonable basis for such a decision. Even a government that shares and actually wants to do what is right could not afford such measures. And this is clearly in conflict with all the predictions and also with the coalition treaty that this government has established. It is interesting, however, that there is a great deal of emphasis in this area on bureaucratic procedures. There is a great deal of emphasis on how this process will be carried out, how commissions, forms, complaints, incomplete data, etc. will be formed. For this segment, this government is actually willing to invest almost as much as it will actually save. It follows from this law, therefore, that instead of getting the aid and the funds that the State provides for the student diet, those to whom the diametric diet belongs, we will distribute part of this money to those who fill out the forms, censor matters, check data and bring only additional burdens into the school system. It will be interesting how we will react in cases - if this law is adopted - if one of those who owe or will be obliged to pay a surcharge if it does not. If he doesn't pay that extra. What action will follow from this? Under this law, will it be prohibited to use the 70.80% of the subsidised diet if the remaining 20.30% that it should pay is not paid? How will these procedures proceed? What will be the sanctions? What measures are you actually going to take against children, against students if their parents don't? And it is likely that these recoverys, accounting, conversions will also be carried out by a certain, redefined group of people in school institutions, will work in courts, will be returned by expatriators, etc. I think it's much more rational for things to debirocraticize themselves, to be simple on the basis of status. So we have this generally solved in the students. There's no question about buying, like, food vouchers, what status does a student have, but it gets to the status. And that's why we've suggested that students get this into their status. If you're a student, you belong to this and that, you don't have to do exactly any bureaucratic procedures that will be necessary in this case. In fact, I think other things are extremely controversial. I don't think it's appropriate for two systems to be involved. To mix a mandatory system, it's a primary school system, and a system that's optional. The secondary school is a choice, once again, in the Republic of Slovenia. So you decide to go to high school, and it would be appropriate for these things to be arranged that way. What bothers me the most about this matter, however, is that no expert analysis is actually involved in this decision. Ma'am, she's not attached. You have informed us that we are adopting and proposing a law in the previous term, which is, in fact, proposed on the ground. Indeed, there were few of these grounds because this law was introduced for the first time in Slovenia, but we did some comparative analyses, and we used the arguments that were used and adopted in some studies in the Republic of Slovenia, particularly in the area of healthy nutrition, etc. Here were some studies that said that the diocese population was the one who actually had the least-ordered standards of eating, in fact had none, apart from that half-past, compulsory, at the time of teaching, other compulsory matters were not prepared, arranged. Despite the fact that the diatric population is the only one with a prescribed and mandatory schedule. Students choose, they go to classes, they don't go, they go to practice, they don't go, while students have this obligation. And students usually also have an 8, 10-hour school worker, because they have so many hours and compulsory or optional content. And high school is not in every rural place, so they spend a lot of time on transportation to school and transport home. And that's why it doesn't make sense that this bureaucratic way of interfering with this diabolical diet. I think it should be upgraded in particular. As far as primary schools are concerned, I think this measure is necessary, I think it is necessary to do so. In fact, it may be necessary to add breakfasts to elementary school, if I have understood Mrs Potrate correctly, because this is one of the fundamental deficits, the fundamental flaws that burden the primary school population. Some eat breakfast, others don't, and that's a key meal. And it's probably the same problem in this high school population. I would expect that the amendment of the Law on Student Nutrition and the Law on School Diet, in general, would be complemented by this expert opinion and this professional proposal also by this work in order to add breakfast. I am surprised that the Government has decided on this measure, because this year we have spent a lot of resources on small effects, debt is a huge, ongoing debt, so that we also have a large budget deficit and we have an increased public debt. I am sure that these huge funds, which we have spent this year and some other time on the functioning of this country's subsystems, could be used more rationally, better and also by not interfering with primary school, but in this part positively, especially in this student diet, because we are introducing some other things that are probably not good and will not bring good results. I'm sure this marriage is not appropriate in the work that makes the diatrical diet worse. If the Government of the Republic of Slovenia believes that this part of education or nutrition in education needs to be regulated more comprehensively and better, I would suggest that, while you can regulate it with the new law, there is no problem, but that those good elements of the law on diet are used and transposed fully into the new law. I think that this would be perfectly normal and also acceptable, and then the law would be further elaborated in the field of diastolic nutrition with those elements that are considered necessary by the government. And I'd settle for this part that the government intended to settle. Access to the school food law is similar to the family code. The exact same concept: when we try to correct or deform a good thing with a bad measure. Here with the worsening of the student diet and there with some extra rights of same-sex partners in the adoption of children. The exact same concept, only in another area. And then you pack it up under a whole, wider form. I think that additional resources should be sought for education. If children are our greatest wealth, if the family is our primary cell that raises children, preparing them for life, then there is probably no need for us to take those rights that they have to our greatest wealth and families. I do not think that the EUR 500 contribution of the Republic of Slovenia to a student per year is an excessive cost incurred by the Republic of Slovenia by creating good conditions. However, as has already been said in my colleagues' debate, there are many decisions in this mandate that have not been taken or that have been adopted and have caused great costs. In those areas where the Government is not effective, it would be right to make certain rationalisations and improvements. There must be a lot of work to be done on reform measures. Much needs to be done on the actions of the exit strategy, both on the long-term and on the ongoing measures, but we do not have these on the table. But there are actually things coming to the table that polarize. Things are coming that are causing political problems and things are coming to the table, which are also causing problems between citizens and the people of this country. I think that this law in the part where it improves standards in secondary education, in secondary education, is one that makes matters significantly worse. I think that the Government is responsible for such a procedure and should not even afford such solutions. No matter what happens to this law after tomorrow's vote, I propose, in any case, either that you prepare a new text of the law or that you ensure an appropriate voting majority, and that you adopt this law, also in this part, as regards the reduction of rights. Above all, I propose that laws debirocratise, that we slowly avoid forms, forms and similar matters. In the previous mandate, we have been successful in the area of demobilization and removal of administrative barriers. In this mandate, we receive laws at the table, which in this area greatly weaken the picture. There is virtually no law that does not have the creation of a new institution or a set of new forms that need to be fulfilled in order for something to happen. There are no more automatic processes when anything could have been done with some minimal costs, but it is only trying to make things formal, very formal, in a way that is not appropriate for the 21st century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Alenka Kovšca has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Chairman. Your Honor! I'm sorry, but I'm gonna have to reexplain some things that have already been explained. I'd like to apologize again to Dr. Luksic, our minister. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u89	Wait a minute! Mr. Tanko, this is an apology from Mr. Luksic. Please listen, because it's already been given, but you weren't in the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Kovsca.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u90	Dr. Lukšič is not at the government's meeting, but he's abroad. And I am firmly convinced that this law is still important to him and that with all the solutions here it is also worth defending. However, since we have no influence on the agenda and on the allocation of agenda items, it has happened that I have to defend it myself. With regard to the suggestions and concerns you've had. Something is also related to your final work, this is the question of administration. I have already explained the costs that arise from this and are almost irrelevant in relation to the implementation of the law, for the first time, because we give 3 euros to the student already in one way or another to every school for the administration, according to your proposal for a law, and for the second time, because we have invested only so far in the preparation of a computer program for the registration of meals amounting to EUR 80 000. The third point I would like to explain is that the audit report has committed us to establishing records for the use of state money. Some schools didn't even have one. And that's part of where it needs to be clear who's ordering lunch, who's coming for lunch, and who doesn't order lunch. I think it's also a responsible attitude towards the state. True, this means a little more administration, but at the same time it means that we may still save these 2 million 155 thousand euro, as much as the lowest estimate of rejection is because these things are not regulated. You mentioned and also suggested in the discussion that from the point of view, because students are voluntarily in high school or choose their own program, I must say that the largest possible majority of pupils are involved in practically the entire generation in high school, in which they are able to participate. But just the argument that you used because primary school is compulsory, it would be so much more expected that there would be a free meal in primary school, because high school is a choice. And I have to say, I also welcomed the personal law that you proposed and which was adopted to introduce diet to regulate the nutrition of students in secondary schools. I don't think there's a dilemma in this between us. But we can end the discussion like you do, that means minus 30% for students, but at the same time it means plus 60% for primary school students. It's a matter of playing with numbers. In reality, though, the matter is so that everyone would probably want us to live in a society where it is possible to spend limitlessly, where it is possible to give even more to those who have. This law is no different than to burden parents for €6,9 or €16. They don't give students. They are burdened with parents who can make their incomes available, allowing for some other priorities in the country within the budget, which is already already in the minus anyway, to be realized. However, we can agree, and I will be the first to sign that this is also at the expense of the military's investments, as proposed by your Member. One of your Members also said that it is possible to "supply" on technical equipment of schools, such as some laptops, of course, we can go back to the board and chalk, and we will have a school, as you would expect. I don't think those are parameters. The parameter is whether in this country some things can be dealt with fairly and more socially. That was a parameter for us. And we believe that this law brings added value and quality, including to the current economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. He won't discuss it. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u92	Thank you for saying that again. Some things need to be further clarified or explained to my fellow Members, who obviously did not understand some things as we said. Once again, in the SDS Group, we do not have any problems with the primary school subsidy. And we have also said that we would have done the same if our government were still in existence and we would have implemented free nutrition in primary schools in due course. A number of you have come to realize that we don't want to give this to elementary school kids right now. As we say, and all our Members have talked about it, they would have done the same for primary school, but it does not seem right for us to do so at the expense of the students. We made that clear. I probably wouldn't just give $0.50 for lunch, but I'd give you a total of €0.80, which is probably €6, which those parents are going to get, and we know how much the bet is or how much it costs. And now a few things that were exposed. You said here that as a rule, Article 4 is really talking about how normally the snack is warm. This usually means three times a month and seventeen times not. This is not usually any criterion you can measure. As a rule, it is not mandatory several times, and therefore we can rightly doubt that this will be done as it should be. The same is true in Article 5. The Director or Director may appoint a food group. It's easy, but it doesn't have to be. Let me remind you, you may have already forgotten, in the ZOFVI law we had to organize meals in secondary schools, but of course no one is, or very rarely, because it was not mandatory. Because if something is possible, it's not mandatory and it's done or it's not. And if the school has a food group, the composition shall be determined. If the principal doesn't want her, he won't name her, he won't. So don't say that this is absolutely going to happen. Article 11 is very acceptable to us. Meals not taken may be for humanitarian purposes or for other students. But even if we don't write it in the law, most of the schools work, at least according to our data. If anyone wants another meal, they can have it if the meal is left. And it's not a science, and every normal principal is going to organize a job at his school like that. The secretary of state said you were monitoring a school. It would be very important to know who this school was. Was she in Ljubljana? The time in which you measured how and what is put into waste. From 126 schools, this may not be a very representative sample of one school. If this can be monitored on one level, it could be done in several schools, perhaps in different parts of Slovenia, but it would be possible to have a clearer picture. In addition, we have a whole bunch of schools and a bunch of managers who praised the issue, Celje Gymnasium, mentioned the Ravnia School in Koroškem, Trbovlje Gymnasium, Ptuj High School Centre, Jože Plečnik Gymnasium in Ljubljana. All of them complimented you and said that there was no problem that the matter was going well. But you don't mention these. You are simply mentioning some officials who have already seen as a first problem that you need to organize and do anything when we adopted the law in the previous term. And now you're saying there's gonna be less red tape and it's gonna get easier. Look, in Articles 19 to 25 we're talking about the process of what's going to happen, what's not at this point is the diacon diet. They'll have to give their parents the part first. Then they'll check the school's role. Additional subsidies shall be fixed by the Director with a decision. The decision must be issued within 30 days, then the applicant has the right to complain. The decision must have an introduction, a statement, an explanation, a legal study, a complaint. When this comes in seven days ago, send it back. Under this law, they are served by mail, with a simple mail. How do we know if it's a regular mail shipment, you can't set a deadline of eight days, and so on, because you can't prove it if it's not recommended. But there's a bigger problem here. Look, 85,000 students have this moment that has a subsidized diet. Thirty thousand students will not have food stamps because they will still be fully subsidised. Twenty thousand will be awarded the tickets for 16 euros, 35,000 for 8 euros. We know how much the ticket costs, and that's what we need to send if we want the data to be hidden. However, if they distribute in the ranking class, as they do in primary schools, then it is not again that we have secured the grantor, it will be clear: the one who will not receive the bill is subsidised. It's not some kind of bad science. And then the parents for these 8 euros they're going to have to pay, they're going to pay a commission of 1 euro. Probably, if we say no postage, okay, but I think it will be, because it will probably have to be sent home, if we want to provide some data security and so on, then mail should be added to it. And that's why I asked the minister what the data on the non-payers are, how much there is in the primary school of the non-payers, what happens to them, how much execution costs, and then court proceedings, and finally how much of these debts are written off. We know that a lot of them are written off, both in kindergartens and in schools. And that means we all end up paying them, just so we don't have to have lawyers and a thousand papers to send up and down. Therefore, it would be appropriate to receive these answers. And I'm going to give them to the minister again, and I'm asking you to share this with us. You can see for yourself that even less food would be thrown away by a better organisation. That's why we should focus our efforts on getting these things sorted out. It's to be arranged. There's always a problem in control. If control is bad, then things don't happen the way we imagined them. I'm not saying that the marriage was perfect and that everything should have worked 100%. Of course not, for only when the law is implemented can it see what it has brought and what else needs to be improved or supplemented. And neither of us said that the care for healthy nutrition is being transferred to the country alone. Far from it. Many actions are being carried out and many things are being done to educate the population. But it is one part that we have made in our commitment, in our resolutions on food policy and so on, that the country will also take care of it. So we have to do something ourselves. And you yourself gave a comparison of how we save in the domestic budget. It's true if there's no money, we don't buy a computer, we say it's gonna be a good one year old, or a car. That's not how you do things. You raise money for computers, cars, I don't know what, but it's probably not a parliamentary and government driving fleet, but someone else who's so bad that we need it. We have had some mathematical matters, it is said that one who has very little will also contribute to one who has much. Usually, those who have a lot of taxes pay substantially more. This means that one part pays more than one who has little to eat his child, one who has little and more to add to it. That's all logic. We support the introduction of free nutrition in primary schools as well, and we ask you once again to provide us with data and to get everything we asked not to carry the problem of default to secondary schools and to have a whole bunch of problems again and to require parents who do not have to pay for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. At the outset, in my presentation of the position of the Group of Social Democrats, I made one minor mistake when I said that this law on diocese diet from the previous mandate had been drafted by the then government. In fact, it was prepared by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, with the first-signed Jozet Tank. This little slip-up seemed so important to my colleague Tank that he abused the Rules of Procedure and the Universal Slovenia that he was the one who was the first to be signed under this law. In fact, there is no difference or difference. With only one parliamentary government party signed, they wanted to stress in particular that this is their project, that they are bringing students and students this and that benefit just before the elections. From this intervention, my colleague Tank sees even more so that it was an explicit pre-election move. It wasn't that small. Even now, we are talking about the phrase used, about the pre-election candy, which was quite large and also financially extensive. And all these things had to be provided by the government of Borut Pahor, who was in the midst of the worst economic and financial crisis since World War II. So let's say the previous government of Janez Janša, when it proposed and supported this parliamentary law, failed to provide funds in the budgets for the necessary infrastructure for food distribution, for kitchens, etc. Even less, of course, the previous government has been thinking about what it will be after the end of their mandate, who will have to provide all of this. Let me say again, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, that we do not abolish anything. An additional 100,000 pupils in primary schools will have the right to a subsidised diet. 90,000 students and students will receive a free meal. So we're not taking anything. The €40 million needed for the implementation of this law remains. In the opposition today, you referred to students' signatures and the alleged absence of social dialogue. I am interested in what happened to you when you supported the government proposal, the real government proposal of the then government and the students were deprived of their right to participate in sacred secondary schools. Back then, you didn't need students for the Demagogos show. The Ministry's action is socially fair. A member of your party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, recently addressed to Minister Igor Luksic a question in which he asked the Minister for an answer to what the Ministry would do to alleviate the plight of parents who are unable to pay their primary school fees anymore. This proposal, which we are considering today, is completely following the concerns of your Member. Unfortunately, once again, demagogicism is over when you advise us to take our weapons, the patriots, and I don't know where else. But once these patriots are gone, too. The proposals tabled today by the SDS Group at today's meeting are actually being implemented by the Government. The government is already doing this today. Let's see. In her opening remarks, Mrs Jerajev, a member of the SDS, proposed to the minister that he should introduce milk into schools and introduce greater access to fruit or apples. You have probably overlooked that the Ministry of Igor Luksic or this government has provided almost EUR 600,000 for the fruit scheme. However, you may have overlooked or even forgotten that you had interrupted the previous term. This project was launched in the mandate of one of our previous coalitions, when we were in power from 2000 to 2004. That's when the Apple for Health project was launched. The government of Janez Janša did not continue this project during the period 2004-2008, nor did it apply for a call for European funds. The government of Borut Pahor and the portfolio led by Dr Igor Lukšič provided 600 000 euros for this project, part of the European funds and part of the state budget for the Apple project. This would refresh the memory a little bit for my colleagues and colleagues on the other side, who apparently forget some of the parties very quickly. As it is said, this proposal does not remove anything, this proposal is more just and socially oriented. I don't know why the director of a successful Slovenian company would get free food for his children, but if he has, I don't know, thousands of euros in net personal income. The law is socially oriented, the law is fairer, an additional 100,000 pupils in primary schools will have the right to a subsidised diet and, as it is said, 90,000 students, pupils, students and students will have free lunch in schools. The parliamentary group of Social Democrats will be happy to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Does Mrs. Secretary of State want to discuss it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your comments, your suggestions, your opinions, which will no doubt also give any further thought to any possible solution. However, it seems that the basis behind which we have decided to propose a new law is the right one, since it could be said that the majority of Members supported the solutions and that by this proposal we are actually allowing all students in vertical, students, access to healthy school meals, also taking into account the guidelines on healthy nutrition. We will unify the organisation of school meals in primary and secondary schools, students and students from socially less stimulating environments, we will provide a cheaper and free meal, allowing secondary schools to offer students a meal that is not necessarily a warm meal, but a healthy meal. We will direct and commit students to more responsible food management, improve control over intentional and purposeless spending and establish transparent use of public resources and, of course, also reduce administration, although some in the discussion did not agree, in primary schools, because there are 160,000 pupils and, definitely, in the secondary schools, the audit controls should be put in place. The costs to be charged to an individual student will be added to the costs already charged by schools on a regular basis by the costs incurred as a result of schooling. In some discussions as to whether or not the students were involved in the discussions, I must say that they were always coordinated with them by the text of the law, that we were also based on their conclusions and assessments and analyses prepared by the diocese community. Thus we could not say that we did not establish social relations and cooperation. On the other hand, it seems that the only way for social cooperation is to achieve everything. I have always imagined that social dialogue creates a relationship between equal partners in which arguments prevail, not power. There are also 22,000 signatures that are really a quarter of the students, but I must say that at the same time students and parents of primary schools welcome and support the adoption of this law. It would be so hard to say which side the majority opinion is on. We believe that our proposal is social, sustainable, fair and responsible, also responsible for the future of the children to whom it is intended. He is absolved because he takes into account the circumstances that he is responsible for, because the messages to young people are also politically and developmentally justified, just because they divide the burden between those who can bear it and social ones, because he protects more those who need it more. I believe that is what most of us think and that the law will receive support for the procedure in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u97	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask if anyone wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. Check-in is on. We're starting a debate. Each of the panellists has 5 minutes. Mr. Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u98	Nicely greeted! As a long-standing teacher, I am very aware of the importance of the nutrition of school-binding children, those who are compulsory and those who continue education in secondary education. I also have experience because we have always prepared food very quality, according to Hasap, and to the great satisfaction of children as well as parents, but this education is very hard and needs to be insisted, because we know that sandwiches and fries are still the food that draws the child most. The bill that we are discussing today, which has been extremely demagogic, certainly improves this food chain from kindergarten, preschool education to student years. I'm sure there's a whole bunch of families here that this country's subsidy on their child's diet means almost nothing to them. However, we are not dealing with those who are wealthy enough to have a sufficiently high standard and could fully pay for food, not only in the share proposed here. It is true that these are also subsidised, but in a small proportion, because it would be inappropriate for a Member's child - although my children are already older - to receive a Member's child, who receives three thousand euros and more, to receive subsidised food and those who really need and value food, but most often do not get these goods. I think that the standard that is also to be taken into account, and when we talk about the euro or two, we also need to think about what the costs of students and others are, say, by telephone, by paying a subscription to a mobile phone, where it goes to as many as tens of euros in the case of many, including the socially endangered. What is the meaning of cigarettes in the hands of young people and young men when you walk the street and each other, the third also smokes? Isn't that the cost of family? And I could count it. However, the Social Democrats must have some attitude towards those who need help. And there are a lot of these mechanisms in this society. I am immediately for these funds to be distributed among those who really need help to be distributed among families that have children in primary school and that they also receive adequate nutrition. And it can't happen in any way - but I don't have that experience to say any principal, and if you don't pay for lunch, you won't have lunch. This does not happen to the smart environment, so we also have counsellors at school, and so on, to determine in due time whether it is really not possible to pay for food or if there is something else in the back. The "something else" in these families can be many things, from alcoholism, family misunderstandings, and other things; this must also be taken into account. When we talk about helping school-bound children, there are other things, activities, natural, cultural. Here is the problem of the school in nature and something else where there is also a need for subsidy and in the local community we also devote a lot of money to such activities. I will support the proposal of this School Diet Act, because I think it is absolutely necessary and that, as here in this Chamber, we are not all the same, and not all families are equally burdened, not as poor or as rich in the external environment. I even congratulate the Ministry on starting this procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u99	Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u100	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! When I listened to today’s five - hour debate or four - hour debate so far, we still have an hour at our disposal to find that in fact only one parliamentary group strongly opposes this law. And this is the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which, in its previous mandate, proposed the Law on Diagnostic Diet, which was a kind of pre-election law. It is logical that the coalition supports the law, prepared by our government, our Ministry of Education. The Slovenian National Party also supports the law, the Slovenian People's Party has concerns, it is said that only one party in Parliament does not explicitly support this law. I would like to reiterate once again that this law regulates school nutrition more comprehensively and more fairly in secondary schools and extends this right to primary schoolchildren. Look, I'll tell you again; an additional 100,000 elementary school students are entitled to a subsidized school diet, and 90 000 students and students will receive a free school meal. I don't know why so much opposition to this more social and fairer regulation, because, under the previous law, free lunches were also justified by the children of parents from the highest income classes who received €30,000, €50,000, €100,000 and more per year. These too were entitled to free lunch, including the children of these parents. And I think you're the ones who are in these top income classes who can really afford and pay lunches for their kids. I repeat, this law is more comprehensive and fairer in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u101	Mr. Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Well, we are now witnessing the introduction of a police state in Slovenia. This law further seeks the direction of decomposition. Look at you discussing such a demagogue, especially Mr Bevk. The director, who has 50,000 euros in salary, also has his child free lunch, school, high school, college. It's all the same as the one that makes maybe 500 or 600 euros. Responsibility for education, responsibility for healthy nutrition must be the responsibility of society. I agree, parents, that every parent should try to ensure that the child has a healthy diet, that he will have the opportunity to educate himself, but not every parent is prepared for such or other reasons in this direction to raise his or her child. It is the social responsibility that must be ensured in this way. Why do you deceive us to oppose the proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party that food should also be subsidised in primary school? That's not true. We advocate to introduce free nutrition also in primary schools, that is our point. We will see how serious you are when amendments are being tabled in the second reading. We will certainly invest such that in high school free warm food is introduced also below. Here is the exclusive reason for the educational moment for young people in secondary schools to be able to mention healthy nutrition. Here, financially, upward-down, it doesn't matter at all, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter for a long time, I've said it over and over again, or in the debate, rather, society will get more out of a healthy diet in a young age, and at a further age when it has fewer health problems, society will in fact gain more in this way than it does now, if it is guaranteed. Savings, where we could obtain these funds that are here, were mentioned today by the coalition, that we did not mention deleted, I will confirm, we will say that we will say this, that the deleted will certainly go way beyond that amount several times. Then also at school, the secretary of state tried to explain in some way that, with this discussion that a colleague had previously had, we somehow do not support the fact that schools are equipped with new equipment. Of course we support, Madam Secretary of State, but the way in which three million euros are spent because they have remained on the school ministry's post to make sure that these funds are spent on their necks and noses, which is not what schools would probably deserve. They didn't get new computers, new equipment, the schools they needed the most, we know what it's like. We have money, and now let's just look for all the ways to spend it, because next year we'll get less. You know, that's the philosophy of all these budget consumers. Abuse. Now that he's trying to share social, one or the other. As far as it is now, because of the poor social policy that our country has been implementing for a long time, due to the lack of records, the lack of links between information systems cannot in fact be uniformly determined which family is properly situated, which one is not. How much is abuse? Take a look around, parents who drive expensive cars with a lot of property pay minimum amounts for children. And we certainly haven't arranged this system here as a society. And here this social justice has long fallen in Slovenia. This law is again trying, given the economic situation of the parent, who will be properly or incorrectly identified, it is not or must not be the purpose of this law. Let us make sure that young people are in the most vulnerable years, and this is secondary school, and so is primary school, but in the middle of this practice is certainly due mainly to the way of life of society, youth resistance and all that it is then. And if a child has a healthy diet there, it will have a long - term positive impact on society. And that must be the point of such an idea that we have introduced in the previous term. We support, once again, that this is also guaranteed in primary schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u103	Ma'am mag. Spending, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, because I still have some memory, and it would be nice if those Members who are now providing support for free school meals in primary school would say this with support for the proposed law that was introduced in the previous term, or with the support of amendments that spoke of increasing funds for school nutrition or for healthy nutrition. In the previous term, I have often made proposals for the provision of integrated food and organic food in primary schools, since the lowest price is usually crucial in the procurement of raw materials for food. But well, these are other things, about the apple for health has already been spoken by my colleague just Bevk. The greatest advantage of this proposed law is for me the integrity of school diet regulation, and this is for all schoolchildren in compulsory primary and secondary school to provide two-thirds of the healthy meal subsidy. Article 4 continues to talk about a warm meal, usually a warm meal in high school, so that nothing is over and that is really misleading. Even worse than misleading and playing with the emotions of the socially disadvantaged is talking about it, because I am glad that Mr Miro Petek has come now to talk about the unemployed and those with the lowest incomes, how they will be deprived. It is not true, because they will have the full opportunity to receive a subsidised meal because this meal is linked to the family’s income position. And you can swing as much as you want, big demagogy is what you do, just like demagogy is when you say that it didn't ask others. See, in a public radio show, the headmaster of the Celje elementary school said that more than 40% or 40% of parents can no longer pay the cost of lunch, they can no longer pay the cost of school in nature and in many ways. How, then, can it be argued that it is a good solution for those who can contribute not to make a small contribution to the fact that this benefit of a free meal can also be passed on to a compulsory primary school. Mr. Grill, talking about what should all be free of charge, of course it's right that the school is free. Social Democrats advocate such a free primary school, free secondary school and free high school, because knowledge is a breakthrough for our society. And it would be good if we were such a wealthy society that we could contribute something else and reduce any other costs, but we have as much as we have. And that needs to be dealt with wisely and fairly. By the way, I know that the SDS has declared itself a party who does not make mistakes and who has said that we live in the Golden Age. All of this I believe that an apology could have been made for the solutions they are, but none of the things are so perfect that they could not be improved. And I consider the School Diet Act to be the law that improves opportunities just because it makes a difference between those who can and those who can't. In one part, and in the majority, there is still a subsidized meal. They offer four out of five meals in elementary school. And also the percentage of those who get breakfast is, I think, about 14%, I don't know what the percentage is now, but we've decided to have a healthy meal that's closer to lunch than any other meal. And if so, then the local community can make a different decision. In Maribor, look, we're subsidizing more now. And it is also true that there is greater autonomy and greater influence in schools and in local communities, because we are for bringing decisions closer to people.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u105	Mr. Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. The starting point of this law is a healthy diet for our children. And in the debate that we have been able to hear today, in fact, it is hard to believe what he hears, especially those allegations that have been made very loudly on the right hand side of the hall today, and that is to end the diocese's diet. Such addresses can also be found on some online media accompanying today's debate in the National Assembly. Anyone who has looked at this law at least roughly sees that the situation is completely different. So far, on the basis of the current regulation, 84,000 students have been given a free hot meal, including another 20,000 students who have so far received full subsidies for lunch in primary schools, a total of 100,000 students and students. The figures that will be due to this law clearly show that the right to a free meal will have 60,000, three times more, primary school students and 30,000 pupils. Together, if we look at it, we've already increased this number to 89,000. At the same time, a partial subsidy will be granted to an additional 21,000 and a general subsidy totalling 148 thousand pupils and pupils. In your system, which you are still vehemently advocating today, 120 thousand of these children remain outside any state participation system while the state provides them with a warm meal. Of course, when it comes to school meals, we cannot pass on the question that it is not enough to give children a warm meal, but that we must be very, very interested in what food we provide them in this way. Scientifically proven fact is that when the disease occurs, it is due to multiple factors. One of the main questions is what do we put in our bodies with food? Just a while ago, I received an e-mail from a concerned citizen of vegetarian eating habits, who pointed out that in the primary school where her son goes, there is no way that she could agree to provide her son with a vegetarian diet. More. A week ago, in one of the Slovenian weeks, we were able to read a shocking and shocking story that some girls at a primary school, after I researched it was a primary school in Brežice, forced a girl from vegetarian eating habits to eat lunch at school and not let her out of the dining room before her plate with a meat meal and sat there for at least two hours, following the claims of this same week. Such an understanding of healthy nutrition is absolutely viable and unacceptable in the 21st century, also in terms of the integrity of the child and the lifestyle of the family from which it comes. In this respect, we must take a major step forward in terms of understanding healthy nutrition. That is why, in early March, I addressed Minister Lukšić and Minister Miklavčič with the initiative to revise the guidelines on healthy nutrition in Slovenian schools. These guidelines are also mentioned in the law we are adopting today. And I expect that, in line with modern food doctrine and the knowledge of the largest food organisations, including vegetarianism, which today is also entirely appropriate for the diet of infants, children and adolescents, we will treat it equally because it is also the right of the children we want to provide this food to them. In short, I suggest we not fight an ideological battle on every subject. Today, this law is worthy of support because it extends the range of beneficiaries and expands the possibilities of ours [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u107	Mr. Vito Rozej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, chairman. I am pleased that the predecessors have already demented here the opinions of some who have obviously not read the law, so that by adopting this law we can eliminate the possibility of eating the socially weak and what has been heard. The fact is, as has already been mentioned, that there will be no change in primary school and secondary school, or that some who are unable to do so will be able to do better in primary school. I believe there are many high school students who have not already commented on this system. My friend Friday mentioned Ravna High School, which his son goes to, and I believe there's a good system. However, it is likely that colleague Friday will also agree, even though I know that he is very aware of the social situation and that he is also a fellow student, that he will not find it difficult for his son to be a high school student, I suppose it will be necessary, depending on the level of salary, to contribute, but now I do not know, EUR 16 or 9 per month. And that, in short, for those parents who can do it, it won't be too much of a burden. I am also aware that there are other problems in secondary education that concern social status, which makes it possible or does not allow it to be, in short, just a diet, but that it is also transportation. Now I don't know if the 188 euro bus costs on Muto have been mentioned. At least that's how my father did things in the opposite direction, and I think the price was a little lower back then. This is probably something that the Ministry of Education will have to pay attention to in the future if we are to ensure equal opportunities for schooling for all, regardless of where the secondary school is stationed. What is essential in this proposal seems to me to be what Mrs State Secretary Kovšac said at the end of the final word, that this law will impose a burden on those who can bear it. There will be no more than there are now, there will be fewer than there are now, and this burden will be more justly distributed. I also hope that the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, when introducing a single register of social benefits, will be able to reconcile these things with the law that we are talking about today that these two will not be at odds, but that they will somehow complement each other to take into account the wealth situation, as we are now doing in some other parts of our education. We, and here again, must acknowledge the quality of the proposal in the case of free kindergarten, of course, that we are ensuring some standard that our country is subject to in the civil development that we have come to. I'm holding a ticket to pay for my two children's kindergarten. It says that I will pay the price of the second class, which of course seems a little, given that the payment of kindergartens is, say, seven classes and that I am a Member whose net salary is not EUR 3,000, but slightly less. Of course, there are many other things involved. Taking into account the fact that I am paying off mortgages, taking into account the fact that I have two children in kindergarten, it is taken into account that my better half does not have such benefits, but had very low maternity benefits because we are practically expecting a third child in three years. It is also important that the congregation contributes something to it. In short, I have no bad conscience that because I pay second grade in kindergarten to carry too little burden. Actually, I think it's nice of this country to make it possible for me. If things were worse, I don't know how that burden would work. However, we must work to ensure that these burdens are evenly distributed in all periods of education. I have to say for myself, I have a personal experience so far only with kindergarten, I would like to see the burdens in both primary and secondary schools and later more fairly distributed and to go in the right direction with this law. We will probably also have a debate in the coming days on the next stage of education, in short, study and ways to provide more durable studies for students. I hope that we will all have in mind this note of social justice and an appropriate burden allocation for all social strata that would allow all children and adolescents equal opportunities for education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u109	Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. The objective of the opposition is to draw attention to what is wrong with the state of the coalition. And the task of the coalition is to rule. One of the opposition's tasks is to probably defend what she did at the time of the coalition. And I am glad that Vito Rožej told and thanked me before me, and thank God that we had a previous government that allowed him to take care of his children today with his low incomes, because if the state didn't help him so much, then he wouldn't be able to take care of anyone else who has substantially lower incomes. I would therefore expect, as one of the members of the current coalition said, that at a time when she was in opposition, she was alerting her to food, to free education, to, I don't know, food quality and so on. I say, the quality of a particular policy and also of a political party is that what the opposition says is then in the coalition to do. It is incomprehensible, though, that in the opposition you speak something, and then in the opposition you break the very foundations on which you have even won elections when you come into power. Look, we did a great job in high school in the previous term, and it was, well, you all agreed, even the current coalition, you wanted some more stuff, I don't know, for the purchase of kitchen equipment and so on, those who also marketed this food and got paid by the budget. However, you have made changes to the School Food Act by removing and taking what was done because you wanted to add something else. It would be better to upgrade this with the possibility of free, with social adjustment, nothing bothers me at primary school. However, colleagues and colleagues, high school and high school students who attend high school are some of the so-called drivers, so it is significantly different than around primary school. What those whose parents lost their job, or one or both, even go to work, have the costs, and businesses don't pay them, because those companies, if they want to get a job, even in Ljubljana, have said that they must first give the mayor fees for, I don't know, some contracts, for some money of 200, 300,000 euros, even 90% of the income or profits of the previous year and so on. In short, all of this takes us to some waters that are not good. If they're not good, it's also in the paper. The government should use tax money more effectively and ensure better control over its spending, so the European Commission's key message in its assessment of the stability programme for Slovenia, which we have just received. This means that the government is neither using effectively nor, of course, having no control over the consumption of tax money. This law, I think, from now on, could be said somewhat differently, not more than the School Diet Act, but "the law of sufficient, less satisfied and hungry." Well, when a mother, like in the family, starts with a drop in income, but "splits" when she starts "splitting" on children, then of course this is extremely extreme, then the whole ship sinks. But it's true that a stepmother starts cutting on children rather than a mother. I'm afraid this government coalition is a real stepmother to our children.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u111	Mr. Dushan Kumer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At this picturesque conclusion of my predecessor, it's hard to start, but I will. First of all, I would say that those who are so vehemently opposed to this bill, I don't know if you're operating on the right arguments, but I'm not going to list them, from reducing rights etc., etc. But when you talk about checkers and things that I have to say you really don't have any experience with. Listen, my kids are bringing in a bag from the high school table at home, but in these places in the past, when there was no free diet, it wasn't just food, there were many other costs on these tables. Many others, from natural days, cultural days, photocopying, paper, not to mention. Between €30 and €40, plus €30 and €40 at this same position, there will be €16 for those with a lot of money or more. That's right. But for those who do not have and are socially at risk, there will be no less than €16 at this post. And that's the whole story. And so before I listened to you, I kept thinking about how on an illustrative occasion I would tell you why I support this change of law. I said I supported 2008 as well. I believe that, given the situation today, economic and social, some note of solidarity is urgently needed. It is simply not possible for universal solutions to be taken in the light of the situation that is. And if we really want to enforce this positive discrimination against socially weaker layers, then I think we need to listen to this proposal that goes in this direction. And I said that's how I'd start. There was a lot of talk about family in the National Assembly a long time ago. See, a young family who enters society, in this cruel system of providing material conditions for this family: it is in kindergarten and has costs, not small costs, comes to primary school and has costs, even today it has to pay food when they come to high school when this family and parents of this family find little in this situation to have this meal free of charge. Do you think this is, not just the situation that they are, but do you think that's fair? Or is it for health reasons that by the age of 15, it can be nutritious in any way, but from 15 to 19, we will correct all mistakes in return. Therefore, from the very beginning and even then in 2008, I took the initiative to give young people all the time of education to the university, which is really something special, to ensure this freedom. But given the circumstances, please don't. It was an opportunity back then. I used to say, those of you talking about demagogism today was an opportunity when you were talking about Hammers and I don't know what else, it was an opportunity. Then we could have done it. Now you are putting it in our language that we suggest that colleague Jerovšek convene the Defence Committee and I would say that we are against national security, against the security of this country because we have resisted the military, arms and so on. You have this demagogy and put it in your last pocket. Once again, I support this concept and this direction of this bill in the light of the situation which it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u113	Mr. Bojan Kontic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! This comparison may not be the happiest, but it looks something like that. You make up your mind and give each day 10 euros to two individuals. And since you find that there's another third person who needs help, you're going to think that you're going to leave the first person who needs it the most with 10 euros, you're going to cut the other one by 5 euros, and you're going to give the third one five euros to make it easier for all three of them to survive. And what happens in the end? The one still receiving, the other five euros, complains with all voice that you took five euros away from him, but does not say that you left him five euros and made a transfer. It's a similar story today. You're saying that we're taking students lunch, of course that's not true, that students will be able to figure that out themselves, because even after this law, they'll still be able to have lunch in high school. Would it be right for everyone to have a free lunch? Of course, it would be right if we were able to do so, but we are not able to do so, as well as the primary school did when everything was flourishing in this country. You talk about it today when it's a little late. And if that money's not there, then what? It is necessary to maintain a meal for the social weak, and this is a social democratic one. These will continue to receive free food without any extra charge. However, those who can pay for this food and pay it in one share, and in this way we will also provide primary schoolchildren, those whose parents cannot afford it, with free food. Is that social-democratic? Yes, I do, and that is why it is worth talking about, and it is also worth supporting this law. And you're saying we're creating differences with this law. Differences have been made in society long before, thereby mitigating differences in society in secondary education and primary education. And another comparison. I've heard a number of times when I met people and when we talked about free school and free kindergartens and so on, they warned me that subsidies are being given to people with good cars, and now let's imagine it in their own way, taking children to kindergarten. Well, if there's money, there's nothing wrong with it, but since there's no funding, you need to limit that story. This is unfair to those who have no money to send their children into protective custody and later to school. And this is the social justice that I am advocating with my colleagues and colleagues, and therefore it is also reasonable to support this law. And once again, no one takes anything. Those who can do so will add something to their children’s diet in high school, and so is the case. I don't know why those who can do this would be subsidised by the state when other expenditure is also linked to social transfers more than enough. And what does this marriage bring? It brings good nutrition and subsidies in the field of primary school to those who have not now had these opportunities. And I see no reason why I would not support this marriage and even be satisfied with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u115	Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mrs. Silva Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. I think there's been a lot of talk in this room today. We have shown our behavior and knowledge of the history of the establishment of the Institute of School Nutrition, either in primary school or in high school. About how and how we have regulated this area legally in Slovenia and how the current law undoubtedly has social justice and is actually trying to mitigate the new severe differences in the distribution of Slovenian citizens and children in Slovenia. Of course, this institute was, in certain circumstances, as fair as possible. And according to the tools he had at his disposal, he was trying to sort things out as he could. Let's do the drill again. I think that in primary schools, according to the instruments available, they will be able to manage these things in a way that is said by fellow Jeraeva of the SDS, so that the personal data of the children will not be compromised and that this segment will actually cover itself well enough. However, I think it is very important to also say that in some environments, particularly large, urban such as Ljubljana and Maribor, nutrition in primary and secondary schools is already partially or completely subsidised. It is important that this law covers all those who are now students and who were once disciples and students who will become disciples. And that diseases that were almost eradicated by good nutrition and well-being in the country occur again during this period. I fear that not only vegetarians but also children with celliacs and other specific diseases will find it difficult to get the maximum amount of school nutrition they need. However, I think that within the Ministry of Health and through the projects available, children will also be provided with the necessary food, which we know is a prerequisite for creative work and for the development of individuals and individuals, which is also our goal. This law is maximum social justice and is also, to the extent possible, solidarity-based. And I think, given the time period, that is to say the crisis, which, not only in Slovenia, but also in Europe and the world, we have done or tried to do as much as possible. Otherwise, the Secretary of State has made it clear and unequivocally that this is the first consideration and that if such comments are needed and constructive arrangements are also adopted in the amendment form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u117	Mr. Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u118	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the implementation of the Slovenian National Party's position, I have already said that the proposal for the School Diet Act is necessary and necessary. However, we have certain reservations and concerns about the limitation of subsidies for secondary schoolchildren, because this effectively reduces the rights already acquired by the National Assembly unanimously granted them before a good half-second year. If we look at the issue a little bit wider, we need to understand the implementation of school nutrition as the basic standard of primary and secondary schools, because attending school or teaching is in some ways the work obligation of primary and secondary school students, as is the service here for us and repressing lunches for employees. I therefore fully agree with the position and thinking of some who propose that the provision of basic conditions for the implementation of school nutrition in primary and secondary schools should be an integral part of the basic activity and standard of these schools. Funding from budgetary resources should be included and should not be defined as a social category. In such a case, parents should normally bear only the costs of food and the material costs of school meals which are not included in budgetary financing, which is said to be subsidies as social corrections, should only take into account budgetary resources to cover the costs of premises, equipment, labour costs for pupils and students from socially disadvantaged families. In this way only potential beneficiaries of subsidisation would actually submit applications. This thinking has been given to us by more than one native who proposes that the system of financing and subsidising school nutrition with budgetary resources for primary and secondary schools should be equal. I am therefore referring to the subsidisation system as a social adjustment. In such a case, a different approach to the present proposal of the law should also be taken in principle and certain provisions and articles put forward should be thoroughly revised, and in particular the relevance of Article 15 should be considered in full. Not to mention enormous administrative procedures and costs that will be necessary and will arise in the implementation and determination of social justifications for all primary schoolchildren. I think that there will be a number of parallel issues and issues relating to accessibility and competence to provide relevant data in terms of security and protection of personal data. But that's not all. Another very important question is being raised, this is the very level of the school lunch price, which is 80 cents, which I believe is too low and will result in a largely lower quality of the meals offered, which, given the relatively high prices of food products in the Republic of Slovenia, will certainly happen. And I'm asking you to think about it. In particular, the school-food provider in one of the men's secondary schools provided me with data and cost analysis of the food ingredients he used to prepare lunches in the largest quantities. The findings were overwhelming. Quality could be reduced to a piece of bread with a standard coating and some apples. And tell me, dear colleagues and colleagues, this is a standard to justify the adoption of such a law, perhaps even boasting before the European public. It is clear from the above analyses that the average estimate of the purely average school meal is much higher than the proposed amount. Not to mention many rural schools that have only distribution kitchens and will only cover transport costs with difficulty. And as I have already mentioned the consequence, administrative costs, I would also like to recall the obligation to maintain central records in schools, in accordance with the rules of this law and consequently the question of who will be able to do all these additional works in school, including the issue of the costs of adequate software for central registration, etc. The relevance of the reasons for carrying out the individual activities provided for by the law is also questionable. In particular, it will be impossible to prepare, issue subsidisation decisions by 31. 8. 2010 When I have received the opinion of one of the mayors, I fully agree that it would make sense for parents to submit applications for additional subsidies in early September, the procedure would last until October and then, if necessary, to issue decisions in real terms. So here are some of the issues that we will further address in the second reading, and I also hope to consider with the competent ministry to take a look at the matter. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u119	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! First of all, I would like to say that we support the introduction of complete food subsidies in primary school, so that there will be no misunderstanding. We've heard a lot about this law replacing a hot meal with a healthy cold. Yes, please, those who know how to eat will tell you that hot meals are much more healthy than cold. Of course, we have nothing against the cold, but do not speak as if a warm meal were unhealthy because you are replacing now with a healthy cold. No one's gonna fall for that. You say this will be fairer. I don't know how much more fair it can be if you take away a portion of the high school generation's subsidy. But I'm not surprised because the main occupation of this government is when an official blackmails a minister and then the minister blackmails the Prime Minister, and you're all dealing with the deleted and you're making them seven thousand more. You'll have money for that. And that's more fair because you're going to take some of the subsidies from the student population. You're saying you're changing the law because of discarded food. What does this mean, though, that there will be no more discarded food from now on?Oh, my God! Instead of taking some control, let's say this diet is better, and the administrators are also committed to taking a little care of this order, and then you say you're changing it. As if in primary school, where it will really be perfect now, this is a good, perfect subsidy, they don't throw away food there. Will you have any control there? Nothing was said. You're saying you're going to reduce the administration. Yeah, well, please, if you're going to introduce some corrective, someone's going to get subsidized and someone's not. You'll have to have criteria, parents will collect some papers again, how much money they have, how much tax, how much cadastral income, how many family members, who are provided, who aren't, and then some official will decide - this will get subsidized and others won't. If you're nodding, then tell me, what's the criteria - who's going to determine? You'll just decide: John will get it, and Franchek won't. This one won't win because his dad's with SDS, and he's gonna get it because he's with SD. Just hold on to your head, I think you can hold on. And a bunch of things. A colleague earlier said: They will pay, for how many are these students who have mobile phones? Yeah, well, I'm asking you what the mobile phone will be now, the criteria for someone getting a grant, and the other one not. Yeah, that's what you were saying, not me, I'm just reminding you of that. And a few more Madam Secretary, you said earlier that the previous government has left you a bunch of obligations, and let me remind you. The former government has left no obligation, but the previous government has made such commitments that in December 2004 it was no longer for teachers to pay when we were in school. In December 2004, there were no more teachers' salaries. It's not your fault because you weren't in the government at the time, as far as I know, but just to remind you who left something behind, what debts. And don't say now that if you take something from someone, you'll have to define it by some criteria. I'm sure. If some part of the population gets subsidies in high school and others don't, there must be some criteria. I can't imagine what you're going to say and you're going to divide this high school population. So far they've been united, they've all been at the table, they could have gone if they wanted to. Now they're gonna say, "You can't be anymore because you're richer. You won't get subsidized, you can buy it, but you'll pay for it." The way it looks, that's different. In addition, I am very concerned about what such administration looks like when it is necessary to determine by some social criteria who is entitled to something that has higher incomes in which family of smaller ones. We already know, ask the mayors how many of them there are who bring children into kindergarten with a Mercedes, at least pay or even are subsidized, just according to the system that works, because this is very difficult because the problem of tax detection is very complicated, but it doesn't work for us anyway. Ask the mayors how many of these cases they have. It's a lot of cases like this, and now you're pushing this law into it again. Once again, I say that you won't tell us, we don't mind if everything in primary school is subsidized, that's okay, that's what we support, but taking part of the secondary school population subsidies, that parents will have to pay for themselves, and that's what we don't support, and that's what this is about. But how can you make these criteria how righteous they will be, and that's another thing, and I'm afraid of what it'll look like. And since you say you're out of tuition, it's said that all children have to be the same as you are now, but when you divide the school population in high school, when one of them has to pay the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u121	I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide tomorrow on Friday 26, in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 3. 2010 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THE FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE OBLIGATION OF FINANCIAL REDUCTIONS TO THE NEW COMPETITIONAL UNITS FOR THE WORLD'S ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CRISIS, IN THE FIELD OF THE REPRESENTATIVE PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by Member Franz Puksič. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members with the first-signed France Puksic requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to Mr Franz Puksic, the bill's proposer for further explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u122	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, Vice President, government representatives. The bill came from the initiative of most of those who paid the ara in advance, that is, those citizens and citizens who, with the help of help, wanted to secure a stable price. But this ara was paid at the time of the conjuncture when prices went upside down from month to month. What exactly is an ara? So he provides the one he gives with a fixed price. On the other hand, an investor is provided with a resource that requires or does not require as much credit or its source and, of course, can convert these funds and thus lead to a faster and less costly investment. What happened? Meanwhile, prices on the market have fallen and, of course, it has to be said that even so high housing prices are very much attributed or attributed to construction companies, which is by no means true, but many here have manipulated as well, so already with the land itself and, of course, with the municipal equipment of these lands. It is quite clear that these manipulations were not in demographically endangered areas, but where the frequency is large, where there is a lot of capital, where there is little or less space and a lot. With this law, we want to allow those who have paid the ara to come today under the same conditions as those who buy these housing units today. I am pleased, even before the law is being dealt with, to say the fact that some economic operators of a construction company are already predicting that they will lower housing prices, including for those who bought or concluded contracts before they announced price cuts, which, of course, is commendable. And so to speak, I will say, the purpose and desire of the proposer will be achieved. If I touch the government's opinion a little bit, but for my terms, in fact, we can expect it, because it somehow aims in this direction, to write all that is wrong or that is not right, but not to think about what is right for citizens and citizens, which step to take in order to benefit from the law. Of course I don't think he's perfect. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have the staff that we have at our disposal, which is completely incomparable to the Government. The government already said in paragraph 1 of its opinion that the content of the bill is excessively prejudiced and is contrary to certain articles. "Overdoing," okay, okay, we admit it, "overdoing," but what's "overdoing" now? Let us make the law "usable" for the first reading, in the second reading to be amended, the Government to prepare amendments, and as a first-signed candidate, here I say that we will gladly sit down with the Government and make a good law for citizens and citizens. It is for them, it is for them, and it is our duty to do something for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mr. Mag. Zoran Kus, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u124	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear High Council! On the basis of the opinion of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted at its meeting on 18.3.2010 that the content of the proposed law on compulsory financial discount for newly built housing units is contrary to Article 74 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as to Articles 155 and 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 74, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the economic initiative shall be free. It is a fundamental constitutional definition of the economic system in the country and also of human rights, which includes the freedom to take economic decisions at entrepreneurial level. In accordance with this provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, operators act freely and independently on the market. The proposal of the law in question interferes with the autonomy of contractual relations and, at the same time, with the rights of an individual already acquired, interferes with the freedom to carry out an economic initiative or to carry out an economic activity, which is unacceptable in terms of the economy. The adoption of the law would have full and only retroactive effects, as referred to in Article 155 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The adoption of the law would constitute an intervention in an already concluded contractual relationship and consequently in the already acquired rights of sellers to an agreed purchase. The adoption of this law would also result in the unequal treatment of operators on the market, as the amount of compulsory discount as regulated by the law in question is recognised uniformly, irrespective of the location and quality of the new construction purchased. Such flat-rate, if I so call, recognition of discounts seriously affects both the contractual freedom of the parties who, in the preceding phase of the negotiations, have reached different prices and any other additional advantages and have decided on the basis of these to conclude contractual relations. Therefore, the proposal for a proposed law does not take into account the possibility that some buyers have already included clauses which enable them to diverge in the event of a changed situation. The compulsory recognition of a discount to all entities would undermine the fundamental principles of bond and contract law, which is the principle of the obligation to fulfil the agreed obligation and the principle of equal value of the duties. The Contracting Parties already have appropriate levers and institutes in existing arrangements to achieve the same purpose or effect as the proposal for a law. The bond code governs the institute of changed circumstances which, in the event of a breach of the principle of equivalence of the duty due to changed circumstances, allows the contracting party to amend or terminate the contract due to changed circumstances. The Government is aware of and understands the good intentions that Member Pukšič had when he prepared the law in question. Some elements are already incorporated in some other laws, such as the law on the guarantee scheme of the Republic of Slovenia you know, and a number of elements or at least some of these elements can already be implemented through the guarantee scheme. Let me finish. In view of the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the proposal for a mandatory financial discount for newly built housing units due to the global economic and financial crisis disproportionately and irreparably affects both the constitutional right to an economic initiative, contractual autonomy and the rights of individuals already acquired. For these reasons, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia opposes the proposal of this law. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u125	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Daniel Krivec has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u126	Honourable Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government. The proposal before us will be supported by the SDS Group. Housing is a material asset of a social character that means satisfying one of the basic needs of life for each individual. As housing prices on the market rise, this life target for a large majority is increasingly difficult to reach or even impossible to reach. In the context of social policy, this area is very important and it is therefore more than necessary for the country to take appropriate action in this area. By means of laws and regulations, we need to make housing more accessible and avoid speculative practices that allow prices to rise to unreachable levels in the open market. In the context of the global financial and economic crisis, however, the State must intervene and protect buyers of new dwellings who have entered into a purchasing relationship at a time when real estate prices have risen abnormally. The tenants require that the contracts concluded be implemented, otherwise they lose the advance payments. All of this is happening at a time when virtually no real estate transactions are in place and the credit crunch is still in effect. The country, however, saves large businesses by measures in the banking and economic fields, reads construction, for the problems of small investors, reads customers, and doesn't even want to hear. With the proposed law, we protect around 3 000 buyers, especially young families, who, in the period between 2007 and the outbreak of the global economic crisis, paid advances in October 2008 for new dwellings that had not yet been granted to them or were handed over at the end of 2009. Advances have been made in good faith to ensure more favourable purchase conditions than those that will apply on the day of extradition. In this way, investors or sellers were provided with favourable funds virtually without any restrictions. The buyers of new apartments were placed in a materially poor situation by partial or total pre-payment of the purchases which the State had uncritically allowed, as investors do not recognise the actual situation on the market that was formed after the outbreak of the global financial and economic crisis after 2008. Bank loans that at the same time became even more difficult to access and potential existing real estates could not be sold at the same price. In addition, some buyers of new apartments also lost their jobs. The practice so far shows that investors or sellers of new apartments that have received partial or total purchases are not prepared to recover in the amounts paid in advance, recognise neither the appropriate revalorisation nor the corresponding interest. The buyers of new apartments may require payment of advance payments by way of court, but the path of justice is long and extremely uncertain. Cases in the real estate market prior to the outbreak of the global financial and economic crisis testify that investors usually make good use of legal loopholes and take money away from it, if they even exist before the legal epilogue, by losing virtually every trace of it. All of these reasons are in favour of the adoption of a specific law which will provide for buyers of new apartments who paid partial or full purchases in the period 2007 and 2008. The key reason for the adoption of the law on compulsory financial discounts is the global financial and economic crisis, which at the time of the signing of the purchase contracts, no pre-contracts in previous years could be foreseen. The fact is that, during the signing of contracts and the transfer of real estate, there have been significant changes in the situation which cannot have a negative effect on only one party in the process, that is to say the buyer. The draft law provides that the investor or seller must recognise a discount in the amount of the statistically established average reduction in housing prices in the Republic of Slovenia from the date of conclusion of the contract to the date of delivery of the property. For apartments issued in 2009, buyers are obliged to account for the discount and return the overpaid amount. If the seller does not accept a discount upon taking over the new apartment by the buyer and upon final payment, the buyer must pay back the ara or prepaid funds with legal late interest from the date of payment. If the proposal for this mandatory discount intervention law is not adopted, the buyers of new apartments that have partially or fully paid the purchase will be in an unequal position to the current new buyers, which are already in some way market conditions at competitive prices. In our parliamentary group, we support the proposal for a law because we believe that a step in the right direction is also for smaller buyers who are in some way neglected in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to all present. In the Group of Members, we really understand Member Puksic's wish to make it easier for some home buyers, especially young families, to obtain real estate through the adoption of the bill. But a solution that interferes with constitutional rights cannot be supported by us. According to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, economic initiative is free in its good and in its bad salaries. It is a fundamental definition of the economic system in the country, but also of human rights, which includes the freedom to take economic decisions at entrepreneurial level. Right and wrong. Of course, we agree that the country should make it more effective for individuals to have access to suitable housing. With this problem, young people, or all those who have not been granted rights from the so-called Jazbin law or the return of nationalized property, have been faced with everything since independence. The measures and achievements of the housing policy have so far been targeted and acted primarily on the demand side, thereby further raising the prices of real estate, while on the offer side, which would lower the prices of real estate and allow young families access to real estate, virtually nothing has been done. If we now follow the logic of this bill, we should probably ask everyone who has sold their apartments in the past 10, 15 and 20 years more expensive than they have come up with to make a difference, best in the budget. Because they did virtually nothing to make their apartment worth more, they sold it twice, three times, even four times the price, if of course they bought it in time, for example, 20 years ago and sold it at the time of the boom, say in 2007. Of course it won't happen. I bought my own apartment in the years you mentioned, right in 2007. That's why I had to rent a mortgage, and I thought it was smarter to do it with a loan that would be tied to a fixed interest rate, because in 30 years, a lot of things could happen. I would also now like to rent this mortgage at a variable, variable interest rate. The European Central Bank has reduced the basic interest rate to the lowest point so far, including banks. All others who have a variable interest rate mortgage are now paying less and I am paying the same as before the change in interest rates. I can of course wish that the bank would change my contract, but I see no reason why the bank would do it if its smaller profits came from that. What can really be done in this situation in the field of ar may be to reclassify an ara as one of the priority claims in the event of bankruptcy. Because there are some construction companies in our country that have picked up the area, started some activities, some projects that are not coming out now, and those payers will not be among the top-paid creditors of these companies that would go bankrupt. I do not think that this is the topic of the Ministry of Environment and Space, but rather of the Ministry of Justice. There might be something to be done here that would have no unconstitutional consequences. We all know that the Istanbul Declaration of the United Nations, and some other United Nations Convention, speaks of the right to adequate housing, which concerns, inter alia, price availability and suitability for residence. The right to housing is defined in the European Social Charter, which obliges these signatory countries to take measures to improve access to housing in a more efficient manner and to improve the affordability of housing for those without adequate resources. Our Constitution also provides in Article 78 for the State to create opportunities for citizens to obtain suitable housing. If the European Central Bank believed the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia in 2007 and in the summer, the euro monetary system absorbed EUR 95 billion quickly, which would give everyone who had experience in the financial and monetary markets of the former Yugoslavia and the then monetary system the possibility to think and know that the liquidity of the system is obviously questionable and that the crisis is imminent. This was in the summer of 2007. These were just the times when you say that this country was uncritically allowing for the events mentioned in the explanation of the law. It is known which government then ruled, and which government I will say so, uncritically allowed. Even if we now wanted to identify, say, a statistical reduction in prices, we would have a problem. The apartment is now sold much less than it used to be, sold only and exclusively well-preserved apartments, not some that would still need renewal. And since those that do not need to be rebuilt are not sold at all, let's say their value in the statistical drop in prices is not even included. Therefore, I think it would also be difficult to determine what a statistical reduction in prices is at a time when trade is practically zero. In 2007, when the end of this real estate balloon, which we are also talking about today, the then government always boasted of a high economic growth, which was five percent based on construction. However, construction was based on credits, which we have already mentioned, and on the exploitation of seasonal workers, preferably from abroad. It's a boomerang coming back to us now. But he must return into the right hands, not into the hands of those who are fit to hunt him, but into the hands of those who have cast him. It is also a fact that it is not necessary, and this experience from European countries shows us that it is the property that provides for the possibility of citizens getting a suitable home in the 78th Article of our Constitution. In Slovenia, the public rental sector fell below 10% of the total housing fund after independence, while the equity increased to about 85%, especially during the crisis. Thus, we can see that the ownership sector will probably not be able to sustain this size, mainly due to the constant deterioration of the ratio between the price of the square meter and the income of the population. Generations that we have bought an apartment in recent years have given more average income for it than any other generation before us that has solved the housing problem. In fact, housing is therefore an increasingly unattainable goal for most people. Housing policy does not allow a faster transition to a single life, and therefore we also witness a large number of couples living in their primary family because of the inability to regulate the housing problem, and as a result the birth rate is probably not what it could be and could even be listed. We therefore agree that it would be useful to look for new, more effective solutions, with the Scandinavian countries as an example and above all again. Access to non-profit, rental apartments should be increased, it would be useful to examine whether the right to housing can be better and more assured if we focus on an integrated model of a social rental apartment, whereby apartments are built and offered by different public, private and other providers, such as Sweden, where the public is aware of public rentals owned by non-profit organisations under the supervision of local authorities. Access to these apartments is possible for everyone, is universal, and they also know the cooperative apartments whose owner is a residential cooperative and members pay their share of maintenance and use costs for their stay. The duration of the lease shall be unlimited, the amount shall be determined by negotiation between the organisations of tenants and representatives of local authorities. And these are the questions that we need to look for common solutions to. The common solutions, in our opinion, lie in a different role of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, and lie in the smarter and fairer taxation of real estates, especially those not primarily intended for housing, but do not lie, in our opinion, in the draft law before us today and therefore in the view of the Zares Group - The new policy is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u130	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government once again have a nice greeting on my part! In the Slovenian People's Party, we have been paying attention to this problem, the problem of buyers, in particular the problem of young families who were living in the period of the fastest increase in housing prices, from 2007 to the start of the global economic crisis in October 2008, paid advance payments for new dwellings and were not yet paid to these housing units or delivered to them in 2009. The general situation of these buyers has generally deteriorated significantly as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. The circumstances in the credit market have increased dramatically, the appropriate loan has suddenly become inaccessible to a number of buyers, even if they cannot sell their existing real estate at the same price as they planned before the crisis and when they decide to buy a new apartment. Some have lost their jobs or have lost their personal income as a result of the crisis. Do you remember those of you who said today that you don't support the law, that you promised, your finance minister, a minimum wage of 1,000 euros? Do you still remember that your coalition party promised 1,000 euros in pensions? Where are the trails that used to be? But since all of this is not happening, something must be done by the opposition. In the opposition, we are those who are not dealing with affair, but we are concerned about the slightly nicer cruelty of this country to our citizens and citizens. That is why we are exclusively preparing proposals for different laws, which are not the fruit of political prestige, but the fruit of the need, needs our citizens and citizens, because we live between them and them, that is, on real soil, not in clouds and thick cakes, above, from which we see very little downhill. The minimum wages and pensions of 1,000 euros are not available, and the possibility of purchasing a number of apartments has become apparent. Experience has shown that investors or sellers of new apartments that have received partial or total purchases are, unfortunately, not prepared in the vast majority to recover prepaid amounts, nor to recognise the appropriate valorisation, nor the associated interest, but insist on contracts concluded at the top of the Slovenian real estate balloon. Since we wrote this law, to this day something has changed. In the supplementary explanation of the law, I have already said that some construction companies have also begun to recognise lower prices to those who, before the crisis, paid the ara or went to sign the contract. We welcome these companies. In the Slovenian People's Party, we just want this trend to continue. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have decided to submit a law on mandatory financial discounts on newly built housing units due to the global economic and financial crisis, which would thus protect some 3,000 buyers. When we wrote the law, it was an estimate of about 3,000. From then on to today, the score is between 3 and 5,000. In view of hundreds of different calls, letters, e-mails, messages and so on in support of this law, we are even more confident that it is good and that it is simply necessary to accept it. We agree that it should be complemented. We suggest that together we do not go, at least at this point, ideological battles, but do something for young families together. I have already said this as a proponent, and I am now particularly repeating this on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. At the same time, the State must take appropriate action and protect its citizens. This is also the case with the Government's opinion that it is obliged and, in the extreme case where it is necessary, it also cuts off by law. Given that you are speaking, we are talking about a crisis that has not occurred since the 1930s, an emergency situation is, of course, an exceptional one, especially for this part that we are talking about: for young families. These are young families who have just begun to create a home and have a long life course ahead of them. Their quality of life will also depend on our autumn life. We have to be aware of that. The law thus introduces some simple and socially acceptable solutions if we want to be friendly to young families not only in words but also in actions. Thus, the law provides that the investor or seller must recognise a discount in the amount of the statistically established average reduction in housing prices in the Republic of Slovenia from the date of conclusion of the contract to the date of delivery of the property. For apartments issued in 2009, buyers are obliged to account for the discount and return the overpaid amount. However, if the seller does not accept a discount upon the acquisition of the new apartment by the buyer in respect of a certain payment, the buyer must pay back the ara or prepaid assets with legal late interest from the date of payment to the buyer. In addition to helping these young families, the law will have positive effects on investors, banks and the state budget. Thus, by increasing the volume of housing sales, although at slightly lower prices, liquidity will be markedly improved. This will make it easier for contractual subcontractors to pay back loans to banks that have also provided investment funds. The improvement in the liquidity of construction investors will mitigate the risk of repayment of loans to banks, allowing the latter to open up the possibility of multiple long-term placements for housing lending to the population. As far as the budget is concerned, it will reduce the inflow slightly due to the valuation of the residential transaction, but in total income much more than in the event that the dwellings remain unsold. The law basically prevents only buyers from being harmed in the event of a drastic change in the market situation, while investors can also make profits that are not, of course, justified. Among investors, once again, I stress that we do not rank or think here only about construction companies, but also about everything else that matters. This means a far-reaching price of a square meter for the possibility of construction and utility equipment. Because of the strong deterioration in the situation in the construction sector and also in the social state, it makes sense that housing does not remain unsold. As a country, we must decide what kind of signal we will give to young families and young people who decide whether we want to help them or leave them alone. The possible options with supplements in marriage are different. After a year and a half, it is high time for the coalition to be aware of this and take seriously the government's proposals to complement it, to improve the law, because they say, as I mentioned at the outset, that we are overreacting. Let us make sure that there is not too much interference that will be in line with the law and the constitution. The Constitution also requires us to protect weaker parties, to implement certain measures, if necessary, because of economic, social or environmental developments. In any event, primary concern and integrity in the conclusion and take-up of contractual obligations on the parties themselves, we are aware of this and therefore legislative intervention in the economic or contractual field is permissible, is permissible but in extreme cases. And if we're talking about the crisis and we're comparing it to 80 years ago, then that's exactly what's allowed in this segment. Not acceptable, urgent, correct and necessary. That is why we decided to propose such a law in the Slovenian People's Party. Housing is certainly a material asset, but it is not only material goods, but housing is a material asset of a social nature, which, of course, means that the State has an obligation under Articles 2 and 78 of the Constitution to regulate this area by allowing an individual access to suitable housing. And look, that is precisely what is required by Articles 2 and 78 of the Constitution, and under Article 74, you must not unduly interfere with certain matters. And I would expect the government to go to explain its opinion by already pointing the direction in which we're going to go. And so for an apartment, which is material and social goods, when we talk about young families, I don't know, we would set a specific limit, say, to buy one apartment, so that what has happened, as has already been said, in the Law of Jabinsk, that someone bought 10, 15 apartments on favourable terms, because he took advantage of the financial incompetence, the inability of some, and then sold them even at a factor of 100 times the higher price. This is the task of both the government and the government coalition and us, Members and Members, to do so in accordance with Articles 2 and 78. The bill is intended to protect buyers of newly built apartments and single-family houses, i.e. weaker parties, as our constitution also speaks of. "The very definition of the circle of entities to which the proposal is intended to apply is not sufficiently clear," the Government said, "and so precise and thus inadequate to the criteria required by Article 2 of the Constitution in the drafting of the rules." Yes, indeed - as I said, we have composed it with our best possible powers at our disposal - that it is not clear enough. Tell us how, and we'll complete it together. At the same time, it is noted that the concept of prepayment does not also cover the concept of the Ares, which, according to the explanation of the bill, is also intended to cover. Of course, it's his intention to cover for him. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the law and we want to go to another reading for the benefit of our citizens and citizens. Citizens and citizens often ask me if we will do anything useful for them at this meeting. I told them that this time we will deal with this housing law and if the government coalition wants creative cooperation, we offer them a hand, not because of the opposition, not because of the Slovenian People's Party, I said, because of you, citizens and citizens, then we will do something useful this time. You are therefore invited to cooperate and supplement this law. We really want that in the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh, you have the floor on behalf of the Dessus Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u132	Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Members of the DeSUS Group do not, of course, support this bill and we will vote accordingly. From a substantive point of view, the proposal has only one solution: to legislate the obligation of sellers of newly built residential units to be indebted to buyers with whom they entered into purchase contracts before 31. 12. 2008, to be recognised as a financial discount at a certain level. It is therefore intended to provide the legal benefit to the buyers, not all, but merely a limited group of buyers who entered into contracts in 2008 and whose apartments were handed over in 2009 or have not been delivered to them. The applicants' argument of urgency for the adoption of this proposal relates to the conclusion by this group of buyers of contracts the subject of which has been subject to a higher price than or at today's prices. The higher price is due to the economic crisis. It is understood that the applicant advocates the legalisation of the benefit for an extremely narrow circle of people, the purchaser of short-term dwellings, by imposing an obligation also to a narrow circle of people, dealers or sellers, which should also bear all the financial consequences. The idea itself is so, I can say, extremely popular, populism for the first group of people, buyers, and certainly totally unacceptable for the second group of people, sellers. The proposal does not in any way give rise to the idea of possible more comprehensive housing reform, which is certainly necessary in the Republic of Slovenia, but merely a narrow distribution of benefits to a small number of populations, which we cannot support in any way from DeSUS Members. Of course, we are aware that the consequences of the financial and economic crisis have also left their mark in the residential area. We are also aware that, despite the extremely high prices of real estate, individuals have been buying these properties during this period. And we are also aware that some buyers were, simply put, bereaved. This is certainly not fair, whether it is at a time of crisis or at a time of economic prosperity. However, the proposed solution does not go in the direction of regulating the general housing policy, nor in the direction of protecting weaker customers. [[buyers]] in general. This is about, let me repeat, an extremely narrow group of people who have entered into a contractual relationship freely, on the basis of their will and also consciously high prices for the property they have purchased. That it is still an extremely high price of property that most young families cannot afford without the help of their relatives today, there is no denying it. However, Members of the DeSUS believe that this should be regulated in a uniform manner by adopting such a housing policy, which would guarantee legal security for the consumption of housing, protection against discrimination and, above all, ensuring equal access to affordable housing for all people and their families. To this end, we should all strive together. We should strive to adopt measures that are long-term-oriented, but not just some emergency solutions that do not allow for a solution to the housing problem. And the proposed law goes in this direction alone - it represents an emergency, reckless solution, which in no segment interferes with the regulation of the housing problem in Slovenia, which, in our view, would be absolutely necessary. The opinion of the DeSUS Group that the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration is further reinforced by the arguments put forward by the Government in its opinion, and that is why I will not repeat them to this city. Members of the DeSUS do not support this bill. In the DeSUS and DeSUS Group, however, we would be very pleased if all employees and pensioners had 1,000 euros in pensions. We did not promise this, but we are committed to having it, Mr Pukšič. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that it is appropriate and reasonable to consider the proposal for a mandatory financial discount law for newly built housing units due to the global economic and financial crisis. It's a treatment where you could actually say something else for the well-being of the affected. If the proposed law had been implemented, we would have protected almost 3,000 buyers, especially young families, who, during the period of the fastest increase in housing prices from including 2007 to the outbreak of the global economic crisis, in October 2008, paid the Ares or Advances for a new apartment and their apartments were not sold to date or sold to them in 2009 and later. It is not a small number of affected citizens and we cannot take them as a small problem. Above all, we must bear in mind that housing is a material asset of a social character and represents for each Slovenian one of the basic and unique goals of life. As housing prices rise, the goal of Slovenians is becoming increasingly difficult and realistic. The main reason for the adoption of the mandatory financial discounts intervention law is the global economic and financial crisis, which in no case was foreseeable at the time of the signing of the purchase contract in 2007 and 2008 and in fact means that substantial changes occurred between the signatures of the contracts and the extradition of the dwellings, which cannot, however, have a negative effect on only one contracting party in the contract relationship, i.e. only the buyer in this case. In the Slovenian National State, we consider that this is an exceptional situation and it is the responsibility of the State to prepare appropriate measures and to protect the buyers of new apartments, as it has already done in the case of the issue of the guarantee scheme, most of them construction companies. Finally, it is also fair that the burden of the global economic and financial crisis is distributed fairly among investors and buyers of new housing units because buyers as a weaker contractual partner are certainly in a more vulnerable situation. Unfortunately, however, the Slovenian Government has a negative position on the proposals and states that the content of the law unduly interferes with constitutional rights and that the law is contrary to Article 74 of the Constitution of Slovenia, this is a free economic initiative, as well as Article 155, Article 4 and Article 2 on the administrative and social state, etc., not to mention anything else. I wonder whether we actually have a social democratic government or a government that is actually led by neoliberals and protectors of large capital. And that is what the largest construction companies that see, rob and impoverish this already impoverished homeland with too expensive services are, that I do not talk to any other unfair acts when we pay for their implementation at an abnormal cost, which you do not find in Europe or in the world. Regardless of the Government's arguments, I estimate that in these cases, the buyers of the apartment are facing an emergency and, given the economic crisis, the loss of services, poorer credit conditions, etc. With regard to the guarantee scheme mentioned by the State to companies, it is clear that the largest number of companies that have received guarantees are construction companies, including Vegrad, which are currently not in the best position. No wonder the largest constructionists insist on these abnormal housing prices. The fact is, at the end of this machination, we're going to pay all the taxpayers. It is a shame for the state to artificially combine the high prices of housing, including poor housing and in poor locations, despite the excessive supply on the market. In Slovenia, if I recall correctly, there are some 16 000 unsold apartments available. The abnormal prices of apartments that have long gone beyond all normal limits. On the other hand, she is deaf to an average citizen, as the bill-maker states in this case. Despite the fact that the applicant provides statistics, we agree that the prices of new buildings have dropped slightly. However, prices are still not comparable in terms of supply, 16,000 apartments, and demand. We can say that for these housing prices there is not at all. In Slovenia, there is a strange situation in the real estate market. The big builders want to make the most of the profits, not to talk about the exploitation of workers, not to pay their obligations to subcontractors, not to repeat myself today, my question yesterday was about not paying contributions, because it will be me, [[But now I won't be interrupted]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u135	You're right, Mr. Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u136	It could happen. So I'll change the subject. On the other hand, we have buyers of apartments who need to find out for themselves. They are essentially hampered by the State in granting housing rights for the purpose of assisting construction companies. In Slovenia there is no real valuation of the prices of real estate dwellings according to accommodation in the space and quality of stay. This is also one problem that should be dealt with in detail once. This may happen by the enforcement of the mass valuation of properties that we have been waiting for since 2006, by the way, when a law on the mass valuation of property was passed. I think it would be fair for us to leave the proposal for this law to be considered, perhaps further processed, and then, with all the corrections or additions, we find a common solution to make life easier for all of these affected buyers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State and to the few colleagues and colleagues interested in the subject. Perhaps we are talking about a very serious subject that is a problem for many. And the solution that's proposed is from that column, the more fun part of "It's not true, it is." The solution in this way - against the constitution, against the law might solve one problem and open up a thousand others. It is important to note, however, that in the period 2007 to 2008, which was obviously a golden period in Slovenian history, as this part was not adequately resolved, and when we read the news in Dnevnik, that the price of dwellings in Celovské dvorje fell by 35%, that the situation on the market for young families is certainly better for the first apartment seekers today, and that with wages that are too small, they can certainly buy more square meters of housing than at the time they were dipping honey and milk. I'm glad that that's how those real messages come in that way, that not all the gold that shines is not always gold. But I said and stressed that we are talking about an extremely important and serious topic. This law, however, is more necessary than debates and debates. The ownership of housing or housing is considered by the vast majority of citizens and citizens of our country to be one of the greatest values and places it very high on a scale of other values. In our country, due to a variety of circumstances, but mainly due to a lack of well-thought-out privatisation of social housing, the structure of the housing fund is largely dominated by the ownership of rental apartments. If we compare ourselves here with the old members of the European Union or some of our neighbours, the situation is exactly the opposite. Such ownership structure in itself, in addition to other factors, generates further demand mainly for housing and housing, but does not refer to the regulation of the rental market. Housing policy, critically, has simply deepened the crisis so far. The solutions were unthinkable and, above all, too slow. The reasons for the high prices of residential property were not addressed, so various promised measures and laws on the real market in our country did not affect, not realistically, but even less psychologically. In a situation of conjuncture, high demand, when all apartments were sold - regardless of quality, location and other factors, and in the context of high expectations of a large number of investors in residential properties, prices have certainly increased compared to neighbours, Europe and the world. The financial and economic crisis has also turned the market upside down in Slovenia, but with the difference that investors and construction companies are currently waiting for normalisation of the situation and apartments are not selling to a greater extent, although they are in great liquidity problems and although the current housing prices certainly exceed the purchasing power of potential buyers and are significantly higher given the market situation. In these circumstances, a group of housing buyers were also in an unappreciative position, which, unfortunately, had not been paid in the autumn of 2007 until the financial crisis. These customers are subject to the proposed law, which provides that the seller must recognise a discount in the amount of the statistically established average reduction in housing prices in Slovenia from the date of conclusion of the contract to the date of delivery of the property. The proposed measure certainly sounds logical and fair in particular for customers, many of whom are young families. However, that is not the case. The measure, unfortunately, is not acceptable from a constitutional point of view. In its opinion, the Government is also full of these arguments, and we must also agree with them, you do not want to, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The measure is certainly, and in particular, contrary to Article 74 of the Constitution, since it is impermissible to interfere with the freedom to carry out an economic initiative and is contrary to Article 155 of the Constitution, since it constitutes a retroactive application of a law which infringes rights already acquired. At the same time, the implementation of the measure would result in unequal treatment of operators on the market, as the level of compulsory discount, as regulated by the law, is recognised uniformly, irrespective of the location and quality of the new construction purchased. From the point of view of absolutely high housing prices, it represented the worst neurological point and is also represented by Ljubljana, as well as some other more important, more desirable regional centres. These areas certainly cannot simply be compared with regions where there were no worse housing problems and where average prices were significantly lower. However, while this group of house buyers is not without legal possibility of exit, the Government also points out in its opinion. This is Article 112 of the Bond Code, which governs the Institute of Changed Circumstances. In the event of a breach of the principle of the equivalence of the duty due to the changed circumstances, it shall enable the Contracting Party to amend or terminate the contract in the light of the changed circumstances. Of course, the eligibility of a change or divorce can only be determined on a case-by-case basis, but in general, for all purchase contracts over a period of time, as set out in the proposal for a law. With the available instruments, the country has already responded to the unsuspecting situation of individual groups of people in financial difficulties since the outbreak of the crisis. It did so with a guarantee scheme for natural persons, for more vulnerable groups of natural persons in solving their housing issue, and especially for those who first solve the housing issue. But the emphasis was given to young families. The scheme also allowed banks to transfer part of the risk they themselves bear and take to the country. Today we certainly all agree with the conclusion that the situation in the Slovenian real estate market has changed significantly due to the financial and economic crisis, because, as I mentioned in the introduction, as a result of the partial decrease in real estate prices. However, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are certainly joining the Government's view that such restriction and interference in the contractual autonomy of entities on the market in already concluded contracts at the abstract level, as envisaged by the proposal for a law, would certainly be inappropriate and unacceptable. However, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are aware, and we are working in the direction that structural, especially in the long term in the area of real estate, will have to change a lot. It must not happen to us that the high prices of real estate and non-development, as well as the expensive rental market, make it impossible for society to develop more rapidly. 20, even a 30-year repayment of loans to young families that do not have the soul's property development, the potential of the country, since these funds would make more sense in terms of the development and progress of society to invest in education and learning. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we have always supported measures that have improved the housing security of citizens and citizens, even though they have had relatively small and sometimes even questionable effects. This time, in the case of the bill under consideration, we cannot support the legislative and substantive reasons for the proposed measure. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, it therefore concludes that the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for further consideration, and we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Silva Montenegro. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well-welcome Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! It is clear that the Social Democrats Group fully agrees that housing is a material asset of a social character, which means that the State has an obligation under Articles 2 and 78 of the Constitution to regulate this area by allowing an individual to access suitable housing, but not in a way that interferes with the autonomy of contractual relations and at the same time the acquired rights of an individual, which is actually a proposal for a mandatory financial discount for newly built housing units due to the global economic crisis. The adoption of this proposal would have full and only retroactive effects. It is true that the law can provide that individual provisions of the law have a retroactive effect if this requires public benefit, but only if this does not prejudice already acquired rights. The Constitution protects acquired rights in such a way that they cannot be affected by the retroactive effect. Such consequences would have been the adoption of the proposed law, as it would constitute an infringement of the already concluded contracts and contractual relations and consequently the already acquired rights of sellers to the agreed purchase. The adoption of the bill would also result in unequal treatment of operators on the market, as the level of compulsory discount, as regulated by the law, is recognised in a uniform manner, namely, for each entity or buyer, irrespective of the location and quality of the new construction purchased. The general principle of equality before the law referred to in the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitution requires that the legislator regulate substantially equal positions equally and substantially different situations. Such flat-rate recognition of discounts to all customers does not take into account the different price changes regarding the location, quality, size of dwellings on the real estate market, while seriously interfering with the contractual freedom of customers who have reached different prices and possible other discounts during the previous stage of negotiations. A mandatory discount, as defined in the proposal for a law, could thus undermine the already agreed mutual equivalence for the parties. However, the Contracting Parties already have more appropriate levers and institutes in existing arrangements to achieve the same purpose or effect as the proposal for a law. However, we also have the Bond Code, namely, the notable 112th Article is governed by an institute of changed circumstances which, in the event of a breach of the principle of equivalence of the duty due to changed circumstances, allows the contracting party to change or terminate the contract due to changed circumstances. The justification for a change or divorce is thus determined in a single, specific case in which all the specific circumstances of the contractual relationship between the parties can be taken into account. For all the above and also a number of other reasons, which are already and will be shared by the parliamentary groups and Members, the Social Democrats' Group will not support the proposal for a mandatory financial discount on newly built housing units due to the global economic and financial crisis. Because it is a law that limits itself to a narrow circle of people and limits various freedoms. The Group of Social Democrats, however, foresees and strongly hopes that a law will come soon to regulate this area in a comprehensive and acceptable manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word is Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I must point out that the colleague who was preparing the proposal of this law has only begun to prepare it quite a long time ago, when there were still different situations, as it appears that they will begin to regulate during this period. That's how it's supposed to be in front of your eyes. However, what the colleague said in the SD Group's opinion that a law is being drawn up which will regulate the whole area, I do not believe that for this area governed by this law, the Government would have prepared a comprehensive solution because I believe it is difficult to prepare it. I understand the arguments why the Government gave such an opinion as it gave means negative, for the reasons it cited. However, the fact is that we have what colleagues have already mentioned in the opinions of the parliamentary groups that we have in Slovenia in the area of housing, unfortunately, a lot of problems, including or arising from the structure of dwellings - in particular they are ownership, extremely small percentage, I do not know exactly what these percentages of rental apartments are. Of course, the last few years of the conjuction have seen an enormously unrealistic price of ownership apartments or apartments. As a result, they grew unreasonablely, certainly, even the rents - not the non-profit ones, but all the other rents. I will say this again, and as a result it was clear that in such unreasonable rents, there was certainly a significantly greater interest in housing expectations after the purchase of apartments than in these unreasonable rents. In this regard, I have repeatedly pointed out to my colleagues, when we discussed this issue, that it is not a problem - the problem of the construction price or the price of the apartment is repeatedly highlighted, but we are stressing the structure of this price. In particular, I would have relied on two items: one is the price of land. Not the price of land offered by the original owner on the market or as agreed with him. We also see the latest examples in Slovenia of what happened with this price building, especially with intermediaries: sale at four times the price or ten times the price. And the intermediaries are, of course, those who serve all over Slovenia. And secondly, that they are not entirely innocent after all, I will not say everything, the community with municipal contributions. In some cases, the congregations set a real price, and in some cases the congregations, of course, sought to increase their municipal budget through municipal contributions and all these donations. In recent years, there have certainly been tremendous expectations of profit in all these players in the construction process, from land resellers, municipalities with municipal contributions and construction companies. But years ago or now in the last period, we usually criminalized construction companies, we always left them behind, and we always left them alone. Thus, the problem of dwellings in Slovenia is certainly extremely large, the smallest is probably where the construction organizer, such as, or a different, rental or ownership fund, is situated where prices have been relatively adjusted all these years. I also know a lot of builders who simply don't know and can't predict, especially in this recent period, what is going to happen to this real estate market. So I am in a dilemma, in any way, I will support this proposal in the first reading in order to try to prepare for the second treatment with some adjustments yet -- especially what I was talking about around land, especially in the field of intermediaries, municipal contributions and so on -- that we are trying to solve in this way, in my opinion, about 5,000 customers, these are mainly young families. Such information was obtained by a colleague, young families and 5,000 young families, I do not know if this is negligible, a small percentage of the Slovenian population, which has some small problems with any other important issue, it is to provide a roof over their heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word is "silva blackugelj." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well-known Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Housing in Slovenia is not satisfactory, especially for people whose income does not allow them to solve housing issues themselves. Due to the specificity of cities, the gold of larger, urban settlements such as university and higher education centres; Ljubljana, Maribor, Koper and so on, which are also the premises of employment opportunities and major social pressures, and cities without a sufficient number of student and student homes, the lack of available housing is also the largest. I don't want to or will not compromise how much in Slovenia we have built, finished or unfinished, built apartments that are empty or unoccupied or not sold, whether it's a famous number 10, 15, 20 or not, or how many apartments. All I know is that the national housing programme has set objectives and measures to better achieve results in this area in order to meet this basic need for housing. However, new practices must be put in place to address this need, as socio-economic relations, in particular the financial environment, have grown beyond existing practice and reality, not to mention the crisis. Public-private investment society is necessary and important not only because of attracting private, especially banking, but also other capital, but also because of the introduction of rational business methods that are not yet sufficiently established. I personally expect intensive preparations are under way for the launch of the public-private investment consortium for the purchase and construction or construction of already built apartments. Societies with individuals in solving their own housing issues are operationalising the constitutional principle that the public sector also creates opportunities at local and national level, and I strongly believe that citizens and citizens will be able to obtain suitable housing in this way. The forms may vary: the own financial participation of future owners, tenants and owners or owners, the rent or the purchase of apartments with the possibility of participating in an invitation to tender for the allocation of housing, co-investment, the creation of new, other forms, co-investment in share, the establishment of other forms of financial housing funds at the national and local level. Since we do not have stable, well-saved and runaway practices of public-private society in Slovenia, I expect that the multi-disciplinary government commission will only offer an appropriate systemic solution for this area. I believe that, in implementing new ways and approaches, this Commission will face a number of obstacles and many criticisms, as well as many contradictions, particularly those that constantly negatively assess past and present work and solutions. I believe that new solutions and ideas need to be followed, as this is the only way to get closer to the objective in price and quality - either own or rent - of housing for everyone, in the form of Articles 2 and 78 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. But the proposed law, because of its inaccuracies and great partisanism, unfortunately, I will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The word is Mira Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. I will support this law myself, because it has a good purpose, it is fair to the people who in the past have paid a real beautician price for these apartments. The reason for these clothing prices is to be sought from the construction and real estate agents and agencies themselves. In the National Assembly, we have an investigator who deals with construction work, and the fact is that we are in a swamp of irregularities in this area. We've got a clean shovel. Of course, it is part of this Slovenian construction in the so-called fifth branch of the government, which is based on its influences, with the finances it manages matters in society and also in politics itself. A prominent Slovenian economist, Ivo Lavrač, said in Finance yesterday that a number of construction companies would fail and that it would be more prudent if the state subsidised the rent or purchase of apartments rather than directly aiding construction companies. There will certainly be a number of construction companies in Slovenia that will disappear in the future, and there will certainly be some where the state guarantee will place this burden on taxpayers. And many analysts, if you read yesterday's Finances, say that the guarantee scheme is before the complete breakdown. This guarantee scheme is a great risk and the state guarantees certain large construction companies that are on some thread whether they will survive or not. If subsidies were given to individuals, to young families, this risk would certainly be much lower, these people would use their money to refine this subsidy, hire bank loans that they would not reprogram, buy real estate, buy apartments, and thus get additional funds into the budget. Thus we have many new empty apartments in Slovenia, especially in Ljubljana, because they are too expensive and the builders are walking around the Minister of Lahovnik and asking for his mercy. At least to this day, housing prices have not dropped much. Today, we read in newspapers that housing prices will be reduced, but let us be surprised, perhaps true. In Ljubljana, it costs 4000 euros and more per square metre of housing, which I think is an absolutely catastrophic price and a huge extra profit is being turned here. I understand that the price of land in Ljubljana is significantly higher than in Koroškem, but the price of lime, the price of cement, the price of sand, the price of iron is the same in Mercury, Slovenia, as in Ljubljana. The price of a square meter apartment in Koroška is 1,000 euros, in Ljubljana 4,000 euros and more. To buy for sure even cheaper. See, the Republic of Slovenia bought a residence in New York years ago where it paid EUR 3,500 per square meter. There are 4,000 euros per square meter and more in Ljubljana. Two, three years ago, the Republic of Slovenia purchased premises for the Consulate General in Trieste. We paid about 1,000 euros per square metre of this space and that in a nice location. Clearly, the real market is not yet functioning in Slovenia. The supply and demand are not working, because the price should be higher, prices should be falling, but in Slovenia this is not happening. With empty apartments, the price remains very high. Something small also because the State with these reckless interventions in the form of this guarantee scheme maintains a state such as that. In short, the intention of this law, which has been tabled by fellow Member Franz Puksič, is good and shows support for it because it is good for people. I think it will also be supported by the ruling coalition. Surely, though, this vote will show who is in line with these construction tycoons or who these construction tycoons are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word is Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. This debate has shown by now what the views of the Social Democrats will be on the proposed law for a number of reasons. In my own debate, I would like to focus on the fundamental problem or the challenge that the law poses, and this is certainly the fact that in our country in 2010, we face a specific situation in the real estate market, which is not as much a consequence of the economic crisis as, in my firm opinion, even the wrong decisions in the last 20 years. With a housing law that has undoubtedly provided a favourable opportunity for my parents to solve their housing problem and to obtain social property in an appropriate way to buy and thus pour into private property. Today we know that today's generations do not have such a favourable opportunity to solve their housing problem. Moreover, the approach to privatising this social housing fund, which I do not criticise, has led to 94% of all privately owned apartments in Slovenia today, 4% of the market rent and only 3% of the non-profit lease. Such a picture in this residential area is very different from the other countries in which we like to imitate ourselves. If I just mention the Netherlands or Scandinavian countries where the housing fund is about half, 30% is a social non-profit lease and 20% of the remaining market rent. The numbers vary from country to country, but somehow this distribution of the housing fund is a constant in all Scandinavian countries. The underdevelopment of the rental market of dwellings, whether by private providers or by the state and local community, is a fundamental problem that we have in the residential area of the Republic of Slovenia. Also because we know that today many young people who want to create a family have the minimum foundations to be able to create a family, they have the minimum security and, by the way, also one of the fundamental human rights, and this is the right to housing, so that today, in the absence of appropriate policies in this area, we give them only one option: to be credited for 30 years. If you are lucky to have a job, usually for an indefinite period of time, it allows and if you have a high enough salary to take on the burden of this great debt. I think this requires an active approach to the new housing policy. We have written in an alternative government programme as Social Democrats that we will advocate for the regulation of transitional dwellings for young people according to the Swedish model, which assumes that in the first years when a young person becomes a single person, the community will provide him with a favourable possibility of renting and, in fact, gradually increasing the rent in these apartments makes him manage his housing problem in a different way. Now some like to define every thing in politics with values, and we Slovenians have become a distinctly owned, proprietary nation in the last 20 years. This can be historically conditioned by our being extremely attached as a nation to our earth. However, if we look at the situation 20 years ago, we know that no one was missing because he lived in a comfortable rented apartment. In this respect, it seems to me that some shift towards addressing another challenge, which has been brought about by the economic crisis, this real estate balloon, which was created due to extremely favourable loans, the amount of money available on the market in the past period, and the fact that we have a huge amount of sold-out apartments in Slovenia today, which have been built for sale on the market, we see that we have two needs in society: on the one hand, there is a need for a certain construction sector - I am not among those who believe that the country must be carefree to this important sector of the economy, construction in Maribor in the early 1990s has failed in its entirety and it has taken more than 10 years to put it back on its feet - and, on the other hand, it is clearly necessary for young people to deal appropriately with the housing problem. The responsible country must respond appropriately and link these two needs. I do not say that the only way is for a country with a mass of money to now buy unsold apartments, and not least by alibiing the construction sector for perhaps wrong business decisions in the past. However, I think that a country with different mechanisms, including a scheme that would actually help reprogram normally short-term loans to the construction sector - the principle of building these dwellings is that a construction company, an investor has acquired a short-term loan, usually up to three years, bought a land, built a real estate, sold an apartment and paid off a loan. So that these credit obligations - and some of you have already referred to the guarantee scheme and the data that shows that a large part of the State's guarantee for loans under the guarantee scheme for the construction sector - are being reprogrammed in exchange for these investors, these investors, who now have these unsold apartments, to include these apartments in the public scheme of the project organised by the State. We talked to Secretary of State Kus about this model a while ago, and there may be some misunderstanding or misunderstanding about interpreting numbers because he might be forgetting another note. Look, the Austrian pension funds are building their long-term capital sustainability largely on the housing fund. Our capital society and the funds we have in this area are very far from the housing area, but the real estate is someone, as I say, a safe asset, especially in times and I hope that in future speculation it will be less and that it is not expected that balloons, as we have seen recently, will break so easily. It seems to me that we have some clear needs in the country and that they need to be linked. Notwithstanding the fact that I will be among those who will vote against the adoption of this law, I must say that I attach a good purpose and a welcome opportunity to talk about this extremely big problem that we are facing in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u150	Your Honor! Good bye to all of you! The law that we are considering today will certainly not solve all problems in both housing and construction areas in the Republic of Slovenia. However, there could be some contribution to starting to regulate this area in a different way than we are now witnessing to it. Currently, in the Republic of Slovenia, construction companies have EUR 3 billion 500 million in debt to banks. On average there are 1,200 debtors in this area. The daily amount of outstanding liabilities is €80 million. The volume of activity in this area fell by more than 15% in 2010 compared to the previous year. Indemnity, which mainly burdens small subcontractors or subcontractors of subcontractors, is an ever-increasing problem, so great a problem that in the case of Stožice Stadium we have witnessed one of these smaller entrepreneurs commit suicide because he was unable to pay his employees. Not to mention everything else that is going on in this area, and to overlook the fact that the largest state bank is supposed to be involved in lending this mega project with unknown guarantees, which ultimately will have to be paid by taxpayers amounting to 150 million euros. It would be necessary to reach out to this area in some way, by reducing the high prices of real estate in the real estate market through the state intervention and, on the other hand, by speeding up an activity that is in a deep crisis and which, if it does not, will sink one of the Slovenian banks. The worst solution in this case would be to ensure that the country, through the rehabilitation of Slovenian banks, ensures that an overblown real estate balloon is maintained at this point, as is the case today. This law does not solve all of this, but it does mean that one important impulse is that politics, the National Assembly and the Government are aware of the need to do something. In view of what the law provides, one part of the price of dwellings would also be reduced. It is therefore unreasonable to object to the law and not to receive broad support, particularly because the provisions can be further recast, drunk and improved to the extent that it can have even wider effects than it intended to have in the first phase. I must say, I am very surprised by these measures, which we have witnessed in the last period that they have not taken. For example, one of these was the amendment of public procurement legislation, where a certain article sought to ensure that this financial non-discipline, the most burdensome of small subcontractors, was regulated. Once we had adopted this law, it was clear to everyone that nothing would be resolved by what had been adopted. Today, people in practice who are familiar with this area and who are working on it every day say or convince us of what we have talked about by the Slovenian Democratic Party and some other opposition parties in the National Assembly that this law will simply bypass this in such a way that in these procurement procedures there will be no 100 or more subcontractors, but only one and all will then not receive the provisions of this law, which means that this problem will not be resolved. On the other hand, this situation - not only now at this time, but also for a few days now - is an ideal opportunity for the ruling coalition to realize its ambitious commitments under the coalition treaty, where in one part of the discussion there were 10,000 apartments, non-profit apartments, but then this number before the signing was deleted from this coalition contract and it is only a matter of providing these apartments properly. I think that regulation should go in this direction, so that, on the one hand, through price maximisation, it is said, at a lower level than market prices are currently happening, and through financial, tax and housing policies, it is possible to intervene in this area so that this blocked real estate market is released. More effects could be achieved through this. On the one hand, those who do not have adequate housing would be given the opportunity to access them and, on the other hand, the impact on the reduction of overpriced prices would lead to stabilisation, normalisation of this market and provide an additional impetus for new investments in this area. And this marriage, I think, needs to be seen in this direction. I think his ambition is the first step on this path, which is a mistake if you refuse it. I think it should be supported and further upgraded in the legislative procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Rojoj, you wanted procedurally. Please. You have a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u152	Mr President, as the first of the same, you are very committed to talking respectfully about each other in the National Assembly and to using real data in your implementation. A colleague of Montenegro here gave false information about an entrepreneur [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u153	My friend Roses, you can contact the replica [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u154	I'm sorry, I can't. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u155	This is not a procedural proposal, this is an abuse of a procedural proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u156	I wanted to suggest you at least respect for the dead. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u157	No, it's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u158	If respect for the living [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u159	No, it's me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u160	Because we know that [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u161	I'll assess when I need to respond. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u162	this entrepreneur did [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u163	Please, Mr. Rose!Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u164	of the Moroccan end [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u165	This is not a procedural proposal!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u166	And, of course, the performance of a colleague of Chernač. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u167	Joseph Jerovšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the economic and financial crisis has also severely cut off our lives and, as always, the biggest victims are, small people, average people who have struggled to raise financial resources to obtain these basic attributes that are necessary for a normal family life. This is also the case when we have before us a law on a financial discount for newly built housing units that have somehow been overpaid or incurred at a high price. During this time, the crisis has developed, prices have dropped, and these same people have lost their income and so on. And I think the law is going in the right direction. Perhaps it can be further worked out - some legal clauses. However, it is significant that there is no understanding in Slovenia in the government ranks for these 3,000 people, perhaps even more. The government coalition clearly refuses to take sides with a small man, the average man, because, on the other hand, there are principally real estate traders, strong people who have connections with government policy. And, see, some of these crises have also broken down, because in the last few years, money has been used to do so and some have been recklessly investing. Of course, for some I believe that this authority has foreseen a twofold refund - for the consecrated. You are now opposed to any financial discounts, but we know that in the context of last year's budget rebalancing, you wanted to provide €33 million in defence budget funds to the Members' proposal to pay for built dwellings in Ljubljana. That was the Ljubljana mayor's request. Completely rob the defence budget, endanger the security of the country and so on - this was not a problem. I am sure that if that were to happen then, it would be net profit or net profit for some dedicated merchants who have excellent ties with the Ljubljana mayor and the government. That's when we stopped it. However, the government coalition carried out this in a different way, through the amendment of the capital law, by which Ljubljana is supplied directly from the budget and even without public calls. Some merchants will resell these apartments in one way or another. And that's the outrageous "robot" of the present power. At the same time, it denies the social sense and sense of justice that those who do not really know how to pay the rent to the end, or how not to pay it, which is an eclectic injustice, because the prices of property in Ljubljana and in Slovenia were strained across all borders. At this price they calculated everything possible, and this money flowed into exactly defined pockets. And ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in Slovenia; on the one hand, those who have built the apartments are those small people, workers, with human dignity, such as those who were there in Kočev at Mayor Webro's Prenov and here speak in Ljubljana that these construction workers are at the stadium with human dignity to turn into a slave-ownership order. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not deserve slaves in the form of workers, and Slovenia must not have and should not support such investors, who run such projects in such a way that they create slave-ownership relationships and, at the same time, we must direct those super-profits to politics, by means of laws, so that those who overpaid their apartments cannot pay them to the end of the day and it is unjustifiable to pay them to receive discounts. Let us therefore make this law in such a form that it respects this right. You, I see, are under the clause of the acquired rights of investors and sellers and you're protecting it up to your last breath - those who have already cleared the money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The word is Franc. You can't, Mr. Webber. You haven't spoken. Did you talk? You haven't spoken, unfortunately I can't give you, there'll be another chance to correct the wrong statements - anyhow. If there's any time left for the debate, you'll be able to apply and now you won't. The text is by Franz Pukšič, but not as a candidate, but during the time of the parliamentary group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u170	Thank you very much. As a proposaler, I will finally take up a few discussions and then, in the end, comment and propose certain matters. In the Slovenian People's Party, as we have already explained and on behalf of the parliamentary group, we have stated why this law has been drafted and also written in explanation when we compared it with other European countries, that all European Union countries deal with housing issues in relation to the resolution of social issues and they adequately interfere with their legislation. Today there was a lot of things that I'm going to say a little bit later, what everything needs to be done. It was also said on 17 November 2008, when the new government had both an insight into revenue, expenditure, when it had an insight and an entire government team, the finance minister Dr. Križanič spoke here in parliament about doubling the minimum wage from EUR 500 per 1,000. As I have already mentioned, even in the pre-election campaign - you know, say: we will stand for 1,000 euros in pension. That is true, but people have just taken it, and now we're going to get 1,000 euros, and that's how they've talked. As far as the housing scheme is concerned, that's all. Some have read what their bearings and kindergartens are and so on. I'm the father of three kids myself, and I know this story, but now they're a little bit bigger. When they were solving their first housing problems, your housing scheme really couldn't help you. The credit using your housing scheme is significantly higher than at any other commercial bank. And that, colleagues and colleagues, is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The word is Daniel Krivec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u172	Thank you for your word, again. I will once again support this first debate and propose that the debate on this law continue. Nevertheless, I think, despite all the debates that have referred to legislation and that the law is inappropriate, it has been felt that most people are aware of this issue of small investors, small investors and the need to protect them in some way through the country's legal frameworks. This is also an intention and also a constitutional value that we have written down. In some cases, it is said that a small investor or small buyer is protected through appropriate regulation. Of course, large players on the market, such as construction companies, have the possibility of reprogramming certain loans and certain funds they have invested in these investments by improving their situation. In the case of small buyers, this is much harder. And the fact that they don't win much with the lawsuit is actually very much in place. I think we are facing similar problems as certain economic operators who have purchased electricity at significantly higher prices in the market in the past, and have now, when the crisis is and when the price is for energy, including electricity, has fallen, problems, because they are also paying twice the price for energy, which is reflected in their product and in that some have difficulty maintaining jobs, because electricity can be very high within certain sectors. In these cases, too, it is possible for some major entities to find a sound with their sellers who are at their disposal by somehow reshaping these contracts. However, in the case of smaller tenants, smaller economic operators, this market principle is ruthless and these contracts are cemented. The same is true for these small buyers of dwellings, and it would therefore be necessary to respect the positive orientation of this bill and to reshape it in further consideration so as to help resolve the situation. Of course, it is not a number of individuals, but quite a number. As has been said in previous discussions, we are also releasing certain financial resources to help free the credit crunches to open up certain credit opportunities for banks as well. And I think that this positive part that this law can bring in this direction is sufficient reason to support this law at first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The word is Brada Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. In this law, I would complement the predecessors and, above all, the position of the Group of Members with the thought that came to mind when I examined the law. Nor in such a highly despised and undemocraticly marked socialist Slovenia would we hope to adopt such a law that interferes retroactively with business relations between individual, business and physical entities. So, the fact is that such a law is not appropriate, not only not suitable for consideration, but a member or a group of Members who give something to their credibility should not propose it for consideration by the National Assembly. It could have been a good purpose, but they say - the old saying is that "the path to hell is pressed with good intentions". And in this case, of course, we would have come to the point where the law was definitively adopted and enforced, a whole range of business entities on the other hand, which, on the other hand, accounted for 3 000, from which this number was also not comprehensible to me - business relations, sales contracts that had not yet been realised, would have immediately triggered a constitutional review of this law and would certainly have fallen to the Constitutional Court. Because it simply stretches or favours one side of the bond ratio to the other side, it is also important to consider that we end up destroying such a coerced force or, I will say, pushing, exerting repression also at the end of the end on the investor who built the apartment. That's one piece of the medal. The second side of the medal is this: it is true that we have written in the coalition agreement that we will ensure that we provide the largest possible fund of rent-free dwellings, especially for young families, and we have not deleted this from the coalition agreement. The rest is in it, and we will work hard on it as well. The Ministry of Environment and Space will prepare in inter-resort cooperation by next year - I am counting that such a law cannot be passed earlier than the second half of next year - changes to the housing law, which will be essential, in connection with the mass valuation of property and the property tax law, which will ensure that empty, uninhabited private-owned apartments are put on the market and that owners of these empty private apartments will have an interest in renting apartments for non-profit rent. In this way it will not even be necessary to build new dwellings because we know, we have very clear, very reliable information about a huge number of empty or seemingly empty apartments that are paid for very high rents, and no decent tax is paid for them. And here is actually the hidden possibility of implementing the plans of this coalition when it adopted a coalition agreement. As a result of this, such laws as we are witnessing to them today, as is spoken of today, of course not to benefit from the implementation of these plans, which are certainly not only for the benefit of this coalition, but also for the benefit of all young families, but also those of older people who simply can never get a decent place for decent rent. In 1991, the Housing Law turned the Slovenian relationship between rentals and property and essentially closed the door to a crowd of young families and also middle-aged families on the way to a rental apartment, because many Slovenes and Slovenes will never be able to buy their own apartment. For this reason, it is the duty of this State to take care of rental apartments in particular and to give these rental apartments to citizens and citizens of Slovenia for an acceptable rent. By the way, I would like to say that when we talk about workers who work under inappropriate conditions who live under inappropriate conditions and are not citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, it is, of course, something quite different than what we are talking about today. For this reason, I must say that the exploitation of workers is not a suitable topic to open this debate, but we have already had and will have legislation on the agenda, where we can still discuss how our country cares about the rights of workers who are on temporary work with us and who are citizens, especially the former Yugoslav republics, and we do not know how to treat them as we should. But let's leave this subject alone. I think that to consider or at all confirm in the first reading a law that is fundamentally unconstitutional, which we have heard of being violated by at least three articles of the Constitution through this law. I do not think that the second reading of this law can be corrected in such a way that it can be treated in a normal manner. Therefore, it would be appropriate for the drafter to consult with the lawyers first before he even applied. After all, we have a number of very good - quality lawyers in the National Assembly to advise him on what to do if his purpose or purpose is serious enough and indeed well - intentioned. At the time of the review of this law in our parliamentary group, we have found that it certainly cannot go through a serious assessment of legality and constitutionality. And there's something else I'd like to say. To all those who support this law so much, I would advise you to read it first before you speak of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Would you like a word from the government? He doesn't want to. Would you like to speak with the motioner, Franz Pukšič? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u176	Thank you very much, President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. I hope it won't be obvious to me to read my marriage either. In fact, before it came into existence, we discussed many aspects of what it brings or does not bring. But it's true that something more than what you wrote down in the coalition contract. The second year of your term is running out and you still have nice words, nice sentences written in a coalition contract, and on the real scene of course: nothing. Clearly, this nation has nothing to expect of you except what you say with your work. But it's better to do something than just talk. That's why we've also done this and hoped that you'll understand at least so much - I don't know, I even have such a positive feeling that the government has somehow steered so, so little in between. She didn't know exactly what to do. It seemed that something could have been done, so already in the first paragraph, when she started writing, she wrote that "the bill of law was an excessive intervention" and then stated - not three, because you really did not read the law, but two articles of the Constitution and, of course, referred to two articles of the Constitution, which also needed to be respected, that is Articles 2 and 78. It is true that many Article 2 does not apply - "Slovenia is a legal and social state." Unfortunately, there are also some things we heard the last time, some kind of office-lawyer, and I don't know what kind of country we're becoming. And in Article 78 - and this has been pointed out by the Government - it says that the state creates the possibility that citizens can get a suitable home. Of course, people would expect more from the Social Democrats. As a proposaler, I thank the Slovenian National Party, the Slovenian Democratic Party, for its clear support. The other Members and Members - what shall I say? I entrust them, however, with trying to vote in accordance with the Constitution if anyone or anyone is allowed outside of what has been said from the mouth of their members. During their coalition debate, some wanted to say that they wanted to be liked and populist for customers. No, God forbid. That's not even what this is about. It's just that we just help people. It's just that, and it's just that there are problems. And since problems are, they need to be solved. It is true, though, that the popular and populist statements were made about 1,000 euros in wages, pensions, and so on. These were just popular and populism statements. I was surprised to learn that in some parliamentary groups or some Members spoke only of Articles 74 and 155, which say we cannot go retroactively back. But look. They have this democracy at least ten times longer than us, in the United States of America, and how they have done it retroactively in Congress on the banking system, and it seems that they have made it through what they have done. You know, if there are some anomalies, if there are some mistakes, then something like this happens, it happens, it happens, then of course it's a task for us, Members and Members to do it. About unconstitutionality, etc. Yes, because we have so many lawyers, so we can make a law, it has six articles. I remember government laws that had, I don't know, 216 articles, and they had 315 amendments to those. Then why not simply, there is no problem at all, amendments, additions, etc. But to say that there will be something urgent to be done in the area of real estate - we can talk about it in the opposition and we point out this because we do not have a government and we do not run this country. The one who runs this country, that is, the second year is running out, half the mandate is over, of course, it's time to manage and to make some of it, but not to warn the opposition from the coalition now and attack one MP group, Members who prepare something, do something. I don't know, I think it's one of the 147 laws that the opposition has already tabled in the field of economy, social, youth issues, etc. Of course, all of these were rejected by the coalition or themselves comes with some strategies, minor matters, same-sex, deleted. In short, with the very same things that do not bring any solutions - on the one hand, on the other hand, even stop the fresh capital that is available in Europe when we negotiate it, we do not use it. At least from SD, from LDS or from Res, there is not much to expect, but I would only expect SD to say, yes, we will support it and we will complement it, given that we are in the second year of power and that some new solutions and ideas that we have not yet brought, but we can. Maybe it's just a chance to install them through this marriage. I also deeply agree with those debaters who today have said that housing prices are also higher - what is now publicly known, even after this commission of inquiry, which is active in the National Assembly - because of the sponsorship contracts, because companies had to pay the sponsorship contracts. What everyone can say is that not only did what was officially written on those contracts say there was a lot of other things. But clearly, it's not done in front of cameras, it's not done through the media, it's not done in public. She gets into a car and takes her to a country where the suitcases change and things move on. There are really problems here. And that the young SD MP is talking about that other solutions are not like this, to be credited for 30 years - this is of course not the solution - and that he has a Swedish model in mind and so on. Yeah, well, that's just not a solution if it's just ideas written on paper somewhere. This does not bring bread and water, but concrete actions, nothing else. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, to those who wish to resolve this problem, do not put your head in the sand, as some others do. Be brave, do something for these citizens and citizens. Let us support the law and complement it in the second reading for the benefit of these citizens and the citizens who elected us. It is true that some come to Parliament once because of some one-time promises, and others because of this because they are doing what is right and fair, whether they are in opposition or in coalition. I suggest you think with your head and support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u177	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? [[He does.]] I'm asking you to sign up. One panellist and three panellists were reported, each with five minutes each. There's a word for Brad Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u178	True, this law does not violate just three articles of the Constitution, as I said, and I am correcting myself. Otherwise, there was no need to read the law in order to determine how many articles of the Constitution were violated because the Government had prepared a sufficiently clear review of the violations of the Constitution in this law. He's not only in violation of two, as you said, Mr Pukšič, but he's in violation of four. In violation of Article 74 of the Constitution, which states that an economic initiative is free, violates Article 155 of the Constitution and violates Articles 4 and 2 of the Constitution. For example, the definition of entities to which the proposal for a law is intended to apply is not clear enough. This violates Article 2 of the Constitution, which states that the law must be and that the clarity and certainty of the rules must be very precise. Because this law does not explain, or clearly does not specify, which circle of people is involved, this article is also in violation. Furthermore, the law may provide that certain of its provisions have a retroactive effect if this requires public benefit, but only if it does not prejudice the rights of others acquired. This is the second paragraph of Article 155 of the Constitution, Mr Pukšič. Furthermore, Article 14 of the Constitution requires that the legislator regulate substantially equal positions equally and substantially different situations. Such flat-rate recognition of discounts to all customers does not take into account the different price changes regarding the location, quality and size of dwellings on the real estate market. Here I would say that we have a law called the Bond Code, which is one of the most extensive laws adopted by the National Assembly, and it can be measured, as far as I know, by the law of the sea, by the number of articles, but it may not be necessary for all, even though we are Members of the law, that we know about all the articles that have individual laws. In the bond code, the basis is that, if market conditions change substantially, the buyer may request or return there or that the seller also change the terms of the purchase contract. Many of the buyers you have talked about have already concluded such contracts so that they can now achieve changed purchasing conditions. However, it is important to know when you talk about how this law can be corrected, but you do not achieve what it requires or prescribes, two articles of the Constitution, of which it is important to speak, and of which our coalition agreement actually speaks. This is that housing represents a material good of a social character and the State has an obligation under Articles 2 and 78 of the Constitution to regulate this area by allowing access to suitable housing for an individual. Therefore, it is not the duty of the State to enter into business to make contractual relations between individual entities and transform them into one or another partner's positions of authority. It is the duty of the State to ensure that all citizens have access to suitable housing. In view of the situation as it is, and in view of the general social structure of people in Slovenia, it is certainly our country's primary duty to ensure that there are enough rents for non-profit rents, whether from the private or from the public sector. And here this law, which you have proposed, certainly does not solve this issue, and therefore the state has the task of coming to this in the next year and a half.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Janko Weber has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. In times of economic and financial crisis, it is very important what legislation we adopt. This must be truly extremely well thought out, for the consequences can be extremely severe. This law, which we are considering today, is seemingly pleasant to the buyer of apartments, who is supposed to provide them with discounts, but of course it also has a drastic impact on the area of construction and investors, which in times of economic and financial crisis means further deepening this crisis. And this is what needs to be pointed out in this law in particular, that it actually causes more damage than benefits, and if we add that construction is an extremely important economic sector, which contributes very significantly to economic growth and also to the increase in gross social product, it is also necessary to examine the impact on the situation in construction companies which would certainly cause them, since it is up to investors to give discounts to the purchasers of apartments. If we add to this the fact that happened in Kočev and was mentioned by Mr Jerovšek; if you want to help people who protest in Kočev, then you must vote against this law. However, if you want their problem not to be resolved that the employer will not be able to meet its obligations to workers, then the adoption of this law makes the situation of the workers who protested worse. So let yourself somehow clear up whether you are in favour of improving the position of workers, or are you in favour of adopting this law. You talked about the urgency of this law, but you are causing a lot of problems to businesses and, of course, to employees in companies who expect to receive an appropriate payment. I will, of course, oppose this law myself, even for a number of other reasons, which have already been very clearly presented today. Once again, I would like to point out that in times of economic and financial crisis, we must by no means get on the bench of as unfinished legislation as this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Because now the forerunner has challenged me. I must say that I do not expect that employer from Kočev to ever take sides with the workers, because what was happening, what we were informed about from the media, is not human. And Mr Weber declares the employer the greatest victim, even though he once said that the congregation paid everything, only after ten by passport, and the workers did not receive the payment they deserved. So, Mr. Weber, I see you're not on the workers' side. I'm on the workers' side. Those of your employers there have a drastic impact, not on construction, but on social and labour policy in a way that should not be affected. And also at the stadium in Ljubljana. So it's interesting that this is happening in the redest municipalities - by the mayors. That's interesting. I believe that, for the moment in this form, everything is not in accordance with the Constitution and so on, it can only be completed, but you are a priority against and you have no interest. I understand that a fellow Member can't be on this side that I, I mean in a social sense, belongs, I'm sorry, I mean I'm sorry or she can be happy [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u183	Comrade Jerovšek, you are going very far past this debate, although it is general, but you will miss the direction of the debate so completely, I must warn you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u184	Madam can be proud because perhaps one of the most corporately connected families belongs to Pecan-Jamnik now, which controls the largest part of the capital in Slovenia. And for that reason, you can't take sides with those [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] You have more in your wallets, I admit, that's true, I don't have enough [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u185	I must give you a warning, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u186	The lady tells me something like that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u187	The lady was just appalled as far as I could see. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u188	Well, Mr. President, you're quite successful at disturbing Members, but still, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u189	Lord Jerovšek, a second admonition.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u190	I must once again say that I am on the side of those who are victims in this situation of the financial and economic crisis. [[...]] As I pointed out earlier, the most dedicated, the most dedicated will be paid twice - those investors or those who have enabled them to do their jobs, which have provided them with land and so on. And the little man remains punished. This law is one of the laws called the Lacumus Paper of a sense of righteousness. It's a sense of justice. He who hears righteousness does not carry within himself, but he will prevail against it. But let us imagine where this leads if we have an authority that is not willing to listen to gravely disturbing situations, severe hardships, severe irregularities. Today I read in the paper that of those, if it's 70 square meters of apartment, if they gave 35,000 euros are, that if we don't change anything, it's best for them to leave the ara and leave them, and start if they're still able to buy new apartments. Don't you think there's a screaming injustice in the sky? Of course, this time you are for the legal system, bound, like, a right as a legal path as you exercise in this country. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] But I believe that this law can be worked out, that even those who have been the victims of a bloated balloon will be [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u191	Thank you very much. The word is "Silven Tiny."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We have heard many different explanations and opinions. The objective of housing policy should be the renting relationship at non-profit prices for young families. It is wrong to offer ransoms to young families, to credit them for 30 years or more, and thus to put them into the uncertainty that is everyday, especially when it comes to paid and permanent jobs. Next comes the market, as the whole of Europe imagines - supply and demand. That's the real thing I think it should be, and we'd save those four grand that's being paid too much today. It is true that banks are flexible to builders and that the state treats banks the same way. I believe that the bill is well-intentioned and would be upgraded by inserts that would correct some things in the direction that it is harmful already in the customer's stage, and these are mainly young people who have given it and so on. Look, we have congregations that have not built a single nonprofit apartment so far, even though they are co-owners of a public housing fund that builds so - called nonprofit dwellings for young families, and no one gets involved. But they build profitable apartments and thus lose young people who move to other municipalities, and this is the cancer of individual mayors who persist, so it would be good to ask why there are only profitable constructions in certain municipalities and for young people to be completely forgotten. The bill, as I said, is well-intentioned and would prevent damage to those young people who made decisions at another time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Friday, 26, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. 3. 2010 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the outset, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 25 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the text to the representative of the drafters of the law, Dr Vinko Gorenak, for further explanation of the bill. Please. The government, if she wants to, will come, and if she wants to, she will talk, she will always be a welcome guest in Parliament when we invite her.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u194	Thank you very much. He's probably a little bit here, isn't he?Oh, my God! In short, on behalf of the motioners, I can say the following on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts. On 12 October 2006, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a Resolution on national development projects for the period 2007-2023. The resolution sets as one of the main tasks the integration of the services of the institutional environment through technological innovation, which is also one of the main objectives of the justice system information strategy for the period 2008-2013. By 2013, and this is a very important information, any paper business should have been abolished in the courts. However, any information from the courts should be accessible electronically and electronically. Electronic commerce means the comprehensive informationisation of procedures from submission to conclusion of the case and, of course, effective access only of authorised persons to relevant information. In fact, the aim of the projects is to fully inform the work of the courts, with which it is possible to shorten the duration of the proceedings, which would have an important impact on the big problem we have - these are judicial backlogs. Let me remind you that in the previous term, a lot has been done in some areas. In the framework of the Judicial Register project, it is worth mentioning a lot of things, and in the framework of civil procedure projects, it is also important to stress the fact that information has not been carried out or has not yet been fully carried out in criminal proceedings. As far as the objectives, principles and main solutions of this bill are concerned, I can only mention the following: the objective of e-Justice is to ensure the effectiveness of judicial procedures in the judicial system and to accelerate the achievement of the fundamental long-term objectives of the Republic of Slovenia in the justice system, with appropriate information and communication solutions. In our view, the proposed amendment to the Law on Courts establishes a regulatory framework for the creation of information for the individual court registrations of all proceedings before the courts, thereby enhancing the quality and efficiency of judicial work. This will simplify and consequently shorten the procedures, which I hope is still our common objective, in order to inform the work of the courts or to inform the minutes. They also simplify the monitoring of efficiency. The proposal for a new Law on Courts and the establishment of information for individual court registrations establishes the principle of legal certainty and the exercise of the right to be tried within a reasonable time and the principle of the public in all judicial proceedings. The proposed amendment to the Law on Courts will have, in particular, positive solutions for more transparent conduct of judicial proceedings, especially in certain parts of the public data available to authorised persons. Let me just remind you, say, of the then or the change in bankruptcy legislation a few years ago when we made certain data publicly and accessible to everyone and found out what was or is still today what was wrong with this area, which we would not even know if those data were not publicly available. The proposed solution is inevitably necessary in order to ensure legal certainty and to ensure the exercise of the right of trial within a reasonable time, including in accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 6 of the European Convention. Finally, we did not have much to say about the resolution of a matter in the Administrative Court, which was resolved in just one day, most likely past the entire order - not likely, certainly past everything, which should not have happened in such cases. Otherwise, the waiting period in the Administrative Court is 365 days. The information officer, for example, has been waiting three years for some of his cases to be resolved. We save or save certain things in one day. These are all anomalies that shouldn't have happened. Of course, I will be able to say more below and explain in my role as proponents, but for now only to expect the support of this law and not to find reasons against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an additional introductory explanation of the opinion. Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Surely we can agree that we have a common objective when it comes to informationising the business of the courts and when it comes to speeding up the proceedings conducted by the courts. Notwithstanding the fact that we agree on a common objective, we obviously see different paths towards that goal. The Government does not support this path proposed by the proposed amendments to the law, nor is it because such a bill is opposed both by the Supreme Court of Slovenia and by the Council of Justice. This is because this law is primarily directed towards the addition of certain powers to the Information Centre of the Supreme Court, which does not need those powers, and in particular not in a way that would be in dispute with the applicable procedural legislation. In particular, where the protection of human rights is exposed to the protection of personal data. Nor does it argue that our judiciary would not have fully-informed so-called enrollments, i.e. records of the state of affairs. That record, which the applicant points out in his proposal, are so-called criminal records, was from 1. 1. 2010 computerized. Thus, this need for further regulation has also fallen away. This record contains and merges 23 different records and, due to the processing of a set of sensitive personal data in the criminal record, it is so important that the highest standards, both legal and technical standards, are respected. However, the Government wishes to point out that the E-Justice project is a national project which is the main subject of the Slovenian judicial system's information strategy for the period 2008-2013. This project and this strategy were adopted by the previous government. This government is therefore merely continuing what has already been set up in the previous term. This is a good project, funded by the European Structural Fund, worth around €23 million and at the Ministry of Justice as coordinator of this project, together with the judiciary, including the Constitutional Court, coordinated by 26 different sub-projects in this context, which I will be able to say a little more below. In short, for all the reasons mentioned above, we do not consider that further regulatory regulation of this area is necessary because it is already appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u198	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal that we are considering today mainly brings about changes in the judiciary regarding electronic commerce, the informationisation of subscribers and electronic services. The full informationisation of the judiciary is, as has already been said, a goal to be pursued, but in the Group of Members, we are really as confident as the Government that the changes need to be addressed thoughtfully, otherwise there could be adverse consequences. It should be noted that the working groups operating within the framework of the Supreme Court record section and dealing with the informationisation of the individual register and other fields of the judiciary meet monthly and report on the progress of the individual project. We are convinced that the introduction of a system where the judge no longer works in paper form is a major and important step towards complete information. But we must not forget the day-to-day complications. Here we are constantly reminded that it is not only a transition to a new way of doing business in a technical sense, but a change of systemic importance. Among other things, the proposer only briefly describes the system of individual countries in the summary systems of comparative countries, while the information of the judicial systems of these countries, namely Austria, Germany and Belgium, unfortunately does not say anything. One of the proposed amendments is also the amendment to Article 70 of the Law on Courts, which is the extension of the competence of the Information Centre, which acts as a special organisational unit of the Supreme Court. In the view of the Group, however, the proposed changes in this direction are unnecessary and perhaps even problematic from the point of view of access to personal data. Furthermore, amendment 82a is proposed. Article where, for the purpose of transferring the management of information data to the information centre referred to above, information and information technology services. We are convinced that such management of personal data may be controversial, as these data are not necessary for the conduct of judicial proceedings or are not necessarily necessary and therefore their collection is controversial. Even more so because, as the draft article suggests, they are collected for the purpose of their intervention, not for the purpose of their use within the courts. It is therefore an infringement of the constitutional right to the protection of personal data, because we know that only the data that are appropriate and essential to the fulfilment of the legitimate purpose should be collected. Once again, we would like to point out that the purpose of the establishment of the computerised registers, particularly in relation to the personal data to be entered, is not constitutionally consistent. It must not be overlooked that this information is not necessarily necessary for the conduct of judicial proceedings, and this constitutes an unconstitutional intervention following the Constitutional Court's settled case-law. On this basis, we can conclude that the proposaler wishes to introduce into the text, on the basis of changes that appear to relate only to the complete informationisation of the judicial business, the non-constitutional collection and processing of personal data, and could also find the reasons why in the Group of Members we really oppose the proposed amendments to the law. Among other things, we believe that all those beneficiaries in the proposal already have the possibility of accessing such data under the current legislation, such as through personal examination of the judicial file or on the basis of a written request or request. In the Group of Members, we are truly aware that the electronic management of the judicial file and the electronic functioning of the courts is still an important objective to be achieved, but not in the way proposed today. That is why we will not support the amendments proposed in our Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Pukšič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u200	Once again a nice greeting, colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, Minister with co-workers! In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we support all efforts to help improve the situation in our courts. This, of course, also supports all the efforts that could help improve and improve the quality of life of our citizens and citizens. This, of course, also undermines all efforts to ensure that children have meals and young families in their homes. The introduction of information is certainly welcome, as this information will be easier and easier to access. If we were able to carry out information in civil procedures and if the court register could be largely informed, of course, it is also high time for the information of others and, above all, the criminal registers. While criminal registration information has been a good time in the implementation phase, electronic exchange with other records has not yet been established. It's obviously about some promises that the government coalition doesn't make. Again, in this case, the opposition proposed the possibility for the coalition to move things, but, as the government has said, they do not support it again. The proposal foresees that the introduction of the proposed amendments would increase the quality and efficiency of judicial work, which is logical, through informationisation, thus simplifying and reducing procedures and simplifying the monitoring of efficiency. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, this simplification seems welcome, as well as monitoring of judicial backlogs and obsolete deadlines. Unfortunately, some things reach an expiry date, but we fear that this is not just the case, but another key that should not or should not be present anywhere in the rule of law. But we would be even more happy and pleased if the backlogs were simply reduced. It is abnormal for some to wait for a few years to discuss. I've been looking at some information in the archives, but I haven't been able to read it before; it's been 12 or 13 years before it's even started. Incomprehensible! So, the proposal of the law seems worthy of our support, because it is intended for the benefit of all those who, at the expense of the poor situation in the judiciary, are no longer heavily trusted. The backlog and, if you want, the overload of the courts and other problems in the judiciary are already greatly undermining people's confidence in the so-called - now I will ask rhetorically - either one legal state or something else, which, of course, we find very disturbing in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. The sweats, as the minister said, are different. However, the government simply does not support anything, but unfortunately there is no way to solve it. We will support the law in the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u202	Dear Mr. President. Mr. Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. The main purpose and purpose of the proposed amendment of the Law on Courts is to make the work of the courts more comprehensive, information-supported, in order to shorten the duration of the proceedings. The applicants consider it appropriate to establish a regulatory framework for the proposed solution, focusing on the area of criminal registrations. Members of the DeSUS do not object to the conclusion that informing individual court proceedings, court records and information is necessary and necessary at all these times, as it is possible to proceed more quickly, more effectively and more transparently in all areas. Certainly, the establishment of such a system in the field of justice or justice is of paramount importance. For this reason, I believe it is well-intentioned, we welcome the proposal, but, as the Government has found and has also explained, this matter is not subject to legal regulation, but rather to sub-legislative rules, more specifically, implementing rules and strategies. In doing so, I should simply point out that it has been for some time now been the responsibility of this professionally trained staff to inform the judiciary, and that it is by no means possible that the judicial staff should go out of their way in the sense that the latter are not being used in a more modern electronic manner. On the contrary! In recent years, much has been done in this area, so that the electronic management of the individual case and the electronic functioning of the courts is already a practice. Nevertheless, when introducing more modern technology in this area, we need to be extremely careful in terms of protecting the confidentiality of personal data, since at first glance a fantastic solution can be completely lacking. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposal is not designed to be able to receive our support, so we will not support DeSUS Members or vote in accordance with our belief that the bill is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u204	Thank you, Mr. President. The Honourable Minister. The proposed novel is intended to establish a regulatory framework for the establishment of information for individual court registrations in all proceedings before the courts. Procedures will be simplified and, as a result, reduced, and monitoring of judicial backlogs and obsolete deadlines will be simplified. In short, e-commerce brings more comprehensive information to procedures from submission to conclusion and more effective access to court e-services, thus increasing the quality and efficiency of justice. It will be possible to follow the path of the file, which is very important to us in the Slovenian National Party and the role of the parties, and it will also be easier to identify which stage they are at. As we see, the aim of the projects is to fully inform the work of the courts, which clearly reduces the duration of the proceedings themselves. The functionalities involved for citizens, businesses and other institutions, as well as the simplification of electronic service, investment and records, have so far simplified procedures that have been all the more appropriate in current practice. As we can see, the funds for the update between 2005 and 2008 were paid in advance of this year and provide the expected results with the added value of the funds invested. The government programme on national development projects for the period 2007-2023 is one of the main tasks and is ambitious, but is not impossible to achieve and achieve the objectives set. The removal of paper business by 2013 in courts is certainly a challenge in the technological field and ambitious assistance for the functioning and efficiency of courts and improving the quality of courts, which is particularly important for reducing backlogs in individual court proceedings. The positive effects of the amendment will also be reflected in the more transparent conduct of proceedings, in faster trials, which is also the right of parties to proceedings, which is often violated, since the right to a trial without undue delay is a basic category since 1991, and the exercise of rights within a reasonable period, in accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights, is necessary and unavoidable to ensure legal certainty in the Republic of Slovenia. The new law is appropriate and we will also support it in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u205	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The reason for amending the Law on Courts should be in the establishment of a normative framework for the establishment of information for the individual court registries of all proceedings before the courts, thereby increasing the quality and efficiency of work in the judiciary, as procedures should be simplified and reduced as a result of the information provided by the courts and the monitoring of efficiency should be simplified. Monitoring of judicial backlogs and obsolete deadlines will be simplified due to the introduction of IT. The applicant shall in particular specify the area of criminal records whose information has not yet been carried out according to his information. We do not support the bill because the proposed solution cannot be subject to legal regulation, but can only be part of implementing rules and strategies. The strategy for the development of computer support in court operations under the Law on Courts is laid down by the Board of Users for Computer Support of Court Information based on the previous opinion of the Director of the Centre for Informatics at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposer shall, by amending paragraph 4 of Article 70, assign new powers and tasks to the Information Technology Centre and the Information Services, in particular with regard to the transmission of informationised records. That competence is of a distinctly substantive nature and is contrary to procedural legislation which restricts the examination of the file to a specific set of people. It shall be approved by the judge who examines the matter or by the President of the Court. The Centre for Informatics shall provide only technical conditions for the transmission of data in electronic form and in electronic form, but not for the transmission of data itself. For the management of individual informationised court records, it is the responsibility of the recorders and not the IT service in individual courts. The identification data, as indicated by the applicant in Article 3 of the draft law, are already defined in the records in which they are kept, such as the Central Population Register, the Register of Tax Numbers, Court Registers and so on, and therefore there is no need for re-identification. Informationised judicial records are linked to those records from which the necessary identification data are obtained. We will not support this bill in the Liberal Democrats' Chamber because we firmly believe that this law will not improve the work of the courts, nor will we reduce the judicial backlog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u207	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u208	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Members of the Social Democrats will not be supported by the bill. We believe that the arguments he gave us to oppose the law of the Council of Justice are worth serious consideration. The Council of Justice draws our attention to the constitutional contentious provision of Article 82a, which prescribes information which the Information Centre and the Information Technology Service are supposed to provide on individual participants, for information which would be very sensitive to natural persons, and which would be guided in judicial proceedings that would allow such personal data to be made public, which could be contrary to Article 38 of the Constitution and also contrary to the Convention on the Protection of Data with regard to the Automatic Processing of Data. In violation of the Constitution, as we are warned, the provision of data to the public without the knowledge of the judge, since the judge in charge of the individual case is personally responsible for the information to be made public and does not want to be taken over by the employees in the IT centre. In addition, the notices given to us by the Council of Justice and also by the Ministry that the transition to the electronic management of the minutes, except in criminal matters, is expected in the near future, as well as in criminal matters over the next few years, is encouraging and does not indicate the negative attitude that the judiciary would have and the Council of Justice does not expect me in the parliamentary group to provide the necessary information on the records in the judiciary. However, we believe that it is necessary to prepare them patiently, thoughtfully, in order to avoid the abuse of personal data. These are the fundamental reasons why we believe that the judicial information process will be successful and that the proposed law at this stage is not suitable for support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u209	Thank you. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u210	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, the rest are present! On 12 October 2006, the former Government adopted a Resolution on national development projects for the period 2007 to 2023, and one of the main tasks of this resolution is to connect the services of the institutional environment with technological innovation, which is also one of the main objectives of the justice system information strategy for the period 2008-2013, as we have heard many times today. It is encouraging that this is not one of those projects, the 13th of the 35th, which has recently been lined by the current government, and that this project has remained. By 2013, any paper business must be abolished in the courts, and any court information must be accessible electronically and electronically, and the court software should enable it to obtain quality information to monitor the work of judges and judicial staff, out-of-date staff and backlogs for the purposes of an effective organisation of the judiciary and the internal affairs of the courts. Electronic commerce in judicial proceedings is a challenge in the technological field, but as a support to the professional court and administrative work, it is intended to improve the efficiency of the courts, improve the quality of decision-making and reduce backlogs in individual court proceedings. We probably agree with this, as well as with the fact that the information supported work with the registers in the form of a centralised data management system and the documents of an organisation allows support to the business process and the workflow of documents in order to make the paper business as much as possible a substitute for electronic investment, electronic data exchange, electronic views in foreign records, electronic service and so on. The aim of all these projects is to fully inform the work of the courts, which can shorten the duration of the proceedings. Informed registrations, full use of electronic commerce in court and between parties and courts have been introduced or need to be introduced. And this informationing of the recorders and process also allows easy monitoring of efficiency, backlogs and outdated deadlines. It is important that no additional funding is allocated to this process under the law that we are proposing, since budgets for 2010 and 2011 already provide and provide for some more than €4 million in 2010 and some more than €3 million in 2011. Indirectly, the adoption of this law would also have a positive financial impact on the state budget, due to the greater efficiency of the courts, which would result in several cases being resolved. This would reduce the number of cases of lawsuits over an unreasonable period and would reduce the number of cases still dealt with by the European Court of Human Rights, which has already received more than 200 judgments relating to Slovenia by that period. In most cases, compensations relating to the failure to exercise the right to a trial within a reasonable time period must be paid by the Republic of Slovenia or paid by taxpayers. The proposal for this law would therefore have a positive impact in the context of the informationisation of individual court registrations - the informationisation of these registrations will have positive effects due to the more transparent management of the proceedings - and, of course, on the reduction of judicial backlogs. This right to a trial without undue delay has been a constitutional category for some time now, at least since 1991 and in all this period has been severely violated. It has been more detailed on procedures and criteria for its protection and on fair satisfaction in cases of infringement by law which it regulated in 2006. The solution we are proposing is also necessary to ensure legal certainty and ensure the exercise of this right in accordance with Article 23 of the Constitution and Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. However, it is not possible to go beyond another area in which these legal solutions are indirectly affected in some way, and this is a greater transparency of procedures. Surely this transparency would be enhanced by upgrading informationisation and individual cases would be eliminated when the public wonders how it is possible for a court to decide relatively quickly in some proceedings - we have heard, in some cases even one day or one month, and in other cases no decision can be taken in similar cases for a year or a year. There are many cases where people die before they get legal satisfaction. More and more, especially in the last term, there are cases of people being tried without being tried and convicted in public and de facto, and in time it turns out that they are not guilty. In these cases, a judgment after five or ten years does not mean anything and is a mockery of the rule of law. This is also one of the reasons why this law should be proposed for adoption. One reason to propose this law is also the recent case of the so-called Baričevič affair, where a man who has been bitten by dogs almost to death, wandering for four years in courts, has been subjected to various forms of bullying, has given up on the rule of law, and is likely to wonder every day when he listens to some, as the only legal path is. When they step on this path, they relentlessly beat the rule of law with every word and every act they do. How else can it be that after more than four years in this case he has been deprived of minimum legal satisfaction and, on the other hand, has been able to take some legal proceedings in such a way as to pass the applicable legal rules and pass the applicable legal laws in their favour. Another important element of this law is the speeding up of matters. We are confident that, despite the fact that it may seem impossible for anyone to speed up the adoption of this law, it would also have an effect on the resolution of matters in individual cases, and thus, of course, would have slowly reached the goal for which, as I hear, you are all taking your stand, but obviously only with words and with a fig in your pocket - the abolition of judicial backlogs. It is incomprehensible that Slovenia has the highest number of judges per thousand among European countries and that it has the largest judicial backlog - despite this fact. What's the problem? Probably concerns those who have been given a mandate by the National Assembly to exercise the right of trial, including to exercise the right of trial within a reasonable time. When we heard in the National Assembly a little while ago about how we must eliminate unconstitutional situations and how we must respect human rights, I feel that some of these rights understand very segmented and conditionally with individual such or different groups, which is bad. One of the fundamental human rights that is violated every day and every day more is the right to a trial within a reasonable time. If the adoption of this law meant a small step on this path, then the government would also be expected to support it. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we support this bill's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u211	Thank you. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Dr. Gorenak spoke on behalf of the motioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, you know what my basic desire is: to find out where the constitution says about the independence and independence of prosecutors who have been violated by Mrs Brezigareva, but this is not today's subject matter, so I must not ask you that question. However, I thank you for the positive move or for your final evaluation there at the performance, when you said that the E-Justice project was a good move by the previous government. Although this is very difficult to hear from you, I really thank you for such a positive assessment. Look, I'm gonna go through what the forerunners said. See, that the Supreme Court opposes or that the Council of Justice opposes - yes, because that is the case. We have already adopted several laws in the National Assembly, where these two institutions - both of them or only one - objected, but we have adopted these laws. Thus, I do not know, for example, if the law were to be supplemented for the sake of the coalition in the event that it would go to a second reading, which it would otherwise like, it would also be possible to further coordinate with the two institutions of the judiciary. However, I am a little afraid of what Mr Rožej was talking about and what you were talking about - you were talking about this imbalance between the protection of human rights and the protection of personal data. If we transfer the situation under this law to another law, this is a bankruptcy law that once had protection provisions that once protected or at least did not have public data on bankruptcy awards and many other matters, and I do not know whether it was also defined as personal data protection or not. But I think that the law has brought about when we made this information public in the previous term, despite the problems you have, I know that you have them, but in the country this law has brought at least that we know what was going on, and that today you and finally Parliament can talk about it with these meetings around bankruptcy managers. If the legal provisions had not been made public, published on the websites of the YPPES, they would not have talked about it at all, but these gentlemen would have put it in their pocket. In this area, I advocate that if you believe that some information here needs to be changed, that some article needs to be supplemented, that it is not well written. Last but not least, you have professional services, there is no parliamentary group, then I ask you to support the marriage in the second reading, and we will fix the matter together. Mr Rozej said that the collection of certain data was unnecessary, that it was even unconstitutional and so on and that the law needed to be amended, but not in this way. I invite him, as I invite the Desus Group, Mr Urh, to sit together next week and complete the law. We do not claim anywhere in the SDS Group to be the most intelligent in this world, far from that. Let us sit down and supplement it, for there is no prohibition that any coalition group can also participate in the drafting of the law. I also invite Mr Potsch and SD, where you said that the law as it is is is not appropriate. I invite you, let's sit together and fill it out. There may be some law that will have broad support for everyone in this House. I also invite the minister with me. Why not? What do I have to tell you? What I'm trying to say is that it's not necessary for you to reject everything that comes from the opposition. I am well aware of the answers to your parliamentary questions in the previous term, but I think that they were, in particular, by the SD, probably by others, I kind of remember Mr Potrč, I think that you who were in one of the questions of the previous Prime Minister were kind of sharp, said in short and protested in some way that the then government was rejecting many of the laws you are preparing and so on. I don't feel like things would be any better today. That's not an omen to you. The question of dispatch is a question of question. But I have no feeling the situation would be better. I think the situation is even worse. According to the amount of laws we're preparing, many are, in my opinion, good. We will also have one of these in the next phase, and we will probably put in some more, but you refuse them after the current tape. It is not good that you do this for a fundamental reason, because there is some impression that I should tell you, Your Highness, if you know everything, you know nothing that is not true. In short, I invite you to supplement the law and to vote that the law is suitable for second reading and let it be supplemented, no problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u213	Thank you. Do you have a replica? Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u214	I would like to explain my position to Mr Gorenak. I, Mr Gorenak, agree that today the situation is worse. I may have been in my question to the First Minister and Prime Minister of the Government harshly. You are, not you personally, but your parliamentary group, but you are, as a rule, rude to the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u215	Thanks for the intermezzo. Mr. Jelinčič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Saiovic. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Miro Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I would really appreciate it if this marriage were adopted or if this marriage was supported by the coalition, on the other hand, I would be surprised if I really did not support it because it does bring a variety of good things. The law follows certain positive objectives and principles, namely the principle of cost-effectiveness and effective action, the principle of legal certainty of the parties, the principle of speed of proceedings before the courts, the principle of openness or technological neutrality, non-discrimination of electronic form, the principle of the protection of personal data. Yesterday, I asked the Minister of Justice a question from the Members about small courts, small district courts which are ineffective, many administrations, on the other hand few judges, three, four, five and the Minister also agreed with me. These are the courts where judges also have to deal with administration, they do a lot of work on foot, they do a lot of paperwork, and they're less involved in what they should be dealing with, that's with expertise. True, they do, but they don't have that much time to study case-by-case practice. E-Justice can sort of sort of sort of handle it. It is about ensuring that judicial procedures are more effective through information and communication means. Today, something has also been said here about the public and the protection of personal data. The trial on behalf of the people is public and I do not know why we would not continue to disseminate the public principle accordingly. Of course, to a certain limit, to a limit when it does not interfere with human rights. Here I agree, here we must be delicate, here we must be careful and also in this principle followed by this law, the principle of the protection of personal data, followed by the rules established in Slovenia and in the European Union. However, this information is also possible to track individual cases and this is certainly good. However, as far as the information of the minutes is concerned, this should already apply to us, this should be something self-evident in view of the time we live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u217	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u218	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. After all, there is nothing to add to what has already been said, but nevertheless, since we have repeatedly listened, from the SDS Group, to the preparation of individual proposals on the basis of incompetence on the part of law-makers and the lack of legal knowledge, I would like to say that the proposed amendment is a typical example of a non-professional legal proposal with content that cannot be the substance of legal regulation, but only the substance of the implementing rules. At the same time, there is an extremely inappropriate way of managing, better said, manipulation, personal data that is not in accordance with the Constitution and regulations adopted even at international legal level. I am sure that even the proponents of all these shortcomings are aware of each other, and therefore one wonders what all this play we are witnessing today is about. It is likely that, in order to rediscover a new aspect, there has been a number of overcrowding about which of the last affairs in our country and thus we cannot sit on such purposes and waste time and money for such mistreatment in the National Assembly. We cannot support such a bill in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u219	Thank you. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u220	Thank you very much. In fact, a person gets sad when he hears it from one side to the other, and somehow yesterday, I don't know why, I don't know, at some point, he thought that maybe the Prime Minister of the Government had a meeting with his coalition and they talked about not everything coming from the opposition would attack him as arrogant as incompetent, in the sense that you don't know anything, I don't know, you just want publicity. And of course we know everything, we have a strategy, we have, I don't know what. Yesterday, the President of the Government admitted here that the use of European funds does not really go in the right direction. First time he's admitted it. I would expect that this would also involve at least a few Members and Members of Parliament. To tell us and, of course, to always evaluate the opposition that it is rude, that I do not know what it is. For God's sake, the one-party system has been over for 20 years. The right to be in opposition and to point out irregularities and, of course, to propose solutions, not only to criticize, but also to say how you would solve a matter, but I think the minimum of democracy in democratic countries. You know, with such a proposal, with such an amendment to the Law on Courts, we would do it for the first time, secondly, thirdly, 118th and so forth, just a sort of order where certain things could not be skipped. We'll remember. In a few months, we're judging if someone decides to go somewhere, unfortunately by the political line, not by the professional line, because it's 168th or 350th turn, and the rest stays in drawers so long that things get old, we have too much of that, there's too much of that. I only remember the damage to social property when I led the investigative commission, what you were doing at the time, and what you were doing, despite the conclusion that everything in accordance with the Rules of Procedure was done with the law, and we are not because you have prevented from dealing with certain things in the National Assembly from being in a position of power. This is now repeated, from a position of power you prevent, however, some law prepared by the opposition from moving forward in any direction and to supplement it. You know, by chance, everything can't be completely useless and completely useless by the opposition, and you're just so horizontal about simply rejecting and attacking the opposition. For the second year, you have authority in your hands, and something shocking has happened. In a positive sense there is nothing, but unfortunately there is too much and too much. And what is the quality of the lives of our people, at least we are among them and we are one of them. But it's true that those who drive private planes to Milan after buying shoes, blouses and so on, that they really don't see it and they don't feel it, really, I agree that you don't. But it's true that these people stand in front of the cameras and talk about morality, about socialism, about the rule of law, and I don't know what else. The question arises where some of these assets come from. A year and a half, again after 12 years, you're back in power. We could do something about it, at least one case, but not what's going on, some law enforcement authorities really want to do and expose things to the end, because that's what the President of the Government said, you want, you want, you want, and you're blocking it from your position of power. This was also said here in this house by these law enforcement institutions. Let's back it up. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u221	Thank you. Mrs. Irgle. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Blackach, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Slovenia is a social and legal country, according to Article 2 of the Constitution. In that first part, you could say, for now. In the other one, less and less. What does it mean because it is enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that Slovenia is a state of law? Or maybe that means, as it happened six years ago, or seven years ago, when a judicial official was in the closet when he was released, and after long suffering, he was released, a closet was opened and unsolvable writings poured out of it. Is this a legal state? Has this official ever been responsible for his actions or for his wrongdoing? It's not. He's a respected lawyer now. Advocate of the largest offenders in the field of economic crime. Effective because none of those who defend them have ever seen the hand of justice and apparently will never be, for if, as a judicial or prosecutor, he has been successful in keeping the files, then he is obviously successful now in another area in such a way that the writings being processed by the courts will never be seen by the epilogue or will be seen by them when things get old. Is this the rule of law? Did the rule of law mean that someone who was almost killed four years ago could not even make it through the first stage in court? And as it turns out, it never will be, because he obviously has no right advocates. Whether it is the rule of law that some people who are unable to pay water supplies in social distress, some rents, some rents, because they have lost their jobs or for other reasons experienced enforcement in courts, are legally binding. And because the judicial backlogs in the field of executives had not been made, and these executions had not been processed until ten years, and because the late interest had run past the height of the principal and the twenty years owed the sum, they were without all. Without everything! In my office, someone who can work has recently come forward, he was a craftsman, a good craftsman, and he is, excuse the expression, currently a bum who has no roof over his head, because this state of law has protected him so that he did not get paid for his work on the one hand, and the tax office was able to recover from him for what he did not get paid. With all the legitimate late payment, he's lost everything. And I'm not sure I'm going to be in police custody tomorrow because I helped him. I admit, I helped him have a roof over his head today. So there's no mistake. I didn't even have a cappuccino with him. I'm not sure. I'm getting more and more confident of the opposite. This is in 2010 Slovenia! This is the legal state on paper, ladies and gentlemen. And that's why we're responsible for all of us sitting in the National Assembly, all of us, including me. That's why I have to say that today I'm a little embarrassed to be sitting here, but even more so should be the shame of those who mock me and those who mock outside this room when they listen. Since these are not funny questions, these are serious questions about where this society is going and how it will go forward or back in the years to come. And this law that we have on the table today is really a small stone on the way to people starting to have a little more confidence in this country and also in this system as a whole, especially in the justice system. Because, not blinding yourself, this trust, you know, with these last police performances in the form of the protection of the rule of law, because former ministers and Members are involved, you will not create. People aren't so seduced that they don't understand why they're doing this. Especially when they learn that it all began on the basis of an accusation made by someone who is on the average with the law and who was obviously somehow motivated by such or otherwise purpose. Perhaps even with someone like you, Mr Minister, you spoke last time, if we're going to get some lump, we just have to allow another lump to be released from one piece of criminal proceedings, and then we'll have at least one, if we don't lose both. I'm not saying, maybe in this case it happened, or even it will, or it already has, maybe it's already signed. I suppose, I suppose, given that I'm not allowed to be familiar with complete information, but I doubt that anyone who's up to their necks in some kind of trouble would do what they did out of some kindness to provide the rule of law. And if this law had at least a small impact on people starting to feel that the actual system is working quickly, that it works differently, that things are going on, that they will not wait 5, 10, 15 or 20 years for their right, then we have achieved the purpose we wanted to achieve by proposing this law. And because of this, I am surprised that there is one relatively small change, such opposition to this change. I think it would be right for such a law to be supported and other solutions proposed by the Government to allow Slovenia to be finally deleted from the list of countries with the greatest judicial backlogs, despite the fact that it has the largest number of judges, partially speaking, to the number of residents in our neighbourhood. That's why I'm going to support this marriage myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u223	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u224	Thank you very much. My purpose used to be extremely good. That's why I'm also in some way, it can be seen from the mimic that even after the intonation of what someone has in mind, even though I've experienced such an attack back, my purpose has not been so. That's why I'm gonna be a little sharper now. It's not my fault or my fault if they have to sit here as the duty-holders of an individual parliamentary group. We are discussing a law that, if you criticize it as much as you criticize it, at least filled the time, respected four coalition MPs or as many as I no longer see you in the Chamber, the schedule of the National Assembly is designed to deal with these laws today at the empty hall because it is purposefully done. Another issue in this regard is that we are probably at the historic shortest meeting of the National Assembly, which would be even shorter if there were no such laws. Now for the content. As far as justice is concerned as a whole, not just this part of the topic that we are discussing more or less today, I think that we must all be aware that it is at the point, in fact, that it has never been good and has never supported what justice systems in other countries normally support, and these are quick decisions, effective decisions. In our country, they're waiting for their rights for years and years. And if you think that's a good thing, unfortunately, you're wrong. Important economic operators cannot act, even because of the judicial and judicial backlogs, while we already know that we have the most judges, but they are not guilty, the system is to blame, which we are changing too slowly, including electronically, what we are talking about today. Yeah, for God's sake, I guess we're still in the Stone Age. I got my first computer on the force in 1985, my beloved. What about the courts? A few years ago or today you might even see some typewriter, maybe, I said. Not to talk about it, so that these things have to go on, but they're not going. And whatever we bring to the National Assembly, not only in this area, but also in other areas, is worthy of contempt because it is from the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, you too will be the opposition, unless you have any other intentions, I don't know. And if we see each other at that time and if there is any indication that they are refusing to let you be in such a situation at that time, don’t be surprised. We certainly do not argue that the solutions that we have proposed are excellent and brilliant, by no means, I reiterate. The Ministry has professional services that can prepare a law that can be corrected, which can be "fractured", let's say in their own way, and let's not contradict it. However, the opposition is not obliged to tolerate insults if any solution in marriage is not good. The insults were said a little earlier. And that's unfair and that's unfair. Where a coalition doesn't do something and the opposition tries to do something, it gets insults, it's not right and it's not fair. The economic operators of this country probably feel the most that we all feel then, the problem of indecisiveness or misjudgment in the courts. Now I am not going to talk about what my colleague Chernač said, and I could also say that someone has been waiting for justice for five years, but not waiting for her, I mean Mr Meglic. And that someone decides in one day, they get it all back. This law also prevents situations where it would be explicitly clear that no one can abuse the system by taking something from the bottom of the drawer and putting something more on the top and putting something more down to make it obsolete, but something will be decided sooner, because someone who is important, which has a political influence that has a financial impact, which has an economic impact, will first be in turn. But if you're a nebula and you have a few hundred stitches, it doesn't matter, but it's easy at the bottom. It's not just cases like this. We talked to an information officer today about another situation. And she says she's been waiting three years in the Administrative Court for her cases to be resolved. Three years! Then how can someone in the same court be on the same day? That's it! It's about someone having influence, power and money. If you have influence, power and money, you buy a client. [[The ad in the hall.]] You'll have a chance to say. So, once again, the purposes of this law are good. We're not saying he's perfect. And all those of you who have talked about not being able to support him at this point in time, that he has this, that one, that one - invited to amend! Who says we can't fix this? You can write your comments and we'll fix it ourselves. But don't kill him today or tomorrow by voting and rejecting him, and then say we're proposing the same laws. As far as I'm concerned, we'll make another suggestion. Let's just say he can't go to law school just like that. And, of course, we're going to deal with them at a night session. Well, well, now at least we have a TV3 that can handle it. In the future, however, or it seems likely that by means of appropriate law, we will also ban this from the Slovenians. And that's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u225	Thank you. Mr. Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you! We have before us a retrial of the opposition party, this time again of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which, by means of our law, proposes an improvement in one of the areas in the judiciary that we believe are not best settled. We meet here again and again with the government's interpretations. The law is not appropriate, because some matters are not regulated in a comprehensive manner, the law is not appropriate because it is governed by the regulations of law, the law cannot be adopted, because we must first adopt a resolution and hear similar matters in the National Assembly by government representatives, ministers and such are also likely or unlikely, but also the Government's views which are submitted in writing to the matter under consideration. In this case, however, it may be appropriate to adopt a resolution first on the way in which the files are brought to justice in order to provide, by a declaration, that they must be transparent, public, that they must ensure that these criminal and other matters are dealt with, in order, as the cases are filed. Then we'd make the law, and then we'd make the law. And then we'd make the law. But obviously the coalition is doing these things differently. And here, in fact, we continue to face different interpretations of these matters, the necessity of procedures, etc. On the other hand, we are faced with a number of accusations that the opposition is the one blocking the coalition's functioning that prevents the coalition from being effective in order to translate measures, improvements, counter-crisis measures, judicial measures and similar measures. None of this holds. If the government coalition, if the government, with its ministers, departments and several thousand employees, were to act consistently enough if there were enough cooperation in this government coalition, the opposition would not actually come forward with any proposals. I wouldn't, because I couldn't, because our few ten Members and some small group of experts are certainly not able to compete with government services in quantity and probably in content. However, frankly, in this space, in this mandate things happen extremely slowly, there is a great deal of speech, contention and other matters and opposition, despite the fact that it does not have a voting majority, that it does not have a large professional apparatus behind it, is actually much faster than the Government, government service and also as a coalition in all these attempts. What is even more interesting, the measures proposed by the opposition parties are usually such that they run into wider public support. Many of the counter-crisis measures that we have proposed with our package, as well as other matters. I think that if we also wish to discuss this law from the public's point of view, we should also conduct a survey among the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, for example, whether they agree that the applicants are also public in criminal proceedings. I think this poll was very interesting. I am sure that many people would not support the solution advocated by the Ministry that the minutes of these criminal proceedings are closed, to cover that no one is looking at them. Only in such a way, only such a procedure allows for these, I will say, interpretations to appear in this justice system that certain proceedings against some or for the benefit of some may be conducted in a different way than would be normal, as would be the case in the order of order, or the filing of requests and matters. That's what makes it possible. This also allows that there is, in fact, no transparent public control in this area, so that we can see which judge is the one who is delaying a judgment that is, I don't know, more or less receptive and so on. We don't want any small things and views here, but some of those procedural things, which are necessary for the public to be informed about them, probably just to be opened. I am convinced that the cover-up or the non-disclosure of the subscribers are fundamental grounds that we cannot provide a legal way in this country. The right path is not ensured in this way because there is no control over this event. I remember that a few years ago, I think five, six years ago we had here in our country at a visit by a German judge who assessed the quality and effectiveness of our judiciary, and this judge, I think, wrote Dukoff, eventually prepared a report under this project, I think it was even a pre-accession project for the European Union. And, oddly enough, somehow the loudest critic of this report was our current justice minister. I think he even responded publicly and criticised a German judge who came from another legal culture to Slovenia to examine how and what could be improved in our justice system. Interesting. And now those who criticize, say, a judge who is probably in the German judiciary valued, which is also effective, in fact those who have on the other hand allowed for judicial backlogs and so on, criticise someone who has come from a successful system to say what is bad and recommend which matters should be settled. I think there is still a lot to be done in this area. Information on this part of the judiciary should also be completed by the end of 2008. These processes had not been completed by then, some deadlines had been extended, and there must have been a reason. If the other parts of the judiciary - so I read and have been so informed - are informed and that only this fundamental part has remained uninformed, then the question is already raised why this information is not possible in this area. However, I recall that budgetary resources have already been made available in the previous mandate, as well as for 2010 and 2011. And the process is standing and it's not being realized. In the absence of transparency in these cases, it is also possible that the rights of those in these criminal proceedings cannot be successfully realized either on the part of the defendants or on the part of those accused. The rights of one and the other are violated. Many cases, many infringements, when all these procedural options are exhausted and they end up in the Court of Justice of the European Communities, and from there we receive shipments that are, in addition to paying the fines, those penalties that are likely to be imposed are still subject to additional penalties. So, penalty for delay, penalty for penalty. And from this point of view, if there was any minimum interest in this coalition, we should probably support such a law, because the formation of the penalty is not in the interests of the coalition, not in the interest of the budget, but perhaps it is in the interest of someone else, especially those for whom there is one, I can say, the coalition interest that the process is outdated and shut down. In the previous mandate, thorough information and demobilization were also carried out in other areas. Slovenia has actually progressed extremely well in this area, has also received recognition from the United Nations and I think that this was a good project, an excellent project, because this EU administration has seized and has certainly produced very good results. Interestingly, though, there was a stain left in this part, an unfinished area. The Minister, who, in this mandate, has proven to be so many premature amendments to certain laws that he could not wait or wait, for example, for the Constitutional Court's decisions under one of the laws we had, is delaying and delaying the proceedings here and does not support the solutions we are proposing to improve and regulate this area. It is certainly true that we do not know everything, as one of my colleagues has said, but unfortunately, those who know it, those who have the power to do it, but those who do not know it better, that they do not want it to be better, that they do not want it in this area, that they contribute, that things improve, that transparency improves, that transparency improves and improves. Here we are still faced with cases where, in fact, for difficult reasons to explain in the same process, when a case like this happened, and on the one hand, some private interest of one, perhaps not even the owner of dogs realizes so, I would say, after some by-products with so many intermediate phases, that it leads to some for the public and professional, majority part also of the profession, a kind of unreasonable decision that ultimately brings some tragic consequences. On the other hand, victims of the same animals may not be able to reach the first treatment for a year and a year. This is difficult to explain, but obviously in our judiciary these options exist, apparently certain things are allowed to take advantage of, at some point in fact, the privilege of knowledge, of some customer circle, which is connected, after some political routes, family salaries, after business cooperation, this is no problem and all these matters are regulated by reduced procedures. We have even heard that the decisions have not yet been issued and there have been complaints. In some other procedures, however, you can take initiatives, demand priority treatment or anything else, and nothing happens in this process. It's like she's gone. And I think it should probably be one of the priorities of this government, this government coalition. We want these things to be carried out transparently if we want the processes and procedures to take place in such a way that the interests of the parties in the proceedings are protected, and then this part, so far closed in the judiciary, needs to be opened. I do not, in any case, agree with the coalition Members, with the Minister, with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in fact, I do not understand why this part of the entries, which is still the only one left unannounced, does not become public. I don't know what your interests are in this. Do not the commitments under the coalition agreement or the commitment made to this floor by the highest representatives of the Government and the Prime Minister hold?Oh, my God! Were these commitments that were made only for the sake of the pear?Oh, my God! Or the words spoken in the National Assembly have weight, followed by the President of the Government, followed by his ministerial team and followed by a coalition. It's probably not possible to change attitudes, views, decisions, or anything else from one case to another. If some processes are to run, things are to be done, transparently and so on, then what has been said in this high assembly, as some would like to say, should then be implemented as soon as possible. Unfortunately, all too often this implementation of big words in the National Assembly has been postponed and suppressed into the future. I suggest that all those who have any ideas about the law that has been introduced, which could contribute anything else to the text, to complement the articles so that you can contribute your share. However, the prerequisite for this is that we agree primarily on what we have in front of us. First, the law is at first reading and in this consideration we are discussing the reasons for the adoption of the law and the principles, objectives and main solutions of the bill. This is said to be the case if we do not support the law at this stage of the hearing, but talk about the public recorders, then we do not support the basic objective of the law. Then we told these citizens who are watching us, what our interests are. This is the subject of a general discussion, or stage of consideration, of the procedure that we have in the National Assembly. If we do not support the law, then we do not agree with the principle of law. If we do not support the law, we do not agree with the basic solution of the law. And I would like to hear the reasons, the legitimate reasons that prevent the coalition from supporting these fundamental solutions that we have in this law. In particular, we are talking about the need for the criminal recorders to be informed in criminal proceedings, and also to a certain stage transparent and in some ways public. This makes it possible for anyone, especially the minister, who also has great powers as regards the supervision of the work of judges, in fact to be of significantly better quality, to exercise a supervisory function. Unfortunately, I note that this supervisory institute is only used in some cases, even some open procedures, but not where it is actually necessary. I am very interested, Minister, in which I ask the public: Why is there no suspension of the supervisory review in the administrative court in the case of a judgment allowing the return of these Bulmastifs? In this case, why was no supervision of the work determined, over the decision of the Administrative Court? The proceedings are closed, the judgment is public, the consequences are obvious. We know who participated in this decision, etc. Why is there no judicial review in this case? We also know that this judicial decision in the Administrative Court was adopted on the basis of a law which did not apply, by reference to provisions of a law which did not apply. And in this case, interestingly and surprisingly, there is no control. Nothing. There's nothing going on in the media, no phone calls, no letters, no one's called to account, et cetera. Interestingly, no question was raised by the coalition on this subject, interestingly. In some other cases, when it came to hearings in other courts, in other branches of the judiciary, questions and decisions and proceedings were raised, intervention in open cases, in proceedings that were not concluded. You can all check that out. This last intervention, mentioned by the Minister when some internal changes occurred in the Attorney General's Office, was an intervention in a procedure that was not completed. And interestingly, these cases are why some have received so much wealth that when the top Slovenian lawyers, at least I have them for them, find that this judgment was not adopted on the right basis that even the President of the Administrative Court doubts or even publicly declares that this judgment was not true and nothing has happened. It's interesting. Perhaps Minister Zalar will know more about why, he decides so arbitrarily, so selectively. For example, in the procedure that he intervened, there were no consequences, nothing, something was supposed to happen, in some other procedures there were even some tragic consequences. Madam President, I would like to ask if you would remind some of the Social Democrats to leave the speaker with the most opposition parties to express their views, their views, their views on the things that are going on in this exciting time. I'd like to ask nicely. I did not disturb any of the ladies on the other side when they performed, and I expect that this will be your conduct at the level of the size of your parliamentary group and status; which you have in the National Assembly. Sir, I would certainly suggest that the Minister and the Government reconsider their position on the proposed law. I think that the changes that we are proposing are necessary to make the changes that we are proposing urgent, and that these are changes that will certainly lead to greater transparency, greater transparency and easier supervision by the Minister, who is so keenly interested in individual matters in judicial proceedings. I do not know why any judicial supervision was not determined in the case of Jankovic, who stands unknown where. It's funny, we know this is very funny, but it's interesting, things have been there for a long time. Probably because things aren't transparent. Because things aren't going any other way. Besides, I know I went from this lawsuit to another part, to the prosecution, but things happen at different levels. And I would just like to draw this comparison that some of the cases being dealt with in the prosecutions are received, because such an initiative is from coalition parties, whether this administrative or judicial supervision, but in some other cases where it is publicly highlighted as important delays, this treatment is not the same. And it's exactly the same in the courtroom. There is no problem of judicial review in a court of law for a minor case, but the problem is, for example, a review by the Administrative Court, which adopted a judgment and thus allowed for very serious consequences. And I understand that such cases and the authors of such judgments must be protected at the highest level. I'd like to thank you for your attention. Maybe next time it'll be more tolerant of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u227	Thank you. Mr. Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Me, not only this time, but usually I'm paying attention and listening to everyone who talks, including Mr. Tank. I have to say, I've listened very carefully this time also in anticipation of finding out something new, and I'm not. I've learned what's always happening at every point and consistently. That the coalition does not prepare the necessary instruments for consideration in the National Assembly, we hear this every week, at least 3 to 5 times, no matter how much truth there is, no matter how much truth. Even when it is on agenda 10 and more, you will find that none is important to you, except those you have proposed. And we have to listen to this, not once, but three times in college, three times in every session and at every point in the agenda. Another time. We have heard what we usually hear that we are an ugly coalition, which does not take into account any brilliant, best proposals from the opposition. We have heard again how kind and good you are, giving us the basis for our little good will, to find excellent solutions in the laws that have been prepared, and not to talk about content. We have heard that your proposals solve the justice system, which, here alone, I agree with you, is indeed in a very critical state, both citizens and citizens, as well as Members and Members, including coalitions, with the situation in the field of justice we are not satisfied. With only one difference: that we do not idealize the state of the prosecution as you idealize it and you say, everything else is wrong, but the state of the prosecution is ideal and brilliant. It is no wonder, therefore, that we are sometimes unconscionable over this, because regardless of the content of the law, you always say the same things, desiring to show people how incapable and unprepared this coalition is. As regards the content of the proposed law. It is difficult, ladies and gentlemen, to support it if it is found that the regulation proposed in the law could be contrary to the protection of personal data and to the Constitution. It is difficult to support it if it is found that the proposed content is not a content to be regulated by law, but by programmes and by sub-laws. It is difficult to support if, on the one hand, the public requests data which cannot be made public and if, on the other hand, it is found that most of those data, or those who have the interest and right to access the data, are already available, that they must be approved by the judge who leads the case, not by anyone. And that was the whole content of the debate, and I would like to point out one more thing. I would be very grateful if you would tell me where you found suitable solutions in comparable judicial systems. You were really quoting them, Austria, Germany, I think Belgium, but you were talking completely about other things, not the computerization of the registers, and not the fact that they would be generally available to the public with information that is not necessary for the record to be kept. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be wonderful to have much more discussion about the content of the solutions, but not to have listened to the general conclusion on each item of the agenda, for the third time today. I myself have been in a position to hold a meeting and I have had to listen even more to your discussions in the food law. Everything was the same. If I had listened to this item on the agenda or this discussion at that point, it would have been the same. The proposals are great, the coalition is not preparing what is absolutely necessary, it has no social sense, it is obvious to the Government that it was solving things in the previous term, and today it does not want to solve them alone, and so on, not to mention. I will be delighted if, at some point in time, I have more opportunity to hear a debate on some concrete solutions, arguments for and against, not those general indications that you give to the coalition at every point in the agenda. You won't piss me off, because I have them, thank God, fat ones, but I don't think you're doing any good to yourself and not to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u229	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Respectable. I will remain within the framework of the topic addressed by the National Assembly under this item on the agenda, so let me repeat once again that this law is not necessary. This law has three substantive articles together, five of them, but three are substantive and all three interfere with the already regulated matter. So, we're talking about what's already been arranged. However, the proposer wishes to arrange this slightly differently, but in a manner which is not in accordance with the Constitution and even does not comply with one international convention governing the protection of personal data. Logically, then, the government cannot support it. Second. It has already been explained by Mr Portec that this proposal does not bring universal access to the Court's records, which has been tried in the debate. It only provides access to the participants in judicial proceedings. But they already have that access today. Third. The bill is based on the assumption that the criminal recorders in particular are not informed. I have to repeat: they're computerized. From 1. This year's 1st is computerized. Further, when it came to comparing systems, let me help you find a system where access to court records is free, and not just to the recorders, to the trial files in all cases, whether they are criminal, whether or not it is a divorce of a marriage, where these may be very personal matters - anyone can come into the file in the United States of America. But of course, there is no European Convention on Human Rights, but standards for the protection of personal data are different. There they historically use this free access to the most intimate sphere of human beings subject to judicial proceedings, including to discourage people from turning to courts. Because if you know that everyone can come and look at everything that applies to you, whether you're a defendant or a defendant, of course, you'll think very hard about whether or not you're going to go down in this role, especially if you have something to do with it. But in Europe there is a different system, different standards apply, the standards established by the European Court of Human Rights, which you have also referred to in the debates, must be taken into account, and certain restrictions on these access should therefore apply. Among other things, there is no need for anyone to see a single parent number, tax number and other data, all that you wanted to handle with this bill. That is why this law is not appropriate, and above all I have pointed out in the first place that what we need is the implementation of the already adopted e-Court Strategy. And in this area, we have some deficits, especially in system engineers. If there were no such restrictions on employment in the state administration, it might be possible to speed up these processes a little bit, thus combining this employment in a way that we can use some of the funds from these European funds for the temporary employment of experts, who will then help to develop this computer support. This is the way in which we are now trying to give one more boost to the e-justice project. It is therefore not a matter of any delay - not me, as minister, not all the other judicial authorities involved in this project; on the contrary! We are doing everything we can to accelerate this process as much as possible. This e-Justice project is extremely divisive. It includes 26 different components, including: an electronic land book, or a common database, or an e-notary project, an e-obligation project - that is, everything that is paid in justice [[Taxes, fines and so on]] , it is briefly informed and then adapted accordingly to the enforcement procedures. Or project calculation of late interest, central management of documents and files, electronic depository for all courts. Then a specific system for what has been mentioned many times today to monitor and control time standards - either legal, or those determined by the courts themselves, so as not to delay the trial or even depreciate any criminal cases. A document certification project, for example, as a specific component, to renovate some of the already-informed records in the courts, such as, say, a legal or a record for judicial matters. Then there is, for example, a central criminal record project, including the establishment of a register of some persons for whom the National Assembly has assessed that this is necessary, such as pedophiles. Then there's the information project, which covers the registrations of the State Attorney's Office and the State Attorney's Office, and the District Attorney's Office. Then there is a specific project, which has already been completed, digitisation of international treaties, so that everyone can already obtain from the Ministry of Justice with digital access all information on all international treaties, all of which Slovenia has ratified and is bound by. Then there is the project of a videoconference system for conducting distance hearings, not only in cross-border disputes, which are very increasing due to the globalisation and integration of Slovenia into integration, but also because the needs of procedures dictate this. For example, especially when it comes to hearing children in judicial proceedings. With this videoconferencing system, we will remove them from the courts, we will move them away from the stress they may experience in court; we will adapt the interrogation methods and so on, not just the children, there are other cases, anonymous witnesses, those who cannot go to court, and so on. In short, it's a series of different sub-projects. Or, say, sound recording of the main proceedings. Here we expect in the short term, the greatest savings, time and financial. And the first courts will be equipped with sound recording devices at the end of this year. Here, trial results can result in up to 30% to 40% of the shorter court proceedings when it comes to handling orders and main proceedings. That's no big deal. Then there is a project that I have already mentioned, an e-notary, such as a renewal of the information system of the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions, and a specific project that will process all statistics, and an information system to support records at the Ministry itself, and at the Centre for Education, etc. etc. This is a very large project, which is also financially very strongly supported. 23 million euros is not enough money, not even in these times. And it assures us that in reasonable time we will modernise Slovenian justice when it comes to electronic commerce. Of course, we can't do it all at once, we wish it was yesterday, but maybe it'll be tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u231	Thank you. Dr. Gorenak has the word on behalf of the candidates, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Of course, I must say that in a way I am satisfied, at least the Minister is trying and explaining some things, especially these last ones I liked. We've written about this in our pre-election programs, and you're right, there will be, I think, very large savings there as well. In short, the Minister is at least trying to show goodwill, explain certain things, his views, which, of course, I have not been involved with the coalition Members. I myself began this performance with an extremely correctness, and on the other hand, I experienced a completely different reaction that man did not expect, especially from respectable people. So let me also say a few words in the context of what the largest parliamentary group has finally presented. I think that all of us, including the Minister, now and before, have gone a little wider than the narrowest topic. No evidence on our part is necessary for the coalition not to do or do anything, but of course it is also that we do not accept what was said, that we only present ourselves to you with those laws that we are applying, that those laws are hindering you and so on. Last but not least, if the three laws tabled by the People's Party and the two of us were not present today, then this meeting, if we subtracted the question from the Members, would last one and a half days. Although the National Assembly is scheduled, we know it's been a week. Well, that's also the historic record of this coalition. And there's something else to say. All calls to: help, be creative and be right, because we heard them earlier. Let me remind you that it was we who supported your Prime Minister's proposal in the opening act when he said, "I will immediately go into some modification of the development partnership, because crisis times are coming." Because you wouldn't let him do it, we suggested it, and you wouldn't let him do it again. So much for being willing to cooperate. I've listened to you, and so will you be polite, please, to me. Even more, as far as cooperation is concerned, not only in this law that we are talking about today, there is something else to say. That we left one package on your desk when we left the government palace, and you probably threw it in the trash can; then we filed one last May last year, and you said no, then we put one in a little later, and you said no, and then we put one in, I think in February this year, you said no. So, I refuse to say that we are not prepared to cooperate. Hell, yeah! You're the one who's refusing such cooperation. There was something else about international comparisons that we did not find here in this law appropriate international comparisons. At least we tried and wrote what we could write and what we found. Let me remind you of another law, this is the law on police, in which you wrote that most European countries have a great model of appointing a CEO who can come from civil society. This is the European, which is the best that this coalition has ever done. But I'm sorry! I then asked the Secretary of State to prove to me that he should show me the cases of such countries. He said, "I'll send it to you." He never sent it to me. When I reminded him of that, he said, "We're still translating from English." And I said, "It can be in English." I never got that. However, the National Assembly's research mission has shown that government material signed by Mr Cwickl, prepared in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, has been a lie. So if we're flawed in international comparisons here, you're willing to lie and write a lie in explanation. In fact, no European country, except Estonia, I told you that at the time, and in part Portugal, does have such a model. And you said they had almost everything. So much for the credibility of the explanations. You're saying it's hard to support a law that's not serious, that doesn't have any serious intentions, which is flawed, and so on. I must remind you that in the spring we received a law that was called the correction of the penal code, KZ1. There you have brought in a series of provisions that would define criminal responsibility for these minors, or even persecution of these minors, because that would otherwise be our mistake. Later it turned out that this was not true when the Constitutional and Supreme Court said that it was not true; but what did you do? I have to say this politely, you've changed two words into a transitional and final provision, so that you have a nice "face" to make a smart coalition appear on the outside. Let's get started here in this law that is now ahead of us and invest energy, invest, I'll say, your knowledge, enforce, and your professional services, and there'll be a better marriage. And we never said, never said that our knowledge was brilliant. Never. It is true, however, that people on this side of the National Assembly have also led the European Union, but this does not make us boast of anything in particular. Now the available data are in the marriage, someone said, I think the minister - he thinks they're accessible, but only the way is a little different. Data on bankruptcy managers were also available under certain special conditions, but today they are more accessible. So accessibility can be worse, it can be better. If there is any information inside that suggests that this would be contrary to the Constitution or the conventions, as you say, please delete the amendment. I don't have a problem if there's an EMHA problem and so on. That can be deleted, but the condition is the pressure on the "for" key tomorrow, which is obviously questionable. That's problematic. So much for the subject. I respect what the Minister said in the final speech, and in particular this description of what this e-justice is still bringing, and I strongly agree with it. In short, it is okay if you continue these projects there, in any case, but I find it difficult to say that you are constructive in any proposal made by the opposition. Unfortunately, I could not say that, especially in other laws, not just that. Sometimes I get a feeling, I'm really sorry to have to say this, but sometimes I get the feeling that you really care more about other things and lobbying than I call it. To conclude that we will not say that we are delaying, I invite you all to complete the matter, the leader of the largest coalition parliamentary group is laughing at me for now. Maybe we'll change roles sometime, and I'll laugh when you try. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u233	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. [[I can't see my hand.]] That is why I conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Friday 26 in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 3. 2010 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. Period of the day - firstly, a proposal for a law on the publicity of the acquisition of functionaries. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the text to the representative of the proposed drafters of the law, Zvonko Černač, for a further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u234	Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, good evening! Another law that is inappropriate does not come at the right time, and the government has better solutions for it. We propose a bill on the public property of officials in the parliamentary procedure for the second time. For the first time, we filed it on 16 July last year, after the government had not proposed an appropriate law, even though it had been for some time. The mandatory conduct of officials and officials to report information on their assets and the public record of the assets of officials is governed by the Law on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity in 2006. The law applies to civil servants, mayors, municipalities in self-governance local communities, as well as to those public servants who are directors or members of collective management bodies of public agencies, public institutions, public funds, specifically those referred to in the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance and the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. Finally, the law also applies to directors and members of collective management bodies of public companies and companies owned by the majority of the Republic of Slovenia. After the entry into force of the 2006 Act, the Constitutional Court suspended the enforcement of this Act before its application. 5. While the point of the Constitutional Court’s decision does not significantly prolong the retention of enforcement, it does not extend the same as in the previous decision of 13. 4. 2006 provides that the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Act shall apply, with the exception of Article 39, paragraph 5, and Articles 40 to 43 of this Act. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia does not explicitly refer to anti-corruption activities, but the requirement to prevent corruption stems from the rule of law. Corruption threatens the rule of law and undermines people's trust in key state institutions, reduces political stability and social peace. The adoption of the law we are proposing is therefore necessary for several reasons. I've already mentioned one of these reasons. This is an intermediate situation that needs to be settled, and as we can see, the government is also aware of it. When we proposed a similar law last year, on 16 July, the then State Secretary announced that the Government would adopt a law on this subject in 2009 and by the end of 2009. We are aware that the proposal for a law has been dealt with recently, and I think it will be the end of February this year. What we are proposing in the law and what seems important to us and what is different, as proposed in other solutions, is the public's wealth of public officials; the public's assets in such a way that they are guaranteed in a transparent way through public publication. And even though such a law is not yet in force, we Members and Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party at the time when we first proposed this law, in July 2009, have also fulfilled this obligation and made our assets public. But the reactions were interesting at the time. We expected all other Members and Members to follow this example, but instead we received some kind of ridicule or even labelling in some media in the sense that a few euros worth of shares had been forgotten to report. Instead of creating circumstances and an atmosphere through this example that would make this area more transparent and help us to get serious into this area too. We have also said that this bill does not abolish the Commission for the prevention of corruption, that part of the jurisdiction is transferred to the Court of Auditors, although it does not justify its purpose in a loving manner and does not justify it in this interim period. Many times it serves to discredit individuals rather than to deal seriously with corruption. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, of course, we will support this law and I do not think that it is in any way destroying the ambitions of the Government in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u235	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister of Public Administration, Mrs Irmi Pavlinič Krebs, for an introductory explanation of the Government's opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u236	Mr Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! Respected proponents, your proposals in the work that are in line with the Constitution we fully accept and the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which is in the second reading on the home working body, we hope that the convening of this meeting in due course will contain solutions that are in your law, as well as other solutions that are an up-to-date response to the state of time with the desire to regulate the transparency of the public sector's functioning in the best possible way. There is a problem in the proposal for a regulation that cannot be addressed with good intentions in two constitutionally controversial proposals. You have proposed, in the proposal for a law, the transfer of powers relating to the application and monitoring of the assets of officials from the Commission to prevent corruption to the Court of Auditors. Such a proposal is in fact constitutionally controversial and does not comply with the precise position of the Court of Auditors in the Constitution. Article 150 of the Constitution provides that the Court of Auditors shall be the highest authority for the control of state accounts, the State budget and all public expenditure and shall have an independent position. We cannot deny that the Commission has an independent position to prevent corruption, which is widely trusted by people and considered to be a body worth noting its doubts about irregularities in the public sector. Because it is also an independent body, we believe that the reasons for the applicants in the explanation of the draft law, where you state the reason why they would transfer the jurisdiction of the application and control of the property to the Court of Auditors, since it is an independent body, do not hold back a serious judgment. The mission of the two authorities, both the Court of Auditors and the Commission, is indeed control and control, but from the point of view of control or control objectives there are two completely different areas. The second problem in this bill is your proposal for the full disclosure of the assets of the officials. The Constitutional Court has already assessed such a solution in 2006 and it stated in the decision that the solution, i.e. the duty to declare all the assets of a public official, is contrary to the principle of proportionality and is an infringement of the rights of the constitutional protection of the personal data of officials. The Constitutional Court says [[Quote]] : "The transparency of the exercise of a public function by the nature of the matter would be facilitated by the public disclosure of information on that property and on those incomes of an individual, a public official who would have been acquired during the period of public office or a certain period after its termination. However, for the publication of a larger volume of data, it does not appear reasonable, with the constitutional objective of the related reason." Therefore, according to the Constitutional Court’s assessment, the public publication of certain data on property status unduly threatens even the right to personal security as set out in Article 34 of the Constitution. For this reason, the drafters in the law, which is already in the procedure in Parliament, provide for the publication of data on the assets of officials, but in a constitutionally consistent manner. And we regulate the fight against corruption and unwanted behaviour in a much more comprehensive manner, as you know by yourself, because you have probably already seen this proposal. I expect that, because these solutions in this law are also modified so that they are constitutionally consistent, in the law of the Government, or this is already the law of Parliament, we will formulate the text together and that the National Assembly will adopt it and thereby give an important message to the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u237	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u238	Nice greeting to some of your colleagues, to your colleagues, to your minister and to your vice president, tonight! And this time it was heard that the government did not support it. Well, if you did, you'd surprise me. But they say that the nation has the guidance it deserves. I think the Slovenian people deserve better leadership, and I am sure that this will show up very soon. So, even if the officials publish the assets, don't let them. Who in God's name are you really afraid of? We have before us a bill to ensure transparency in the functioning of public officials and effective preventive action in the field of anti-corruption. So you're afraid of preventing corruption and preventive action. It is proposed that all officials, including the President of the Republic, the Government, Members, Ministers, Judges, notaries, should report their assets to the Slovenian Court of Auditors. I also have to challenge the bill-maker here. I could also write here that this is true, honourable gentlemen of the motions, for the opposition people, not for the coalition. I'm asking you nicely and you're referring to the government as such. That's amazing. And the government is right to criticize you. The official should explain any increase in assets exceeding the sum of his net salaries paid at the time of the last application. And all this information would be published on the Court of Auditors’ website following a bill. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we understand the proposal for a law on the public property of officials as a good aim of curbing corruption, which has apparently also been very disruptive in the field of public officials. You think anyone else believes that? Clearly, the crisis of corruption is so deeply entrenched in our society that the government coalition does not even allow such a law to be adopted that officials should at least report it legally. Since we believe that every successful democratic country must effectively prevent corruption and customerism, of course, we support this bill. However, we are wondering what is with the so-called colleague and colleagues of the coalition and the government, the financial police. Who checks out those who are not officers and out of nothing that enriches them overnight? Where did they take it? On whom did they take advantage? This is a matter of some other law that is not, and you have also promised by the coalition. Even the financial police. I'm asking you-- government and coalition. Let me go back to the bill on public property of officials. We have no personal reservations in the Slovenian People's Party's Group to make the data public. We already have public information. Options on how to publish data are more. So this is not necessarily just the Internet and this is not necessarily only on the Court of Auditors’ website. The variants of the publication of the data at the time of reception in the second reading would be supplemented. Our proposal in the Slovenian People's Party is to publish the data also in local newspapers, local media. You know why? Because these local media read those who elect us, those who know us and those who will know very quickly whether we have reported our assets properly and honestly or not. However, we also have our own opinion on those publications of property on websites that have shown an unrealistic picture from afar. To attribute property to a wife or husband or other family member, and then to give some unrealistic information to the public, it is certainly not fair, let alone transparent. But who else in this country does it transparently and honestly?Oh, my God! What this is meant for, of course, we know. However, we will not join Members of the Slovenian People's Party in doing this. Therefore, this law prevents such a situation in Article 4, and it is good that this is enshrined in Article 4. We support the public's data on the assets of officials, even so that there are no more divergent assumptions and unfortunate valuations of property, when such or other media houses can, in their own way and just so, a little over the finger, assess the property of an official, then publish it and such an announcement - the untruth becomes the truth and become a fact. Too many have been injured in this way by those who have earned a fair share in their work. But those who know how to play the system and the law are successful in hiding. Finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, I should only add that we can fight corruption and customerism through such a law. However, in order for only this law or its implementation to restore the general confidence of the Slovenian public in public institutions and public officials, it will not be enough. This is why we call on the Government to prepare a comprehensive package of anti-corruption legislation. We will support the law with the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Franz Jurš.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u240	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the Minister and also to colleagues, colleagues who continue in the National Assembly. With the exception of the different dates of this act, the proposal for a law on the public property of officials is exactly the same as the proposal that we have already addressed in this mandate at the 9th regular meeting of the DZ held last September. Our Group has already made comments on such a way of investing in the legislative procedure. The Government had already indicated in its opinion that this area would be regulated by the Law on Integrity, which would regulate the composition, functioning and competence of the Commission to prevent corruption, protect applicants, prevent conflicts of interest and control over the reception of gifts, control over the assets of officials, integrity plans, control over the implementation of the rules on the financing of political parties, lobbying, management and use of records and misdemeanours and fines. It is certainly not our principled view of the non-support of the proposal under consideration that we do not support these ideas on public ownership of officials. On the contrary. This idea is extremely close to us, but we believe that the proposal itself is going to be rejected for the reason that this topic is already regulated by law. Since then, it is the duty of officials to report their assets. This area is governed by the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity, which, according to the opinion of the Constitutional Court, is disputed in a particular part and has therefore delayed the implementation of certain articles and repealed a number of articles. We all know that the former authorities have fought at all levels to dissolve the Commission to prevent corruption under the pretext that the latter would represent a harmless tiger, and apparently both the law and the so-called Kosovo Commission have been to certain thorn structures in the fifth. Therefore, in the previous term, they are being tried to be eliminated by the adoption of the said Act, which, as has already been said, has experienced the repeal of a number of its provisions by the Constitutional Court and a request for the abolition of the constitutionalities found and, for that time, the extension of the application of the Act and the functioning of the Commission. It is clear that the requirements of the Constitutional Court, the ratification of the United Nations Convention against Corruption and other international obligations of Slovenia require us to effectively strengthen integrity and transparency and to regulate the extremely pressing issue of corruption and its prevention, as corruption in the Republic of Slovenia is widespread. The proponent of the law on public property of officials follows these requirements to a certain extent, and therefore this text cannot only be thrown into the basket. Some solutions are thought through and meaningful, but the comprehensive text of the proposal is not ripe for our support, as it also contains essential inconsistencies and incomprehensibility, which certainly cannot be supported. The second reason for the complementary approach to this proposal is already the proposal for a law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, which will deal more fully with this area. The text of the proposal under consideration, as well as in our Group of Members, touches only one area, which certainly opposes the principle that everything is rounded up and that areas of life are systematically regulated in one place, if that is possible. In short, our Group supports the proposaler's idea that it is necessary to approach the regulation of this area, and in short, we agree with the Government's argument. That is why we will now reject and vote against the proposal now under consideration for a law on public property of an official that is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will move the LDS Club's position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u242	Madam Minister, Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues. We will not support the proposed content of the law on the public property of officials in the Liberal Democrats' Chamber. Not because we are afraid to present our assets to the public, but because we believe the Government or its announcement that this issue will be resolved systematically and more comprehensively, in fact, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will address this issue systematically and comprehensively and by taking into account the Constitutional Court's decisions, which will regulate the composition, functioning and competence of the Commission to prevent corruption, protect applicants, prevent conflicts of interest and control over the reception of gifts, control over the assets of officials, integrity plans, control over the implementation of the rules on the financing of political parties, lobbying, management and use of records and misdemeanours and fines. The proposed law on the public property of officials thus constitutes an amendment to one chapter of the future law on integrity and a new independent law, because it is contrary to the Government's policy that the substantively rounded areas of life and conduct should be created as clearly as possible, transparently, if only systematically, in one place, we reduce saturation with laws that link the subject in a transparent manner, without compelling reasons, and thus reduce legal certainty. The proposal for a law on public property of officials providing for the transfer of powers in relation to the application and monitoring of the assets of officials with the Commission to prevent corruption to the Court of Auditors, which would also result in the transfer of technical, material and other assets, archives, records and other related documents, is unacceptable to us as it is contrary to the constitutional decision of 13 April. 4. 2007 which has also addressed and decided that such a proposal is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. At the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia, we will not support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further application. We want to hear the content, not everything else, as we listened to in the previous law, in the course of the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Some recent events have raised some questions and it seems that politics has been brought back closer to those common comparisons compared with ladies of the night. Such an understanding of policy must be resisted and its action must prove that politics is a process that follows our common interests and that must recognize in its democratic system the common challenges and needs of our people. This is how the Social Democrats view politics and the role of politicians in it. This is considered to be a work of common good, which must be based on respect for the Constitution and the rule of law, as well as the highly established moral and ethical framework in which we act as politicians and politicians. It is only in this way that it is possible to democratically identify what the expectations of the public are, what the community expects from politics and, therefore, what our priorities are, which we must do for the good of this community. We do not agree that we are all the same, that all politics is corrupt and false and that we are all trading with our political role. On the contrary, we claim to be part of an honest policy that we are shaping by principled and honest people. Unfortunately, there are also exceptions that must be effectively detected and pursued by an effective institutional system and framework for detection and prosecution of corruption. Therefore, the current events are not only worth our condemnation, but this conviction is necessary to make it clear that such behaviour is unacceptable for us not to adopt such behaviour without such a conviction and such classification becoming generally acceptable and a general appearance of political space. Such phenomena and such policies are foreign to us and must be foreign to all of us. This is all the more important in difficult times when the public seems to be losing confidence in politics, democratic institutions, in being able to meet the challenges we face as a country and as a nation. The difficult challenges facing our government need this democratic trust, and even though we are not always successful at this, we are working to strengthen our confidence in these democratic institutions through our political conduct and our operation. Last but not least, it is not so important because of the popularity of this party or one, but because of the existence and credibility of democracy itself. Social Democrats are never, and so not now, when we are in power, we are not hiding from the transparency and transparency of our conduct. We have all reported our assets under the law to the anti-corruption commission, and many of us have also disclosed information about the property situation to the public and the media. In the Social Democrats' Group, we will not support the proposal for a law on public property for officials. Firstly: because it is another attempt to end the anti-corruption commission. Secondly: because of such a law, we will not contribute in any way to the detection and prosecution of corruption. Thirdly: because the solutions under this law are contrary to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, if not even unconstitutional. Let us be very clear - we want and will regulate the transparency of the assets of the officials, but above all we will take a comprehensive step towards corruption on the tail, not only among the officials, but also more broadly within the state administration. Last but not least, with the adoption of the new Police Law, we have also assigned some additional tasks to this topic to the new National Investigation Office, which must also detect and effectively detect such crimes, crimes of corruption. Our government has approached the preparation of a law on integrity that regulates the recording and control of officials' assets, including the origin of assets, regulates conflicts of interest, prohibits the granting of business, businesses associated with officials and their family members, regulates lobbying and newly defines the position of an independent body to detect and prosecute corruption, i.e. the Anti-Corruption Commission. We are doing all of this with the aim of giving the country the highest possible attention by upgrading the existing model and not by abolishing it, as proposed by the opposition, to strengthening the integrity of the public sector as a whole. Therefore, to ensure that employees and officials do their work in a fair and professional manner, and at the same time the conditions for us to effectively prosecute corruption. For we are well aware that corruption inhibits social development and is fundamentally detrimental to the good development of the social and moral values of people and the community as a whole. Last but not least, it is the duty of each of us, every politician and politician, truthfulness and honesty. We are responsible for this to our constituents and voters. And because we view politics as a process, as a process on long lines, we are also convinced that short-term twists on this path are something that voters and voters clearly recognize and do not reward. Of course, we must do much more about this and that. The Commission for the Prevention of Corruption is given high confidence in the Slovenian public. In a poll on the question: Who would they report a case of corruption to if they knew about it? There's a commission in second place, right behind the police. We have the strength and determination to strengthen this commission and the entire anti-corruption system in our country, and we do not give in to some attempts to dismantle the anti-corruption system dressed in a shiny populist cloak. As stated in the bill, we will not support the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u245	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u246	Thank you very much. First something general, then something special. That's probably for the best. The mandatory conduct of officials and officials to report information on their assets and the public on the property of officials is governed by the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. What do we want to achieve or what is the purpose of this law? The proposed law aims to ensure transparency in the functioning of public officials and preventive action in this area. The proposal for a law on the public property of officials follows the principle of the division of power, according to which it was also found in the Constitutional Decision, the principle of transparency and openness. This law lays down the obligation to report the data of the officials and gives the public information on the property status of the officials to the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia is, as you know, the highest authority for the control of state accounts, state budget and total public expenditure in the Republic of Slovenia, upon termination. Some countries also have the arrangements we propose. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the Court of Auditors shall be the first independent body in its work to be bound by the Constitution and the law. The Court of Auditors cannot be classified in any of the branches of authority, not in the legislative, executive or judicial branches. The Law on the Court of Auditors provides that the act by which it exercises its non-audit powers is not admissible to challenge either before the courts or before other State authorities having an independent, independent position in the system of the judiciary; that is in the system of state authorities. One of the elements for an effective fight against corruption is monitoring the assets of officials. The mandatory conduct of the data reporting officers and the public of the data on the property status of the officials must be transparent, followed by the law's proposer. Let us just remember, even in the National Assembly we had or we still have a lot of problems when someone reported assets to the Kosovo Commission and was also looking for an alibi as to how he regulated all the legal duties, but in fact he cheated on the voters and showed some other state of affairs as it is true. If this law had been enforced, it would have become public. Kosovo is not a public commission, but Kosovo is a commission. Our law provides for the release of data publicly. To this end, the Court of Auditors shall be able to inspect the overall financial actual operation of the official and to notify its findings to the authority responsible for the selection or appointment of the officers and to the competent authorities which may act on this basis in accordance with their respective competences. The international review is attached and you have matters relatively clearly written in what country. Now for what I said, especially. I am sorry that some have left again, just as they did months ago when we discussed this law, which, of course, I cannot influence. I don't know how many times I'm gonna have to say it, so I'm gonna say it three times now: this law doesn't end the Kosovo Commission. I repeat, this law does not abolish Kosovo's commissions. As parrots, we have heard some repeaters, and I believe that this parrot will continue in some way. This law deletes several articles from that law which speaks of the Kosovo Commission and only those in whose work it is delegated to the Court of Auditors. The Kosovo Commission remains with the fundamental tasks it has. Its basic tasks are, in fact, purely something other than the collection of records of officials' assets; this is one of the smaller parts or tasks of this Commission. I therefore reiterate: The Kosovo Commission is not being abolished. I'll do it twice, yes, so you'll understand, because you obviously don't want to. If the Constitutional Court had said that the 2007 law was wrong or that it was not what it was supposed to be, I would have invited the Minister or you to change it. We can change it by pressing the "for" button tomorrow when there's a little more of us. Look, everything's nice and okay when we're talking about the publicity of officials' assets. In today's system this property can be hidden, in one way or another you can transfer it, in one way or another you can take it abroad, there we make a company, in fact a mailbox, and in Slovenia we will all be pleased because we have done our duties and because we are modest in front of voters. But that's not it. By transferring tasks from the Kosovo Commission, which now registers this property and, if necessary, tells what has been reported and what has not been reported to the Court of Auditors, which must publish these information publicly, at least following the proposal of this law, the situation is quite different. Everyone, every citizen will be able to check the assets of every official, not in some way when he needs to be told, yes, you are not entitled to this data, but I don't know what else. No, by pressing two buttons on your computer, you get the data, you type in your name and last name, and we're done. And I do not see any reason for it to be such a cry or that such opposition is to this law. Let me remind you of what you said the Constitutional Court said when it said that such a "faith" should not be pressured on officials to say everything. Yes, of course, see when the Constitutional Court takes office when the right-holders propose such a procedure. But if there were consensual people sitting in the National Assembly, who would say, "We hope, we want to publish all the information about our property," and if none of us required a constitutional opinion, such a law would work just fine. But it's the wish that is necessary. As far as SDS is concerned, we have published the data ourselves on the website, and we have also asked you to do so. Of course, something else happened, we were criticized, we were insulted, and research journalists came to work, who at Eva Irgle found one share that she inherited, and she didn't even know it was and she didn't put it on the website, and then it was a big problem. Instead of all the Members and other officials following this and saying, "What was the SDS move, let us follow it and make it legal," no, that is not. I speak in person, there is no reason for anyone who has a good conscience to support such a marriage. One who has a clear conscience can at any time easily press the "yes" button and you have no reason, none of the officials who have a clear conscience not to do so. Neglecting under Kosovo by a commission that records the data and collects it and, if necessary, calls or fails to do so and, if necessary, saves Mr Golobic, and that is, does not solve it, sorry, sorry, he has declared his assets to the Kosovo Commission in accordance with the law he has said. But if this were published on the website, this could be accessible to every citizen. I repeat, there is no dismissal of the Kosovo Commission. Let me remind you all, those who may not have sat in Parliament when we corrected this law in 2007, I think that this was, in the transitional and final provisions, clearly stated, the Kosovo Commission and the President of the Commission, Mr Kos, continue to work until the end of the mandate. To this provision, my fellow Members, I will remind you when it will come to Parliament and if the correction of the prosecutor's law will come to Parliament - as far as I know, you are preparing a correction of the prosecutor's law, in which you would otherwise arrange for the appointment of the Attorney-General to be appointed so as to transfer it to the judicial branch of power. But if the transitional and final provisions say that the law is aligned with the actual state of affairs within fourteen days, I will mark this as being done by someone else and instead of a coalition instead of ministers. I tell you already today, and I remind you of the provision, in 2007, the Kosovo Commission continues its work and Kos ends its mandate. That's what it said in that marriage, too. It's a "fair" relationship. It's either "Kos" or "Brezigar" or "Brezigar." That would be an "fair" relationship. True, it is common understanding to see that corruption is enormous. This is a general concept in our country. That's what the polls show, that's what the research shows, that's what the masters show, that's what I read in college. But when you go into the structure of these answers and do in-depth analysis, you get different results. I argue that the situation as it is at this point is that it is generally understood that it is corrupt all that we are Members, Doctors, Judges and I do not know who all is, in fact, good and it is in some way also due to the Kosovo Commission, because its task is to draw attention to every smallest phenomenon, because it works preventively and she, this Commission, has actually achieved such a state of general understanding of the terrible spread of corruption. But serious research, not only in Slovenia, but also elsewhere in Europe, will show you that there is a general understanding between this general concept and the reality that we can never figure out in any way, we can explore it roughly, but there is a big difference. Let me remind you of just one of those tasks that she said about the following. Surveyers, inspectors, labour and environment, I think we have asked how much corruption is in Slovenia and who is the most corrupt and explain it and corruption is in their opinion, we are talking about a scientific and research task, a lot. That's what we'll say. And everything is corrupt. After we asked them: How many times have you been in your job as an environmental inspector or whatever, you have experienced corruption, falling by 70-80% from that reality. This does not mean that corruption in Slovenia is not far from that. Far from it! Probably even worse than that corruption with some small envelopes, there are probably corrupt practices in terms of protecting a porridge lobby, which we sometimes protect in the National Assembly with pressure on the "for" button. I wonder if that's what it is. Look, one more thing. Additional tasks, as previously said, which we have set for the National Investigation Office, yes, because we have not defined any, but we need to understand and read what law. We haven't assigned any additional tasks to the police, they've been written in the law for 10 years or more. It's more like that, you know, for the audience. That's not true. The situation is also such that it is right, even if it is true, it would be possible for him to assert that statement, which says how people trust the Kosovo Commission. Research shows that. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, they do show research, and for a while it was even in the first place, in front of the police, and now it's supposed to be the police in front of her. But why do you have to ask yourself why? Because there seems to be a big difference between corruption and crime. Something may have elements of corruption, but it's not criminal. For example, voice shopping. For instance. What does that mean? This means that the Kosovo Commission can declare a series of things to be corrupt elements of corruption and the police cannot identify, nor can the prosecution, and even less the judiciary of signs of crime, because there is a huge difference. And so the questions raised, to whom you trust and so on, must then be such a result that this commission is first of all, after the trust of people, we cannot take this as an argument why we must have this commission, even though no one is abolishing it. That's more or less an argument for something else. But I'm glad the police, if what's been said before, are now in the first place after who they trust. Once again, I would like to stress the need to be very careful about when we are talking about bigotry and when we are talking about corruption crimes. But that's a big difference. And one more thing. The Commission may at any time, with very little or no evidence, declare any action corrupt or that it has signs of corruption, you will be able to read in the main opinions. But I'm sorry, when the material comes to the police, there can't be any signs, but there must be evidence. That is why there is also such a big difference, although one would like to see this commission, for example, take a look at another matter, not just Strojanov there in Postojna, but some national investigation office, as we have come to. In short, this law, I repeat for the fifth time, does not abolish the Kosovo Commission, deletes several articles and the essential added value of this law is the public property of officials available to everyone. Everyone, let every citizen know what assets we have, Members, Ministers, Secretary of State and so on. And I really like what someone suggested when they said to the local media, let it go. It doesn't mean anything, you know, if someone publishes information about what my property is, because most people in my constituency will miss it. But if the local newspaper publishes this, there's no better control. There is no better control, no commission, no courts, no one has as much control as those who live 20, 30, 50 meters away; they have the best control. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u248	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! A group of Members with first-signed Jozet Tank submitted to the National Assembly a proposal for a law on public property of officials. In the Group of Members, we really believe that such a law is unnecessary, since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already confirmed the text of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption and forwarded it to the National Assembly on 25 February 2010. This is the text of a law that provides, in a more modern way, an appropriate basis for strengthening integrity and transparency, especially in the public sector as well as in a certain part of the private sector, which is a prerequisite for successfully combating corruption and other forms of illegal conduct in all segments of public authority, in the performance of public functions and in the performance of public affairs. The bill before us, inter alia, provides for the transfer of powers relating to the application and monitoring of the assets of officials from the Commission for the prevention of corruption to the Court of Auditors, which we cannot really agree with in the Group of Members. We believe that this is a transfer of technical and other means, records and other documentation, which is constitutionally controversial and, above all, non-systemic. The Court of Auditors is not established for this purpose, as it is an independent body and its competences are, above all, other natures. This is the highest body for the control of state accounts and the control of state accounts, the state budget and all public expenditure. Of course, the Commission has a similar dependent position to prevent corruption and therefore there is no need to transfer the powers to the Court of Auditors to register and control the assets of officials. It is true that this is a control and control body, but it should be stressed that it is a rather different area in terms of control or control objectives. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the intended objective, namely the enforcement of the constitutional decision of international standards and the actual social integrity and transparency of public authorities and the effective prevention of corruption, cannot be achieved through the adoption of this law, but only by the adoption of the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, which regulates this matter more comprehensively. That is why we will not support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u249	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Tadj Slapnik. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mrs. Breda Bakan. [[She won't discuss it.]] Mr. Franco Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I listened very precisely to my colleague Gorenak and, in fact, I once again convinced myself that this law was a matter of concern to the SDS party, in order to outrun them, which the Government had already done with a much more systematic and clear law. They wanted to be first, and that's understandable. They wanted to re-create a space for discussion, where we would hear everything we heard there by Mr Gorenak, and, of course, took this opportunity to point again at specific public officials, to specific ministers. Today we have heard again the story of Minister Golobic, who, of course, is already so chewed up and so abused that he no longer has any preventability. Let us once again say that what we are discussing today has nothing to do with something where it has been proven and we have dedicated one whole session to it, even a debate. It has been shown that all those accusations on which this SDS structure was based are unrealistic, beginning with the fact that those famous loans were unsecured. This has been rejected by the facts, and yet we continue and continue, of course, the accusations that are not true even when we speak of such a law. One of the most important objectives that the party has already set itself in its programme and then in those notable 99th points with which it participates in the coalition is actually transparency and the fight against corruption. That is why the Government has already adopted, announced and will be discussing this in the National Assembly, a law that addresses all these aspects and is called the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. I have not heard any indications today that the SDS wants to resolve Kosovo or the anti-corruption commission by means of this proposal, but in fact wants to reinvigorate it a little bit and take away an important role, which is the function of controlling and controlling the assets of public officials, including ministers and our Members. Personally, I have no problem publishing my modest assets on all the websites of this country and on local newspapers. I think there would be even some possibility that every Member, if he wanted to, would do it and it would be nice to publish it in the local media. We can give everyone one such call to do so. But the fact is, they don't care. The applicants of this law are not interested, nor are they interested in transparency, because here, if we talk about transparency, of course we could also demand and then discover things, but they are interested in the arena, where we will continue to warm up old stories that have been essentially exhausted and can be launched again in this way. You know, in the previous term, I think it was an apotheosis of non-transparency, an apothesis of corruption. It took place in the time of the Janša government and today it is burdening the whole country. And look at what's going on in Luka Koper, what untransparent malversions have been going on under this cover of political clienteleism and political privileges. And then no one asked for an audit to determine what was actually going on with the Eagle Giants, what was going on with the investments at the time, far away from themselves. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u251	Mr Yuri, we will not all be surprised together when the debate turns into a mutual accusation. You'll make a contribution.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u252	Okay, and I'm gonna stop. But since, in his performance, esteemed colleague Gorenak, when he presented the SDS position, went into very specific matters and raised specific questions, I think it is right that this dialectic takes place at this level, and that we put in this same basket, for example, every argument. And in fact, I'm surprised how SDS wants to outrun the government today, the government is already working on it, as you know. The government has already initiated the draft law, and of course the SDS wants to outrun it and add something that would be, say, here, an immediate populist demagogic trick, an announcement, a public publication of the assets of each official. Mr Gorenak, you were gone, I said that I have no problems with this, at least personally absolutely not, and we can give, publish both of our assets tomorrow, and then we can compare and see who is happier in this short and beautiful life. But the fact is, you're aware that by this law, not getting the necessary majority, you're just creating some kind of fog. Your proposal is rather inhospitable and just wants to hurt and point out some concrete cases from this government, which, of course, I find very legitimate. And we have already devoted a lot of debate to this and we will devote a lot of debate to this. But let's go all the way. In fact, let us also give as much transparency as possible to our work when we talk about other things, such as immunity, other issues where we could demand greater policy self-restraint. Let me repeat why we will not support this law. No, because there wouldn't be some very useful guidelines in this marriage, absolutely not. We probably agree and agree with most of these guidelines. But these guidelines will be substantially more consistent and functionally written in that law that you fear little because you want to be the first and the public to communicate: "We are the ones who have achieved transparency and clarity in the fight against corruption." I think it is right for every government to face the phenomenon of corruption. And corruption exists in one way or another, we know. And where the borders of corruption are, no one knows. So that absolute integrity and transparency are objectives that are common and without any concern that we do not fear and want to move forward in the Really Party, which has written down the self-limitation of policy as one of the main objectives. And this has been proven precisely by the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption. Don't be so impatient, wait, if you don't achieve this first goal, you're working with us to make a real law. In a short time, we will have it here on the table, and there will also be an opportunity for you to accept something that is in the national interest. And this, I hope, is primarily the prevention of corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u253	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I was right. Mr. Gorenak is reporting to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u254	Thank you very much. I'll be polite, you know.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u255	Eligibility [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u256	Yeah, yeah, and I'll be polite. I really want to explain what you're misunderstanding. I've been very fond of seeing you in the past, I mean, cartoons, but I've never read them. But today I also understand why. Look, you said, "The government's already working and so on, you're out of line now..." Let me explain. Same thing - I'll be polite - tape you rolled last year, right? And last year, when we discussed this marriage, you said, "The government is already working." Yeah, how? Nothing happened then, at least within a normal period of time, not as much as in the provinces. Public disclosure of property - finta. That's not a trick. If we give out the pocket in public, and we say, "Look how much I have, how much I don't have, and we show the wallet, then it's not a trick." I see it as a reality. Actually, I can see it in my wallet or I can't see the money. That's not a trick. Fog, nebulity - you know, sometimes despite my doctorate, I have to look at some things in the dictionary, let alone some simpler people, and I'm going to look at what this nebulosis means, because I don't want to guess. Where the borders of corruption are, that's what the law says. The law sets the limits of corruption, that's relatively clear. The law lays down the limits of corruption and corruption, which is not the same. But you have to read the law, I advise you to read it. I'll stop right now. Self-restraint policy - you can write it down, but you don't do it. We are doing this because we have made our data public. It's self-restraint. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Neither does Willie Rezman, Willie Trofenik. Mr. Miro Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u258	Thank you very much. I wouldn't talk about Luke Copper. The representatives of the current government appear to be involved in Luka Koper. Apparently, this trough was pretty big and loaded. I'd like to discuss the law we have on the table today. I think that public and effective control is the right tool or weapon in the fight against corruption. I am aware that we will never eliminate corruption because corruption is as old as human race. Of course, we must strive for the so-called zero level of corruption. The question is, how? One, of course, is the education of young people, from kindergarten onwards we must teach them what corruption is and what is not appropriate, what is not appropriate to do. The second is, of course, a system of values. It's just that people need to be shown that he's not a loser who has a huge fortune that he's acquired under some strange circumstances. It's just that it's the guy who lives fair and square in this situation. Third, of course, is legislation. We are here in Parliament to set some legal frameworks to bring these objectives, this is a zero level of corruption, as close as possible. The Court of Auditors, which is also the subject of this law, has great reputation, has knowledge, and I think it would be all right if it also took over this function. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is not untouchable. It is true that some say that it is necessary to amend the Constitution with a shivering hand, but new issues that are affecting the Constitution are emerging and why we should not add this issue to our consideration. We see, in this paper, that countries are very different in handling this issue. In some countries, such as Austria, a special State audit institution is responsible for this area, and the Constitutional Court is responsible for this, for example, in Portugal. And because of me, it can also significantly increase the number of employees in the Court of Auditors, because if corruption of officials is detected, if the state saves more, if this makes the country more expensive - but we know that any corruption of the country is at stake - then these economic effects will be far greater than any additional employment. Today it has already been said here that we went to SDS on this in last year's year's step forward. We've published our assets online. The Constitutional Court does say that public disclosure of officials' assets could endanger personal security. Personal safety has not been compromised for me as a result of this publication. But she threatened me, because of another event in 2001, and it was tough. Journalists, however, are those who control politics, who can determine what the official has said in truth on the basis of publicly published documents, and what he has not said. And if the data of our officials on the Internet is published publicly, then, as my colleague Gorenak has already said here, then we are even more controlled by our neighbors. And the neighbors will certainly make sure that the lie is revealed, and the media, believe me, will gladly publish every lie on your side and also on our side. If the property is obtained in an honest way, then without bad news we can publish it anywhere and at any time. However, we can also make public the data and accounts and shares of companies abroad, as this law does not prohibit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u260	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Well, hello, Madam Secretary. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Despite the late hours, so one would say, hard hours and hard times when dealing with such, one would say, very high-sounding terms, clean conscience, and a dirty crime, and I don't know what it is all about, but we're talking about how we've done different surveys, how we have a series of masters, including doctors on the subject of corruption, how we've done things transparently, how and how this property is very transparent, I wonder what we've actually done in all these years of our democracy in this area, except that we've been able to discuss very much, how we've talked about such imaginary concepts as suspicion, and I don't know what we've done together. This can be debated and debated indefinitely, and we can also write not only how many laws, but, if this will contribute to less corruption, I am, say, for. But this law that you've presented to us Members of Parliament today for the bench didn't really convince me. Mr. Gorenak, I respect your conduct and your knowledge and everything that belongs to me. I certainly do not reach out to you in your knowledge of all suspicions and perhaps similar corrupt acts, not even to a small finger, as I would say, but I do believe that your intention and also my desire of the Group of Members in which I am is that these corrupt acts, particularly during the period of crisis, prevent them from being as small as possible because we know that corrupt acts are inherent to man, one way or another. Some say that a smile or a friendly gesture is already one way of hinting at a corrupt act, but well, it can be written and written in essays, such and different, but now we will not guess how and how. It is the desire of all of us to prevent corruption, in particular in the public interest segment, public finances and all of this, and therefore I expect and think that the Government will be able to contribute with its knowledge and behaviour in order to prepare such legislation. Unfortunately, this, this proposed law, which we are discussing today, will not be my support. There are many reasons, certainly, but once again, I would not have been able to tell me that I am for the transparency of the assets, I am for the transparency of the actions and everything else that is included in this, also so that the records, the databases are regulated, because some of the debates also suggest that these records and databases are not sufficiently regulated. If they're not arranged, let's see if there's anything we can do, but I'm afraid I'm not going to support this marriage. Thank you so much for your words and for listening to me at this late hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mag. Borut Saiovic will not be debated. Not Vito Rozje. The flower of Zalokar Orzam is not. Franz Pukšič doesn't either. Aloysius Potočnik didn't either. Mr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u262	Yeah. Thank you very much. You found out well that actually here in the middle, with those, well, that's not the topic, because I'm only going to be one sentence, about those parties that might be here, but they're not, but they are when we're discussing money, and then they are. Oh. K. It's not a theme. Yeah, well, you said, I agree with you, too, when you said, "I suspect," and so on, even though you told me I didn't, I don't feel like a special expert in this area. But something's true. What sometimes happens in public and what I miss about the Kosovo Commission is that when he says something when he writes something down, that person is already a criminal. Why isn't it? We had such typical cases in Postojna, for example, when it was said that there was corruption in the control of the Strojans. I have no idea how that could be. Absolutely not. But in short, this is the essential difference that we need to separate - on the one hand, corruption, dealing with elements that point to something, and on the other hand the crimes committed by the police, the prosecution and the judiciary. Look, this government has already prepared. We discussed this law or similar version once last year. At the time, I missed what the coalition said, no, otherwise we'll reject it, but we'll really make the right marriage. This law came in a draft last year, but the government has already adopted it, as I think, and is already in the process of this House, but here is a new version. It bothers me because you say something, we'll do it, just like you did last year in this marriage, but it's gone and it wasn't, as well as the provincial legislation, where something like this happens. It's not the best, and it's not the best. I think we should just respect some of the hands that the government coalition has behind it. It is also possible that this is important, I will not delay, no constitutional decision, no law, no commission, no Court of Auditors can do anything to any of us if we write down everything we have on our own website. That's right, we agree. However, it may be possible to seize this debate today, if you intend to reject the law tomorrow, let me once again invite you to do so in a transitional period until this law enters into force. But maybe just do this until the law comes into force, the one you're preparing for every political party to get on their website, publish the Members and everything you have, just like we did a year ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u264	Thank you so much for saying that. This time, as in the previous case, we have a law before us that has no financial implications. Even so far in these debates, when you have addressed our proposals for laws, there has been many arguments that laws have financial implications and are deepening the financial crisis. It is not the registration law that we have dealt with earlier and concerns the field of justice, nor does this law bring financial consequences and additional burdens on the state budget. Nor are such two laws actually appropriate, nor do they meet the standards of the coalition, so that in this principled debate, when we talk about the fundamental objectives, the principles of the law, the appropriateness of the solutions, and so on, at least get the agreement that the law would go into further proceedings and that the coalition would then, with its amendments, slightly add to it in those parts where it is necessary. Speaking of whether certain solutions are constitutional or unconstitutional, I think that these arguments from the position of representatives of the executive branch are somewhat exaggerated. For constitutionality is established in some particular procedure of an institution. What we propose with this solution in this law has not yet been judged in this law, not all constitutionally. One part, Your Honor, was, not everything. And the solutions are a little different than the ones that were judged. And I think that these judgments on certain matters coming into the legislative process should only have some distance and should only be judged from the point of view that an institution or body may have but not go beyond the point of view. I also note that transparency, transparency of cancer is an early coalition. Today we have a proposal in terms of transparency. We have been deceiving that determined things will open up so that they will become visible and transparent. This is already the second law for the kind to which the government coalition and also the Government have presented positions that are against the solutions that we have proposed, but all solutions in the previous law and also in this law are such as to call for, in fact, to make matters transparent. Now we can ask ourselves why the solutions we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party, which lead to transparency, which open up some of the things that are closed so far, disrupting the coalition and the government. What is the problem of such solutions in the judicial system and also in this law when talking about the property of officials? If we want to get an answer, we can also get it by finding that the coalition is obviously a fear of control, especially a fear of public control and the possibility of public scrutiny of certain situations, such as in the register of justice, in the case of criminal proceedings or in the case of a work concerning the property of officials. I do not know why there is so much resistance in this coalition in this sphere to such demands, such proposals as are proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have no problem with making our assets transparent to be transparent. It is also more or less because it is published publicly on our website. Interestingly, in fact, those who are called upon to improve transparency systems, transparency systems, do not allow it and reject it. The position of the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, which concerns this area, would be quite interesting or also interesting. Until such time as these records and those data are not public, they can be manipulated, until then it is possible to steal and extract from the archives, from the files a separate document and so on, and so on and so on. Once these matters become public, verifiable, even in a direct environment, it is a little more difficult to manipulate such matters about the situation. I understand a certain problem in coalition parties, because at least for some officials it is known that they also have assets in postal mailboxes and I understand that such officials are not interested, they are not willing to make the assets on some "offshore addresses" transparent, transparent, accessible to the public become public. I understand such intent in this coalition. I think that d is actually crucial to resisting the fact that this property is not even a small number on such addresses. This is not a single case, this is a number of cases, this is a lot of cases, it's probably also a very influential person who doesn't want such a thing to open up and show to the public, and it's actually the best way to protect himself from public issues and see that the property is closed, that the property is hidden. We had a case recently when it was discovered that one of the officials had lied about his assets, that he had hidden an important part of his assets to the public, that he had immediately appeared on electronic media, on television, the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, where he showed some letter that he had reported it. This was not done by an official who had denied the public part of the property, but was defended by the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission. In fact, it is very interesting that even from that paper, which, although covered in that part with "edigs", it is said that it was obvious that it was repaired, or sooner or later, the second question is that it is not visible and it is evident that not all assets are recorded in all legal persons who were then quoted in the media and are obviously also in these specified shares. I think for some hygiene in the country, for some rating, if you want, that officials in the country should have, healthy and appropriate, that property is also public. We know a lot about officials or persons in other countries, how much property they have; in some Western democracies this is not the case. However, it is very difficult to find out or discover how much Mugabe has in various accounts, while its people suffer intensely the consequences of the worst food crisis Zimbabwe has experienced after years of successful development. I do not think it is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and not in our interest to hide certain assets that are in one way or another, but usually illegally, collected on various "offshore addresses" across foreign countries. I think we should ask ourselves once whether we are on such a point that our officials hide property under foreign addresses and in countries where they do not get paid, in which they also probably create a lot of this property, and do not pay all taxes because of it, but they get a national salary from taxes. I think that such matters are, in fact, extremely necessary and necessary. Sometimes I also have serious concerns about the quality of the work of the anti-corruption commission. We recently had this case, even at a previous meeting held in early March, when the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission found a conflict after five years, a discrepancy between profitable activity and the exercise of a post. Five years! And it was the top official of this country. It was a Member of the European Parliament. There are only seven of them and each time they gave their information on the property status and functions they perform. And in five years, nothing came up. Just now that some interest has emerged, there is a need for certain objectives in this country, which the coalition has, to regulate, to initiate this process and process. We have previously processed all the local officials in the previous term, all the municipal councillors, we have received lists on the media, how many those officials who are municipal councilors and participate in business differently with a legal person who is a local community or is a state. There we were introduced to zero, and there were also calls for mayors to initiate procedures for the municipal council to relieve the saints. That's interesting. However, we do not have any tools for those who perform high-level functions in this country to come to a purely similar relationship and to similar situations. And everything that's hidden, everything that's not public, everything that's not publicly verifiable, has a mark of some mystery, and I think that a responsible policy would probably do anything for the responsible coalition to get me public information on the assets and its top officials. We have also had a case in the previous term, when, for example, one of the officials just misinterpreted the border in Brnik and it was what was, treated as an anti-corruption act, but no one characterised anything in some other actions, some other actions, nothing in the case of various collectors, but with them in co-ownership or perhaps otherwise had entitlements, ownership shares and similar top officials of this country. Until we see to it that those who manage enormous funds in the public interest accept that their part, because it works in the public interest, their part of the assets, their public property, will probably have great problems until then also with the persecution of various forms of corruption in some other cases. I think it's actually a prerequisite for prevention if we're going to do something serious in this area. And the public is one of the key preventive measures. The publicity of the assets of officials operating with enormous public funds is also our decision here, and the executive officers are still managing them and in what other way they are working, tendering and similar is, in fact, crucial. If we want to take the first step of the alphabet in order to establish appropriate instruments and proper control over whether or not there are certain acts of corruption and crime, whether it is customerism or not. As long as we hide behind some things that are forbidden, which are taboos of darkness, which mean the key to certain actions being able to happen differently than otherwise, then we are not assisted by any commission, not by Kosovo, nor by any other commission. For it is necessary to know that these commissions make political decisions in one way or another. There are no absolute objective circumstances, no absolute objective criteria and criteria. The treatment of everyone in this country is not the same, but these matters are subjective. It may be a funny thing for a member of the National Assembly, but it might be good if we were to pursue such things in some other way. I therefore suggest that the Government and the coalition in the National Assembly seriously consider whether it would not suggest taking the first step and taking the first letter of the alphabet, that is prevention, and prevention means that these matters are actually public. Until our property is verifiable until we can hide it in various ways and it will be the subject of some such or other public rumours, until then we in this country cannot actually establish some serious steps to control property and not to prevent corruption, money laundering and similar matters. I know that these things are sometimes hard for someone to listen to, but it might be good to think about whether this is actually the case, or whether it's a prerequisite for us to fight corruption, a situation like this. And I'm sure that's not a good situation. I therefore suggest that you reconsider your decisions and, at least at this principle level, if you cannot do otherwise, support the good purpose/objective of the law before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Matevž Frangež will not discuss it. Madam Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Respectable proponents, this law of yours, ours, which has been in the government for a month, in the parliamentary procedure, is not written for these, second, ten purposes, but is written as a reflection of the time we live in, of the phenomena that appear to us in society, of the harmful phenomena that we witness, of the growing mistrust of people in the functioning of public authority of all kinds, of all colors and therefore not of ours and of yours. And it's not fair that we don't show when we're dealing with these kind of issues of fundamental honesty and people, if it's by chance that someone is watching, of course, we're telling the truth. At the beginning of the presentation of the Government's position, I made it clear that we are fully accepting the basic solutions to the law that you proposed in the SDS Group, in works which are in conformity with the Constitution. I have made it clear why the public of property, as proposed in Article 7, when you say it, is problematic. The information on property referred to in Article 4, paragraph 1, of this Law is proposed to be public, irrespective of the restrictions imposed by the law on the protection of personal data and tax confidentiality. The information referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be published on the Court of Auditors’ website. You have already proposed such an arrangement in 2006, when you were the government and you were the majority in Parliament. I initially cited the Constitutional Court, which said why entire property could even jeopardise the right to personal security, so that I do not repeat this quote from the Constitutional Court decision. Mr Gorenak was more honest, he said, we know that to publish all the data the Constitutional Court has judged this and said that it is not fully in conformity with the Constitution. He suggested to the Government that it might be possible to invite those who are touched by it not to initiate an assessment of this arrangement in the Constitutional Court, but peace would be. Admit it, Mr. Gorenak, this is where your debate went. Here. We cannot, we have not committed, you in your proposal, also our proposal for a law on integrity, which has been in the National Assembly for a month, is the same in the majority. There are at least 5,000 people here. How can we ask one of them not to judge such an interference in personal data if the Constitutional Court has already said that it is not? And please, there's been a government law in Parliament for a month. And it's not fair, but I'm sure you've read it, that you're reading it to the government, that it's afraid of control, that we don't want to be, ruling today, transparent, etc. When we have regulated the data in exactly the same way as you propose in this partial regulation, we have taken into account only the minimum standards to which the Constitutional Court warns and incorporated them into the law. And the proposal I initially asked for, and I am sure that he will receive support, is such. The bill, which I hope for, Mr Gorenak, will be dealt with on the Internal Policy Committee for the second week and further elaborated in the direction of better solutions for which we are open - Article 46 says: Firstly, the income and property data of the debtors are, irrespective of the restrictions imposed by the Law on the Protection of Personal Data and Tax Secrets, publicly available in the work relating to income and property acquired during the period of public office or activity. Second paragraph. The Anti-Corruption Commission, for which I find that we are all united, is an independent body that retains the tasks of preventive action in the field of corruption and continues to publish, at its website, information on income and property obtained during the period of public office or activity, on the personal name and function of the debtor, a permanent residence. These addresses, pointed out by the Constitutional Court, are also linked to the security aspect of senior officials, and this is one of those moments where they estimate that they overly intervene in personal data but would not satisfy the public at the point of publication of the temporary and permanent residences of the individual. The following, which will be published publicly: ownership or shares and number of shares and rights in the company, establishment or private activity, with the name of the company or the name of the organisation, ownership or shares in shares and management rights in the company, the institution and so on, with a description of the activities and designation of the company or the name of the organisation, on the annual income base of the income, on the number and value of the real estate, on the total value of the assets in banks, savings and food services, if it exceeds EUR 10,000, on the total value of the cash in excess of EUR 10,000, on the total value of the securities, if it exceeds EUR 10,000, on the total value of the debts, liabilities or default guarantees, if it exceeds EUR 10,000, on the total value of the loans in excess of EUR 10,000, on the value of which it does not allow them to be identified. It's paragraph three. The data referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be published online in a manner that allows for their comparability before, during and after the performance of the function. This is a solution that is exactly the same as yours. In an important part, we define what we consider not to be an intervention in the personal sphere of an individual, but still define, in terms of public function, those important input data that will allow the public concerned to assess that funds with unfair behaviour have not been obtained during and after the period of the function. Therefore, the public of the data is in the new law, which is in Parliament at second reading, waiting to be examined for a month, and the public is provided only by taking into account the warning given in the decision of the Constitutional Court. Thus, the evidence given to the government about its intention to be untransparent does not hold back. I hope that proof that quoting a law that is no longer a government, which is already a national council, does not hold this serious judgment. The question and an indication of the necessary speed of the Government's regulation or Mr Pukšič said when the Government would give a comprehensive package of anti-corruption legislation. You will all remember that already in 2009, in May, we started a public debate on this law. In the course of this public debate, a lot of useful information was sent to the interested public, which we have put in place in the law. You know, however, that in the basic proposal, the proposal on the incompatibility of the Member and the mayoral function was based on conflicts of interest embedded in the function itself, not on the people who perform these functions. The agreement, not to mention, then the members of the coalition proposed systematically through the amendment of the Law on Members this regime, which failed. It will be proposed again by the end of the year. This has already been reported to the public. Therefore, it was not until January at the Government that we confirmed this proposal for a law on integrity without this incompatibility. That was the only reason. However, you know that the regulation was already in public debate in May 2009. I fully agree with the debate of colleague Mir Petk that we must approach the zero level of corruption. When we were preparing this legislation, i.e. a comprehensive package, as Mr Pukšič said in anti-corruption legislation, we were just pursuing the objective of how, through public sector measures, public confidence in the work of public authorities could also be achieved through appropriate systemic measures. In view of the late hours, I do not want to burden the respected assembly with the solutions that are in the amendment of the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, but merely with the indications that we are regulating not only the anti-corruption commission as a preventive body, but also with the issue of principle opinions, as well as with the preparation of integrity plans with the public sector, also with cooperation with the media, with civil society, with this network which is of exceptional importance and must be seen under the fingers of the public authority. This independent body will continue to be more independent from our assessment. We propose to be appointed by the President of the State, supervised by the Parliamentary National Assembly Commission. The number of members of the Commission is decreasing. There are five officers today, three of them under the new regime. We're doing an important job, it's protecting the applicants. Many, even in surveys - are public, but they say a lot, some of you today have expressed skepticism that they cannot be trusted, yet people say we are afraid to report because we are afraid that we will be bullied in the workplace by the chairman. We regulate the protection of the reporting agents of corruption in an important way, where the Commission then connects with the police and the state prosecutor, so that the criminal law makes arrangements for such a witness to be safe. Lobby is one of the areas where we want lobbying to remain as a positive, good practice, expressing the interests of target groups, but also to order how public authorities should behave when they meet with lobbyists. And this framework, comparable to the way in which the European Commission works and already too many members of the European Union are introduced as some kind of beginning of work in this area. The anti-corruption clause in contracts where public funds are being spent will have to be described on the basis of this proposal of the law as an anti-corruption clause with the content prescribed by law, the nullity of transactions which will not have such a clause or the nullity of business, where participants will act in a way that is prohibited in the anti-corruption clause, will be the consequence of civil law and however, we are wasting public resources on public authorities, and such a clause is necessary, according to our assessment. We are fully regulated by significantly stricter restrictions on the operation of officials, the share today is 20% when the official may be the owner of a company that can operate with the country. This percentage is reduced to 5%. I think that a set of some solutions that I have now outlined, honourable Members and Members, will draw your attention to the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption. I am sure that the support for the debate of the opposition Members I witnessed today will also be 100 per cent. I see no reason why all these positive systemic forms, including the public property of the officials, would not be supported, and thus, as a policy, as public authority, show people that they want to play their roles in this Slovenian space honestly. Respectable proponents, the proposal to support this law of yours and then to upgrade it with solutions is problematic at a point where you only regulate one chapter of the ten chapters governed by the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption. And this one chapter, which you are regulating, is very much the same in this law, which is now awaiting second treatment. Your proposal is accepted, but adapted to the decision of the Constitutional Court. And you can't say we're looking arrogantly at your suggestions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Proposer of the law, Mr. Chernač. Mrs. Tanko, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u268	Thank you so much for saying that. In order not to leave things unfinished, I would like to say that we proposed a similar solution to the law last June. In June or shortly thereafter, this law was also rejected. And since nothing has happened in this area at this time, we have also introduced this law with this solution. I don't understand why it was necessary to wait a year or more for you to have a similar solution, as we suggested, long ago, now somehow adapted and arranged into your marriage. This could all work, but it could all work, because the coalition didn't decide to back it up at the time, and there were no solutions. And we've done, I don't know, two or three circles, in between, we've re-proposed the law, and now the government has made something. And that's how these coalition processes are running in this country. This is not the only law that has such a destiny that when something is presented, some arguments are found and the law is rejected. Then a great vacuum is made to probably arrange certain relations, then the opposition resubmits the law and then the government comes with a solution that says the matter is adopted in some way. Why do we need so many laps? Something similar is happening, for example, in the agricultural land law, which has been rejected twice, twice is promised what will happen. Since his last rejection, it has been more than half a year, and we do not yet have a law on agricultural land to regulate and bring some other degree of consent, such as in the case of comassations. And when we move on, we'll be opening up new things all the time. We're gonna go round a couple of hot sauce circles and then we're gonna go get something to eat. I think that in this case too, if this is true, as the Minister has said, that what we have proposed has been adopted, then it is true that it is crucial, in fact, who is proposing the law. The content proposed last June was acceptable, perhaps with minor corrections. This content, which is now submitted, is also acceptable with corrections. But because it's not coalition and because it's not government [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u269	Mr. Tanko, three minutes are up.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u270	It's fate. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u271	Three minutes for the replica is up!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u272	It's just that it's the way it is. [[...]] Unfortunately, we find that this story, which begins, just spins and repeats itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u274	Dear opposition, it's very difficult to please you. If we accept anything of yours, it's not right if we don't accept it. Now you've almost told me that you're offended because we've come up with a proposal about the public. It was already in the main proposal in May, since we were preparing it at the Ministry, the public. But it's completely irrelevant. Look, your proposal is complete, improved, I have no problem with that. But at least be happy because you keep saying that we arrogantly reject all your suggestions. Speed in the adoption of laws is not necessarily good. I have to tell you, this is not a crisis rule. The unconstitutional situation in this area has been in place since 2007, when the Constitutional Court has repealed a significant part of the provisions of the Real Estate Act and certain things have to be constitutionally harmonised, but the anti-corruption commission has been in effect and so on; I will not return to the past. Speed in adopting laws and measuring the power of each current government by the amount of laws it is able to bring to Parliament - forget it! Because if this logic continues to apply, we will legally blame this Slovenian space even more than it has already been given. It's not possible. Now we need to clear up the old legislation in a way to review all the obstacles, all the problems that, due to the speed of entry into European and other integrations of adapting our legal order with very fast procedures, have been translated, translated into our legal order. A lot of things don't work for us, and at some point, that's what old people, respectable people, creators of the Slovenian legal order are talking about, so that we have to stop, review legislation, review regulations and balance this field. And it's very difficult. We have 50 regulations under the law, 60. What was the policy in some area, you don't even know it anymore. This is a problem for the European Commission, the members of the European Union, and it is also our problem. Let's be rational and give ourselves time to analyze the situation in specific areas, see if the policies that are enshrined in the laws have worked or are not working or are achieving effects, or if this legislation can be simplified. I'll tell you from my life and work experience that it's not a problem of the speed of judgment, not of the administrative authorities, the problem is the rules. The problem is the procedures which define such a chain of proceedings by an administrative or judicial authority. Believe me, in law practice, I know whether the problem is human or whether the problem is regulation. We have problems with regulations, which are also very unclear, which give different interpretations, but for each different interpretation, a different opinion of the legal profession can be identified by policy as speculative or, if you want, a corruption purpose in such a different interpretation. It's a very difficult thing to do, and we're not going to get far when we're in the middle of an emergency with regulations, comparing the amount of laws we've passed in a year. Old democracies, look, one marriage works for three years. They make cost benefit analysis of the impact of each policy, evaluate the old with a new one, assess the impact on everything: on people, on small businesses, medium. These are major studies before decision makers decide whether a new regulation is needed at all or whether an area can be regulated by the enforcement of the existing one and so on. Please, we are a country of our own, we have the right to decide whether or not to change the laws of the current lane. During a period of time until 2004, it had to be done, but now it is not. Or we will examine what we have and purify and allow people who decide that they will be able to provide more legal security for our citizens. Yes, your proposal is incorporated into the law on integrity, in a constitutional manner, so I expect you to support the law on integrity at the meeting of the parent working body, together with the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Černač, the bill-maker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u276	Thank you very much. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to start by saying a few words about the procedure. I don't know why this call is happening all the time, but this time we are witnessing some of the fairs that the opposition is proposing, so there is no voting on this at the end of the debate. I assume that this is decided by the President of the National Assembly, or the College, where the ruling coalition has a majority. And it would be good if, through different decisions, it could be possible to address the proposals proposed by the opposition to allow the presence of Members in the Chamber to be increased. There's a tenth of the national council here right now. I have to say that my colleagues and colleagues understand clearly that they are not sitting here because they are not being sanctioned in any way if they are not here today. That's exactly how they'll get their salary. But some six months ago, we accidentally went to the bathroom for the third time, we were not in the hall for 10 minutes, we came back, we even discussed the meeting, and they tore our pay for that day. I think this is wrong, and it would also be good, from the point of view of the drawing, for this timetable to be done by sitting in the Chamber of several Members. With the Government summarizing our proposals in its law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, I cannot fully agree. One part of this is quite summed up, but the concept of this government law is completely different, as was the concept of the law that we proposed on 16 June, which has now been reintroduced. One of the major changes that may not seem so important to anyone, but it is very important, is that this law, which today provides for a fine, is the removal of what is found not to have been declared. I think that we have discussed this very much in the first reading of this law and that it does not matter how many articles the law has, it is important what is written in this law. And here I have to agree with the Minister that we have a hyper-standard system, not only in the field of her ministry, but in the area of the whole country, so it would be good for some direction from her predecessor to continue to clean up the matter first on the sub-legislative acts so that this excessive matter will be reduced and continued in the legislative field. Not by creating legal voids, but by having rules in a logical order and not by standardizing what is not to be normated. Here a rule applies, there is less, if it is too written, there are more questions, there are more possibilities for such or different interpretations and the effect is just the opposite as it should be. This is also why this law, which we have proposed, and the government proposal cannot be judged by the number of articles and by the content, but can be judged primarily through the solutions presented by both proposals. If there are no sanctions and if these sanctions are not such as to ensure some effectiveness, then all these applications do not help us much. If the sanctions on the confiscation of undeclared property were already in force in the current legislation, I am firmly convinced that there would be no such cases. If those to whom this area is placed under control are specifically the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption at present, this mission will also be carried out in a manner that is right to carry it out. It is said that from all these cases I would take a few of them every year and thoroughly check them. I don't remember ever being a witness to that. The law we proposed had a basic purpose to increase transparency in the functioning of public officials and, on the other hand, to ensure preventive action in the area of corruption and clienteleism. This purpose, in our view, would be achieved through the public publication of this asset situation by simplifying the procedures and by decommissioning the competent with certain administrative procedures and by a greater role in the comparison of the assets prior to the performance of the function, during and at the conclusion of the function and, of course, some time after that. As we discussed this in the middle of last year, and even today, there was a great deal of appreciation in this Chamber for the work of the Commission to prevent corruption, how effective it is, how strong it has a reputation in the public and so on. You know, if you ask people if they're anti-corruption and if they're supporting the body that stands up for it, they're all in favour. There is no doubt about that, for the very word itself points to support. However, we who make decisions in the National Assembly need to ask ourselves whether a body, particularly in this area, is effective after how many such or other legal opinions it produces, how many such or different procedures it initiates, and against whom, or how many cases it manages to determine that something is wrong with them and how many of them it has taken into account. There's something similar about the other repressive authorities, the police and the D.A. Unfortunately, we in Slovenia are not yet at this point, such as many around us, when measuring the effectiveness of these organs through annual reports, through the means they spend. Somewhere outside, it will not happen that someone who has investigated 20 cases over the past five years, 19 of which fall into further procedures to keep this business going. It will not be because, as you said earlier, they are also evaluating outside through the means used for certain activities, efficiency. We in our country have quite a few cases of people who have been in the same place for 30 years, headed by some prosecutor's office, who have conducted very receptive procedures, and have spent a lot of taxpayer's money, all of which have fallen in line. More. In one of these very receptive procedures, it was the suspicion of money laundering, that the person who had been in this process for five years had even received back everything that had been taken away from him, back, along with all the legitimate late payment and all the compensation that had been paid due to the violent act of the unwarranted, unwarranted. This happens in one of ten cases, even in two cases, but it can't happen in nine out of ten. There is no evaluation of these procedures in our system and there is no effective control over this. The same applies to the Anti-Corruption Commission. I'm sorry. As a result, we have argued that the part that can be simplified is simplified by some publication, where not much is needed, and that the role of these organs in the field where it should be more active. Of course, there is also a need to deal with such or other political temptations in this case. We must tell the truth lovingly that this President of the Commission was not exactly immune to this, because otherwise I cannot imagine how such an example could have been found now that the European Parliament is incompatible with a certain seat in a supervisory council. For five years this situation has been going on, and now it suddenly turns out to be incompatible. How is it possible that this has now been established? It was found because of this, I think we are not all blind, probably, and that we know what this is about: because this lady has become disturbed in that seat because she did not want to accept certain pressures after the replacement of the Director. That was the only reason. And it had to be publicly discredited, first of all, following an old established practice, as we have seen in this mandate, by the way that this NEK decommissioning fund was not doing well, which was proved to be not so, and then by the formal procedure, that it was first at the State Assembly's Mandate Commission and then here. I agree that you have those who rule, given the majority, the full possibility of doing so. But tell the public you want to do this, and just do it. You don't have to discredit people and pet them. So this act is twice dirty on your part, not just once. Above all, you don't have to say what you said two years ago, how you're not going to replace any and you're going to be in power because you're sitting on those chairs better than on those chairs. Similar cases are still common, as some of them are in circulation. One relates to this building of the National Investigation Office, where we are likely to see a conclusion after the issue is no longer up to date. There are also many other cases that suggest that, in cases of political interest or other interest, procedures are initiated on the basis of anonymous applications, without any material background, and cases where they are not initiated, despite the fact that these matters are officially known. And one step in preventing this from happening is this law, which would increase transparency in this area through these public announcements. The evidence of this law was that this commission was to be abolished. I think we have already said this several times that this does not hold true, that this part of the responsibility regarding the assets of officials is transferred to the Court of Auditors and that in the rest of these tasks remain. The second part, which was presented by the Minister, was mainly of a formal nature, a relevant consideration in two essential points. The first is that it is not possible to transfer the powers in this section to the Court of Auditors if this is based on a decision of the Constitutional Court. This Decision can be interpreted in one way or another. I allow it to be interpreted this way, but in this decision of the Constitutional Court, published in the Official Journal on 13 April 2007, the Court of Auditors assessed the delegation of powers to the Parliamentary Commission at that time. In this regard, it has been said that the Commission of the National Assembly also supervises the officials of the State authorities, which the Constitution provides them with an independent and independent position, and the National Assembly has no direct or indirect powers or powers under the Constitution in relation to them, and so on. However, due to their constitutional functions, some authorities in this country have an important impact on the functioning of the brake and balance system. And then explicitly mentions the Constitutional Court that there are two such bodies, namely the Ombudsman and the Court of Auditors. Thus, in the Constitutional Court’s view, the Court of Auditors is a body which, through its constitutional position, could guarantee independence also in the case of the tasks we wanted to entrust it with this law. And another matter, as regards the publication of the state of property of officials, on which the Constitutional Court has in some way already assessed and judged as stated by the Minister. But now it's a new marriage. It has to come to a re-assessment if you want to get to the same position. Such an assessment could also have occurred, but it is interesting, when we recently passed a law on the 90% tax of the former Prime Minister of the New LB, this was not a problem, despite the fact that in this case there will be, in my opinion, direct financial and material consequences, because when this tax is withdrawn, there will certainly be a complaint and then an assessment. And this provision, if the Constitutional Court, and I assume that, using the same vat, will be abolished, which means that the state budget, taxpayers, will have to pay this million-dollar prize back to this gentleman in three years' time, together with legitimate late payments and all the costs of the procedure. This will be a concrete material result of such a decision and such a law, which was adopted in the National Assembly and for which we have voted quite unanimously, the truth is loving. But that wasn't the problem. But when it's not about direct material consequences, that's the problem. No material consequences if those to which the data relate agree. Of course, the problem is also the scope of these officials. In this proposal, we have not summarized all those who, in our view, do not belong to this law, 4,000 municipal saints in the country. But we went down to the mayor's level, as a mayor, no matter how he does this function, professionally or unprofessionally, and all the other officers. It is my opinion that, with the appropriate public support and with the appropriate support of the National Assembly, this provision would not be opposed and would slowly become a standard that everyone would not have been able to declare their assets in the future, regardless of whether it would have been written in the law or not, because of the public's voice. That would be standard. And that's what I think is very important. We can write into the law without knowing what it is, whether those to whom these things relate, through their attitude and through their actions hold it without being forced by the law. That's why we published all this data last year in the middle of the year. And I must say that I was very disappointed at the reaction of both colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly who were making a fool of it, as well as by some of the media, who were also wiping the fool out of it and bringing into this story some impossible thing. For example, this law states that the property of officials, not family members, children of minors, is published and I do not know who. And since we did not publish shares, say, New KBM, which we bought for children in the public sale process at the time, it was a big problem because the law does not foresee this, but it is worth, I don't know, 200 euros, say. However, it was no other problem, but some assets that were valued at several hundred or several thousand euros were worth a few hundred thousand or a few million euros. That wasn't the problem. This is therefore this perception of the public, which is not the perception of the general public, but also the perception of the work of the political public and the perception of the work of the media which is bad. It has been said that you all agree that this property is made public. This is also why this proposal of yours has a limited scope of publication. But, look, I don't know if we all agree on sanctions in such a case where someone acts contrary to the provisions of the law and the scope of those sanctions. In the National Assembly, we have recently considered the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Detection, Seizure and Seizure of the Proceeds of Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism, which stipulates in Article 4, paragraph 3, that "Each Contracting Party shall take such legislative or other measures as may be necessary to ensure that, in the event of a serious crime or an offence defined by national law, the perpetrator of the offence manifests the origin of the alleged property benefit or other property which may be taken if such a requirement is in accordance with the principles of its national law." And, look, your government has expressed its reservations to this provision. A reservation in the sense that Slovenia reserves the right not to apply the fourth paragraph of this Article of the Convention. We tabled an amendment, and it wasn't even a day to vote because of procedural complications. Thus, even through such practices, the seriousness of such or other intentions is shown. And for that reason, I think that if our marriage is not supported tomorrow, there will be a lot of changes to be made. Otherwise, of course, it cannot be supported. It is also interesting that the European Central Bank did not have a problem with public disclosure of the assets of its officials. When we tabled this law last year in the middle of the year, the President of the National Assembly held back a further legislative procedure until we get the opinion of the European Central Bank, because the law also applies to bankers, if I simplify it, or to members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia. And the European Central Bank has made it very clear in this opinion that there are no reservations about the public's assets of officials. Thus, Europe in some area, which I think is even more problematic and does not directly relate to what it wants to regulate, has no reservations. Here, however, there are very serious reservations and concerns on the part of the Government regarding this publication. We cannot expect miracles from this law as we cannot expect from this government law. However, this area is very important in how and how provisions in laws that are potentially dangerous to create conditions for corruption are taking place. We have recently had such an example, a law on public procurement, two laws, a law on public procurement and the one in transport and other areas. And there the government and the ruling coalition voted to amend the article, which says that, in the case of the choice of the provider under the scheme, the most favourable criteria, which were previously set at 40-60 and 60-40, the price remained to be created by any means. And this is the condition that the price must be at least 40% and 60%, respectively. It is said that the price can be zero or 1%. This means that one subscriber will pay a million euros for an intellectual service and the other 100,000 euros. I don't want to be in the skin of those who make these decisions, because in the eyes of the public they will potentially be corrupt. And that's bad, because it creates an impression of corruption where it doesn't exist. And it was one good purpose by the opposition, specifically the SDS, to leave this provision alone, because nothing limits the choice of the most favourable bidder, even taking into account all the other parameters, and there was a insistence that this matter should be deleted. Why? I don't see one clever reason, except for the one I mentioned that would cause more harm than good. This law, which you have passed in the government, deals with the area of lobbying. And lobbying, it is said, is permitted to operate lobbyists who include paid forms of public influence paid to lobbyists on the decision-making of public authorities and local authorities and holders of public authority in the handling and adoption of regulations and other general acts, and on the decision-making of state and local authorities and holders of public authority in other matters, other than those subject to judicial and administrative proceedings, and procedures carried out in accordance with the rules governing public procurement and other procedures where the rights and obligations of individuals are decided. Each lobbying action shall be considered to be any retaliation, non-disclosure of the lobbyist's contact with lobbyists who intends to influence the content or procedure of the above-mentioned decisions, laws, decisions and so on. I advise you to throw this area out of marriage because I can't imagine what the police will do if this is accepted. That is, a concrete example: before the Janšev term of office, you passed a law on so-called car stickers when you had to put the sticker on the bar in order to register - completely unnecessary, without any valid reason - even if you had to leave it to the authorized worker and pay for it for a while. Then they changed so you could be alone. In a few years, this sticker has cost taxpayers several billion former Slovenian tolars throughout the country. It was abolished in the mandate of the Janša government. The opposition, expressly SD, objected to this suspension. And now I imagine that in the future someone will come and find out that there is a need for a label that will register as a lobbyist, who will properly abuse the law that will enforce it and will legally be able to get paid for this lobbying. Something like this is going to happen in a tic-tac-tac-system, or not just what it's called when it was shut down on highways, where every time you went through that ABC, it dripped into some little bit of a cent. It was a payment for each pass. And there's probably going to be some cases like this. And everyone will be legal in accordance with the law. What happens in the National Assembly, when they try to enforce the best possible solutions in public interest and when they try to convince someone else about it, will not be allowed. This will be corrupt, because we as politicians, even if we don't get one cappuccino for it, we can't do that. But if someone who's registered as a lobbyist does that, it'll be legitimate, even if it's not in the public interest, and it'll be paid well. And such cases, ladies and gentlemen, have already occurred in the past, because we know who the lobbyists were in this country, and we also know which solutions or the postponement of certain solutions that were not adopted within the deadline have been involved. Let us recall the case when a first aid box rule was to be adopted, which all car drivers must have, and when, according to some logic, the contents and dimensions of this box were precisely prescribed to the millimeter, what it could be, just the same and nothing different. There could be no first aid box that you can buy across the border in Austria or Italy. No, that's not right, even though we are in the European Union. But exactly what someone in Slovenia is making. And of course we are talking about tens of millions of euros, in some cases hundreds of millions of euros. And it is normal for such a great service, if it happens through the legislative process as you speak here in the bill, to be paid. And after this bill, it will be legitimate. It's the only thing he's not supposed to do. However, if a politician does something good for the public benefit, it is not said twice that he will not be condemned in accordance with the same law and without payment, that we understand that he will not be condemned or accused in accordance with the same law, condemned in any way or in any way, but that the politicians are enough to be accused and that he is already convicted of corruption. These are very dangerous relationships, Your Honor. I took this opportunity because you quoted this marriage of yours. And I'm putting this clause into your mind. I believe that they were completely well-intentioned, but I doubt that Slovenia or democracy in Slovenia is ripe to make such decisions. I suggest you support our marriage for now and we think about these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u277	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it? No one but Madam Minister. I've got two. I'm not filing. Madam Secretary, please. You have the floor, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u278	Mr Černač, that is why I have come to the floor, because the lobbying regime, as you have just presented it, has completely misunderstood. Lobby is a constitutional category in America, we do not deal with this issue in Europe for the time being, but the European Commission is in 2006 and I think that the Member States have agreed to deal with this issue in a transparent way. It is primarily about regulating the behaviour of public authorities towards those who express the different interests of interested organisations, and this is undeniably desirable and welcome practice. But not against the payment, against the gift, against the payment which is given to the lobbied, to do something that is not in the public interest. The European Commission has arranged this through voluntary registration of lobbyists. These are all lists, public. And public authorities, MPs, ministers, and so on, are obliged to ask the person who comes, whether he is a registered lobbyist or looked into the public register. And this is where our proposed practice goes. In the regulation we have taken into account the guidelines of OECD Member States or organisations as such, i.e. the recommendations of the thirty most developed due to this growing phenomenon, which in a significant part goes beyond healthy lobbying, which is an integral part of everyday normal democracy. So this part, let us discuss the draft law at hand. About the fines, about the fines, about the questions you quoted not to deal with. They're regulated in the new law. The depths are fixed, they're very high. The Anti-Corruption Commission is a proponent of a criminal procedure or may also impose fines. What was missing in the old regulation and defined the anti-corruption committee as a harmless tiger is now an integral part of this regulation. The municipal councilors are no longer those responsible for reporting, but there are several other categories for which we have estimated that the assessment of the work area they are carrying out - these are the people in the procurement commissions - of this nature and that they are making an important decision on the use of public funds, that it is right that public servants are also among those who report to the commission on their assets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u279	Thank you. And Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Well, I was talking about that part of the law, our marriage, which is about taking away that property that's not reported. That's an essential difference. But the fines are prescribed in yours and in our law. Look, I'll read again, "the act of lobbying is considered by any unpaid lobbyist contact with lobbyists who intends to influence the content or procedure of making the above-mentioned decisions." What decisions? Regulations and other general acts at national and local levels. Are government and local authorities obliged to adopt regulations and general acts in public interest? Are they obliged to accept for private benefit or for the benefit of a particular entity? If they are obliged to adopt regulations in public interest, then we do not need this provision. However, if we legalise decision-making on the basis of lobbying, as previously illustrated by a specific case, then we will in some way give the basis exactly what you want to prevent by this law. I agree that things are arranged in other countries. A lot of other things have been arranged in other countries. And many other things have not yet been arranged with us in Slovenia. But in this area, I fear that we will come into some strange situation where legal action will be the one that has signs of corruption in all the substantive elements and that corruption will be the one that has signs of public action in all the elements and modes of action. We're already on our way. Not only because of some recent cases, but also because of the perception of the public on a case-by-case basis. And if these two get mixed up, then I'm afraid it's going to be a big fiasco for this law, as well as for strengthening these anti-corruption practices in this country. I don't think the purpose you wanted to achieve with this will be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-25-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u281	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Friday, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, which is tomorrow, 26.3.2010, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 15th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good night!
