ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member: Jakob Presečnik and Dr Laszlo Göncz. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY – THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE RED CRIZE SLOVENIA LEGISLATION LEGISLATION LEGISLATION The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, Minister of Defence, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u2	Good morning, everyone! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you very much for being able to discuss with you the amendment of the Red Cross Act with a view to arranging a series of tasks, especially planning and carrying out these tasks in the municipalities. These are the tasks of the regional Red Cross organization and through them other local Red Cross organisations. Experience has shown us that so far enough has been sufficiently resolved or adequately resolved to implement the Red Cross programmes at the country level, namely those programmes implemented by the national organisation on the one hand, and co-financed in accordance with the legislation of the State level, so called the Administration for the Protection and Rescue of the Republic of Slovenia. However, the tasks relating to the protection against natural and other disasters, in the part under the jurisdiction of the congregations, are assessed as having not yet been adequately solved in all municipalities. We therefore propose that these tasks be defined more precisely in the annual programmes, that these annual programmes take into account the actual needs of the municipalities and then that the municipalities, on the basis of the agreed programmes, ensure co-financing or implementation of these programmes. The text of the law has also been supplemented and co-formulated by the Committee on Defence at its home work. The text we now have before us also covers all the proposals we have drawn up and discussed on the Defence Committee. In this activity, which we anticipate, we have included in the implementation of the programmes regional organisations, as we say, regional organisations of the Red Cross, because they cover all municipalities in Slovenia. Of course, we will also include local and other local Red Cross organisations in the implementation of programmes to be taken care of by regional organisations, but this can be taken into account when this law is being implemented. Once again, I stress what we have done on several occasions to address the addition of this law, namely that this law is without prejudice to the competence of the municipalities, not imposing or transferring tasks under the jurisdiction of the State to the congregations. It is true, though, that it is better and more accurate to regulate what the actual needs of the congregations are. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose and also expect you to support the proposal for the new Red Cross Act, because this will also support a large number of Red Cross activists who, as volunteers, are self-sufficient, working, self-sufficient and solidarity in helping and overcoming the many pressures of people everywhere in Slovenia, especially at the time of crisis, both economic and social. At the end of this introduction, please allow me to invite you to an annual traditional humanitarian event, the Red Cross concert, which will be held at the Cankarjev Home 25. 9. 2010 at 8 p.m. The Slovenian Army Orchestra will perform at this concert. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your support.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Joseph Jerovšk, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! At its 15th session, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia discussed the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Code on the Red Cross of Slovenia. Representatives of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Health, the State Council, the Red Cross of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia also participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the draft law, the opinion of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the opinion of the Council of State, the opinion of the Municipality of Domžale, the opinion of the Municipality of Ljubljana, the opinion of the Municipality of Velenje and the views of the Community of Slovene municipalities. In her opening presentation, Minister of Defence Ljubica Jelusic stressed that the basic objective of the bill is to better regulate the planning and implementation of the financing of tasks carried out by the regional organisations of the Red Cross of Slovenia at local level, in particular in the field of protection against natural and other disasters, health and social, humanitarian and charitable areas. The draft law provides that local communities shall co-finance the programmes and activities of the Red Cross of Slovenia on the basis of annual programmes, in accordance with the principles laid down for the use of public funds. The proposal provides that the proposals for programmes of regional associations to be co-financed by the municipalities shall be prepared in cooperation with the competent municipal authorities, so that the specific needs of the municipalities concerned are also taken into account. It was further said that the legislative proposal does not change the way the Red Cross is financed at national level and does not affect the constitutional rights of local communities, which themselves negotiate with the regional organisation of the Red Cross on specific needs in their areas. The representative of the Red Cross of Slovenia, Franz Koshir, explained that the Red Cross of Slovenia is organised as a society acting in the public interest and that some local communities already exercise public powers and some programmes will need to be provided with additional financial resources. Many volunteers are active in the regional and local Red Cross organisations, and this network should also be maintained in the future. It is the wish of the Red Cross of Slovenia to agree with the municipalities on programmes to be implemented at local level and on appropriate supervisory spending. The representative of the municipalities of Slovenia pointed out that in the community they are well aware of the importance of the Red Cross and can also evaluate it, but they estimate that the solutions proposed are not the most appropriate. In the Community, the community understands the State's intention to try to solve the problem of the operation of the Red Cross network of regional units, but it seems unacceptable to them that the municipalities will have to finance the operation of the Red Cross regional units beyond their will. In the debate, the members of the Committee focused on Article 2 of the draft law, while agreeing that stable funding should be provided for the effective functioning of the organisation of the Red Cross of Slovenia and its organisation in the future. The importance of regional associations and local Red Cross committees in the role of interlocutors to the congregations was highlighted. Most municipalities and their mayors carry out their responsibilities properly and financially support the implementation of the programmes, and it has been pointed out that funding for certain programmes has, in some cases, been hampered and left to the good will of individuals. The contracts concluded would ensure the smooth transparent implementation of the programmes. However, critical opinions were also expressed that this could mean compulsory funding by municipalities, without additional funding provided to municipalities. The representatives of the proposers ensured that this was an obligation which must be agreed and not binding. Furthermore, the desire was expressed that the amendment of the law would make it possible to improve the quality of relations in Slovenian society, with a focus on humanitarianism, and the possibility of favouring the Red Cross was highlighted in relation to other organisations operating in specific areas. In its consideration of the articles of the legislative proposal, the Committee, pursuant to Article 131, paragraph 8, drafted and adopted its amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 5. In the light of the amendments adopted, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes all amendments, is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Here comes the presentation of the parliamentary groups. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Joško Godec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues, others present! The position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Red Cross Act is as follows: In the DeSUS Group, we are aware of the importance that the Red Cross of Slovenia has as a national organisation or as a association of regional associations in the exercise of public powers and their activities, which is voluntary, independent, non-profit-making and non-governmental. [[..]] The tasks performed by the Red Cross of Slovenia are precisely defined in the Red Cross of Slovenia Act and, in the opinion of the proposed amendment, the specific tasks of the law in the humanitarian field, in the field of social protection and in the various caritative activities and programmes which are usually adapted to the needs, conditions and opportunities of individual areas, particularly within local communities. Following the provision of the proposal, the draft law is in line with the provisions of the resolution on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters in the years 2009-2015, which provides in Chapter 9.2 for the provision of financial and other resources after the years 2009-2015. The draft law thus provides that local communities shall co-finance the programmes and activities of the Red Cross of Slovenia on the basis of annual programmes and in accordance with the principles laid down for the use of public funds. The beneficiaries of these funds and the regional organisations shall be obliged to take care of the introduction of programmes and to report accordingly to the competent authorities of the local community. The relationship between local communities and regional organisations shall be governed by contract. The proposal provides that the proposals for programmes of regional associations to be co-financed by the municipality shall be prepared in cooperation with the competent municipal authorities, so that the specific needs of the municipalities to which the programme relates are also taken into account. In accordance with the Community funding system, the competent municipal authorities should decide each year at what level they will co-finance the programmes of regional associations. In particular, the tasks set out in points 1 and 4 of Article 11(1) of the Law on the Financing of the Communities shall apply. The proposal of the law, according to the applicant's assurances and our assessment, is without prejudice to the system of financing the tasks that are under the jurisdiction of the municipalities. It ensures that the programmes of the regional associations of the Red Cross of Slovenia, which are important for the municipalities, are prepared on the basis of uniform starting points and are adapted to the actual needs of the municipalities. In the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, the network of activities of the Red Cross of Slovenia operates in 12 regions, 56 regional associations and 914 local organisations of the Red Cross of Slovenia, on the one hand, implementing their programmes of 210 municipalities. These data show the dispersion of the organisation of activities of the Red Cross of Slovenia, but are not covered by the number of existing municipalities. The fact is, there have always been differences in the provision of funds and the implementation of programmes by municipality. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we fear that the same congregations that have so far avoided contributing to the Red Cross will also find a way forward to avoid supporting this humanitarian organization. Of course, in the DeSUS Group, we expect this bill to be adopted in order to exercise proper control over the implementation of the law and, of course, the use of funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u8	Good afternoon. Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, Mr. Rich Guy! At least that's what I think I'm saying. First of all, thank you so much for all the help you've given Zasav in the storm. Now to the law itself. Although the purpose of the law is good and understandable, it is reasonable, but in the Slovenian National Party we estimate that the tendency for local communities to commit to programmes and finance the Red Cross is not for this type of funding. In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that the involvement of local communities with the Red Cross has been good and, I stress, other humanitarian organisations in such a form as is now good. Each local community has been aligned with the functioning of humanitarian organisations in its own way with several types of co-financing and we believe that this is a better way. The danger we see in the implementation of this law is also that then an equality-based syndrome can appear and then a large number of organisations can appear that will follow the same path and we will come to the conclusion that local communities will have to finance a number of other organisations contractually on the basis of programmes. Once again, with all due respect for the work of both the Red Cross and humanitarian organisations, the current way of working for local communities in relation to the Red Cross is appropriate. Of course, even better paths can be sought through communities or associations of local communities. I think the Red Cross is satisfied with this work so far. The main position of the Slovenian National Party is to leave the local communities with their own discretion in regulating relations with humanitarian organisations, especially in this case with the Red Cross. If we look at the contents, it's actually hard for the Red Cross to write, it's hard for the guide to write his program. It can write some constants that are known, but according to the experience of the last two years, we can see that there are a huge number of unforeseen works and tasks both of the Red Cross and of other humanitarian organisations, which are very difficult to place in different programs or contracts. Of course, we are aware of the obligations and responsibilities that all of us have, regardless of the local community, all as humans in the many tasks that the Red Cross has performed for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u10	Your Honor! The Red Cross, as a non-governmental organisation in the public interest, has a special status and special meaning, and there is no danger of getting competition just like every day and at every end, since it has ensured this status by its rules, its constituent instruments and by recognising the state that it is carrying out this activity, and therefore the State also provides funds. I myself was surprised by the debate that some municipalities have so far strictly refused funding for Red Cross activities and have not left them to money that is common and would spend it in the public interest of citizens, citizens, for the purposes of that congregation in a way such as the Red Cross does, with voluntary work, but with minimal use of resources, but with great benefits. In the course of the discussions, a poor traveller was also on the Committee on Local Self-Government as well as on the Committee on Defence, where it felt that the Community of Municipalities was in fact rejecting and rejecting a way of funding that should be regulated in the future, for leaving only the good will, the mayor, the world in order to be able to finance certain activities from the budget, was clearly poor in certain environments and therefore the proposal to do so, as the country does with direct contracts with the Red Cross, and to provide funds for these activities. Therefore, we regret that we have not been able to convince those who have advocated this change, both the Legal and Legal Service, which has incredibly persistently insisted on some principles that have nothing to do with the Constitution or with any law, as well as with some opponents, in order to make this law more binding and effective in spite of everything. We are still afraid that this provision, which is in law, will allow some not to respond to requests, initiatives that the individual Red Cross organisation in certain municipalities will make clear as a need to finance its activities. At first glance, it is a law that has a definition in one article of how to provide funds for the Red Cross at local level, and two articles that translate sanctions from previous tolars into or even tighten the current euro. I'd say it's not some important law, it's something routine, but we do think that this change of law gives us a new quality. Mayors, those who have so far refused to participate in these projects will at least have to talk to representatives, and they will have to try to find solutions to ensure a stable, more sustainable source of funding for this activity. Even more so, because, as through the Red Cross, one euro is to be embellished by the contribution made to the recipient of this aid, much greater than if he receives only one euro in his pocket, as well as the things not only in financial terms must be provided by the municipalities, the conditions for work and so on, we believe that this law will contribute to greater solidarity in this regard, so that we will support him in the Liberal Democracy Club without hindrance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Member State of the Social Democrats will be presented by Marian Križman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats welcomes the amendment of the Red Cross Act and will also support it when voted on. The existing Code on the Red Cross provides for relatively good planning, implementation and financing at national level of tasks carried out by the national Red Cross organisation in the public interest and, at local level, those tasks carried out by regional Red Cross associations are not specifically defined. Regional associations at local level are the ones in which people operate, mostly volunteers who know the environment best, alert and respond to them first. And these are the ones who provide the necessary assistance, and we must ensure that they continue their unselfish work and do even better. With a change, we want to achieve the regulation of this activity in a way that, together with the regional organisation of the Red Cross, the municipalities in which the activities are carried out agree and establish annual programmes and ensure a certain amount of funding for them. The annual programmes will also be in line with the specific needs of individual municipalities, i.e. in the interest of those who benefit from these services. Of course, some congregations are already funding the implementation of the necessary programs, but others are not, and that is where the problem lies, for all are left to the good will of individuals. This is how the local communities finance only about a quarter of the resources needed today. The difference must be obtained by regional associations in other ways. We support the proposed amendment, and we argue that it is right to conclude direct contracts for the agreed programmes. The municipalities will thus allocate the amount of funds to be agreed upon and not prescribed by this law. No one claims that the conclusion of such contracts is compulsory and that local communities will finance something that will not be in their interest. This will enable planning, transparency, efficiency and implementation of the various programmes and financial stability that will guarantee the effective and continuous implementation of the programmes. The novelty allows local communities to influence the identification of specific programmes needed in a specific environment while at the same time enabling them to control the use of the funds provided. I hope we're all aware of the Red Cross activity. Those who think that this is contrary to the law and that this will harm our municipalities, our legislation, our country, I place my heart on trying to think positively in the spirit of the organization and do not try to think that with possible opposition the novelties will shake off another financial obligation. It should be borne in mind that with such thinking you leave the Red Cross available to the mayor, who changes every four years, unfortunately once a little more perceptive, the second little less. This organization is not doomed to fail, it will live with or without this law. However, it is a clear message of how important the values represented by the organisation are to us. Solidarity, selflessness and social cohesion are what our society at this time, when nature shows us its power, is very important. Such disasters remind us that social distress is not something that can only befall someone else. You never know when you're gonna need help or any of your loved ones. And I believe the Red Cross won't turn its back on us then, so now we can't let the Red Cross. That is why I myself, and also the entire Group of Social Democrats, will support the amendment of the Red Cross Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Stefan Tisel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u14	That's a good-bye to all of you! Dear Mr President, Madam Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! The Red Cross of Slovenia is an international and internally regulated NGO. After the independence of Slovenia, the Red Cross of Slovenia organized itself in 1993 as a association of societies under the Red Cross Act of Slovenia. It also works under the Social Act and the Humanitarian Organizations Act. Today's operation of the Red Cross national organisation calls for more and more public powers to be exercised. It works in the field of protection against natural and other disasters, defence, health care, where it plays a very important role in the organisation of blood donation and in the role of education for first aid and social protection under the Law on Humanitarian Organisations [[Article 28]] and in the humanitarian field. The programmes and activities of the Red Cross of Slovenia are carried out in the whole country or local community. The Red Cross of Slovenia is a voluntary, independent, non-governmental non-governmental humanitarian organization of national importance operating in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in 12 regions, 56 regional associations and over 800 local organisations of the Red Cross of Slovenia. There are many volunteers involved who carry out the human mission. The regional associations of the Red Cross of Slovenia have their seats by municipalities, where administrative units are also located or where they were located by the old municipality. This network is set up for better organisation and accessibility of all services offered by the Red Cross. It makes sense for regional Red Cross associations to employ secretaries. They have a lot of organizational work, both to local Red Cross organisations and to the state headquarters of the Red Cross. There is also a lot of administrative work, as every euro that is earned and every euro that is issued must be recorded. The same applies to material aid. With the good cooperation of local Red Cross organisations, the network of volunteers extends to each home or to anyone who needs help. The funds that the regional Red Cross associations receive at the expense of public authority are not sufficient to function normally, and so far most municipalities have co-financed the Red Cross’s activities and programmes. In some congregations this was not the case; when the congregations were divided into smaller congregations, this cooperation was a little more difficult. The third sentence of Article 27 of the Code on the Red Cross of Slovenia states: "The municipality may provide funds for those activities of local organisations of the Red Cross of Slovenia that are not provided by the Republic of Slovenia." Therefore, a welcome initiative for the smooth and even functioning of Red Cross organisations is to complement the Red Cross Act in this Article, which means a more stable functioning. Despite many concerns and oppositions, the knowledge that the congregation still benefits from the local organization of the Red Cross or the regional association of the Red Cross has prevailed, since the congregation can assign them tasks under the authority of the congregation. It is therefore appropriate to regulate this relationship by contract or invitation to tender. The Maternal Committee has adopted an amendment to the amendment to Article 27, which now speaks of the municipality concluding a contract with the local organisation of the Red Cross on co-financing of activities and programmes. We discussed the functioning and financing of the Red Cross organisations in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Opinions have been shared and we will therefore vote in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Code on the Red Cross of Slovenia at our own discretion. I myself support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Volunteers of the Red Cross certainly perform an important function. They exercise public powers as the Red Cross as a humanitarian society operates in the public interest. Certainly, this network of volunteers must be maintained in the future. In doing so, it is not possible to overlook certain irregularities that come here and there on a day that can certainly be remedied by greater control. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we hope and expect that solutions in the proposed law will make it easier for the Red Cross to function in municipalities where cooperation with the Red Cross regional units does not work well. The annual programmes and the signed contract shall enable both parties to exercise their interests and the legal basis for financing. In doing so, we would like members of the Slovenian People's Party to stress in particular that the majority of municipalities and their mayors are properly exercising their responsibility and financially supporting the implementation of the Red Cross programmes. The contracts concluded will continue to ensure the smooth and transparent implementation of the programmes for all. The drafter of the law assures us that this is an obligation which must be agreed and is not binding, so it is not legally disputed. Therefore, the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support the law, which has also been adequately supplemented by amendments to the Home Committee on the basis of comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u17	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made on Tuesday, 28. 9. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item — First of all, the proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the law on protection against natural and other accidents under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic, Minister of Defence, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u18	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen! We have before us the first law or the first amendments to the law that lead to better regulation of the status of volunteers who participate in the system of protection against natural and other disasters and in particular their attitude towards employers. This is a question we have been dealing with for many years and have also been writing it down in a resolution on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters. This is not the last promise made by the Government this winter, in February, when we discussed with you the amendments to the Firearms Act. What we have written down this time in the amendments to the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters is actually the beginning of a longer-term process of legislative change, as we have been saying for years and years, and stated that it is necessary to arrange for the status of volunteers to be better, especially in view of their sacrificial work in cases of different natural disasters. This time, in the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, we first wrote down the arrangement of the relationship between the employer and the voluntary paramedics. In what way? First of all, we have established by amending the law all those NGOs that act in the public interest in protecting against natural and other disasters. Secondly, by supplementing the law, we have enabled employers to enforce payment of salaries with all contributions and taxes that bear wages equally, equally regulated for all those volunteers, either civil protection personnel or other voluntary paramedics who occur in various units, services and other operational units in the event of natural disasters. The refund will be charged by the State authority or local community body which will call on a member or citizen to perform such tasks. Thirdly, the employer will be entitled to a refund on the loss of income in such a case, up to 20% of the remuneration paid by the employer to the employee. Fourthly, the employer may refund the remuneration of the temporary salary for the work of the so-called hospital, i.e. for the injury or illness suffered by the staff during the performance of the protection, rescue and assistance tasks. In this case, too, this cost is borne by the person who called on the member to perform the protection and rescue tasks. Fifthly, rescue workers working with specially demanding appliances appear in the protection and rescue system, performing tasks in which they need to work with insulating respiratory appliances. Medical examinations are provided for these paramedics. We have decided that the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue, which also implements training programmes for these paramedics, will cover the costs of health checks for participants in such training. Sixthly, the law provides that the Department of Protection and Rescue protects a certain number of firefighters and other rescue workers, according to our assessment, is about 400 people who are deployed or redeployed from less threatened areas in the country in the event of major disasters under the protection and rescue plans. It was these days that we had to redistribute people from various parts of Slovenia to more endangered areas – Ljubljana and Celje – coming from the karst firehouse, the Celje fire liaison, the Krk environment and elsewhere. Even now, if these supplements had been adopted, they could have substantially improved compensation, it would be more clear how to pay for the loss of income for all those persons we have redeployed from different parts of Slovenia to the more affected places. The law, and this is the seventh specificity of this law, will also regulate certain necessary solutions in relation to protection and rescue plans and will also adapt the criminal provisions to existing legislation in this area. As regards the costs incurred by this law, let me say that we have now agreed in the Government to cover these costs by redistributing the defence budget. We do, however, and we hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will support the law and consider it appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u20	Nice hello to you all! We will, of course, support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. It's a good marriage, even though it's partial. It only regulates the status of volunteers, but okay, that's the first step. I think there is a need to regulate in general law and in this law a lot more. A broader area of resolution needs to be addressed, in particular considering the need to consider some infrastructure interventions into the environment in some cases and to declare and guide them through the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters. The current accident, the current floods have shown that in some cases there has been not only a lack of respect for existing laws, a violation of laws, and an enormous amount of irregularity and incompleteness. The reasons why this was not done are different, questionable, mainly because of the incompetence of the authorities that should have arranged it, or, according to the local word, since 1992, the Slovenian governments have only been dealing with themselves since 1992, by how they will collect as much money in their own pockets as possible, and not how to protect the population. And then what happened now happens. And then we have different passwords, we hear every voice that Mrs Kresal has when a person freezes when he thinks about how the police listen to him every step of the way, instead of regulating matters in this area of protection against natural and other disasters. There is certainly one problem that will have to be solved under this law, including the solution in the mountains, particularly with regard to foreigners. These mountain rescues cost the country a lot of money. We had previously heard from the Red Cross Law that as much burden as possible should be borne from the national shoulders to the congregation’s shoulders. In this case, when you spend a lot of money, nobody thinks. This should also be settled. Surely, the Ministry of Defence, which is competent for protecting against natural and other disasters, should cooperate with other ministries, first and foremost with the Ministry of Environment and Space, in order to jointly prepare solutions to prevent such floods and floods as have now taken place. Also with some other authorities not to allow construction in various rough areas and in questionable areas, when everyone knows that water has been watering for centuries and centuries in those meadows, yet they give construction permits and more.Here it is possible to have the police involved, and with that, we hear every one of your voices, we also hear that some people get some money in their pocket to issue a building permit in an area where they should not. The beaches in Slovenia claim, not yet human casualties, they are already, in this case not yet, but they cause horrendous material damage. Here too, the ministry should quickly convene a joint meeting with other ministries and perhaps tell Mr Pahor that these matters need to be handled differently than by a word game to ensure how his heart hurts and how bad it is when it happens to people in Slovenia. Otherwise, in the very beginning, marriage is good, but, as I said, partial. It is questionable how they will control what will be the control of those employers who, for example, will not allow any volunteers to go to rescue action if any such rescue action is very hot, very necessary, very urgent or similar. It is questionable how employers will turn to this remuneration of only 20% of the remuneration. It is true that other countries have something similar, but Slovenia is in a larger economic crisis than any other country. We were led there by the current government because of incompetence, ignorance, incompetence, and much more. However, one step has been taken. We will support this law, but of course we expect other additions and additional amendments to this law on amendments and amendments to them to take place slowly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u21	The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u22	Your Honor! Since the system of protection against natural and other disasters became an integral part of the defence system of the Republic of Slovenia in 2009, it is more obvious that that part of the regime, which has evolved exclusively on a voluntary basis, on the principles of solidarity, reciprocity, also has to be regulated differently, so that with systemic assurances, system resources also have to be paid for certain things that employers, individuals or certain costs have taken over from certain solidarity sources. We think that's right. Some of the attempts to amend the Fires Act, where only firefighters have been trying to sort out this status, would be discriminatory to others, because it would actually be only for this segment of some rights. In the law, I think that what is essential is sufficiently transparent and should be taken care of by the State or the congregations or the contracting authority of such actions. However, there will probably be a number of things to do here, as some things could have been done differently by now, but they are not. But it's just that, as we said, since last year, this system has changed significantly, right over the last period, there have been some questions about where the army is, whether or not it is where the reservists are, etc. Later, it was explained how and when this part of the system is included in the protection and rescue or in the whole action. However, if I do have the right information, there is even a lot of money from the resources collected from the Income Act, 0.5%, you know that at least the debtor can commit to one of the organisations, and I think that even EUR 5 million from this title remains unallocated for 2009, which is bad for this system. I believe that some other laws will have to be amended further, from the Law on the Financing of Communities to the Law on Income, and from the area of property regulations, legislation and similar things will have to be supplemented. In the Liberal Democracy, we believe that every step we take in this area is important and so forth from the first law that we have discussed today, the Red Cross Act. In fact, it is the basis for regulating the status of those who are most willing to help those who are at risk who are in trouble. And, of course, this must be related to the State's concern to ensure adequate conditions. It is true that, if we now have to deal with these, say, status issues first with compensation and insurance payments and pension-disability issues, it will probably be possible, as we say, to continue to speak and arrange some of the other things that would make this activity even better possible, which is invaluable when we talk about the need when it comes to those volunteers who decide to do so and who are involved in this system, that they can not even worry about what will be answered after the action has come. Members of the Liberal Democracy will, of course, be supported by the law both at first reading and then later.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dusan Kumer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the message to the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the amendment of the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters. We have before us a proposal that fulfils the promises made in February of this year in the consideration of the Firearms Act. At that time, the minister promised that we would change the roof law and systematically regulate the status of all volunteer rescuers. It was said that the compensation for the loss of earnings would also be adjusted. When a natural disaster occurs to us in the broadest sense, we always expect someone to come to our aid: professional fire brigades, civil protection and so on. Such assistance is expected quickly and in the highest professional capacity of rescue workers. In some accidents of greater magnitude, such as the recent floods, we expect some general solidarity, in particular all those who have devoted their free time to helping people and are therefore involved in various NGOs such as voluntary firefighting companies, Red Cross organisations, Karitas, mountain rescue services, cave societies, diving societies, cinematic societies, campers, scouts and so on. In their free time, all of you are trained to help people in distress in their own way. Therefore, the operation of all these voluntary units is extremely important. Today, we have before us a proposal for a new law that fully fulfils the promise of a systemic solution to the status of all of these more than half a year ago when we have considered the Firearms Act. In fact, it is a matter of continuing the gradual system-wide regulation of these things, which began in 2006. We have before us a proposal for a law that is an integral part of the effort to improve the status of voluntary rescue workers in accordance with the Resolution on the National Programme 2009-2015. Already in the debate on the resolution, one of the main issues was the status of rescue workers — volunteers. Therefore, the resolution also stated that all possibilities for the proper stimulation of employers employed by voluntary paramedics will be explored, so that their voluntary and human work of rescue and assistance will not be hindered. Therefore, the proposal for a law specifies more precisely which NGOs carry out this humanitarian activity. The law has a direct and positive impact on the employer’s attitude towards absence from work due to training or the performance of protection, rescue and assistance tasks. The law removes doubts about the amount of reimbursement. The new law gives employers the right to a refund on the work of lost income. The law allows rescue workers, units and other operational units to coordinate, to a certain extent, with employers with whom these paramedics are employed, including annual training plans and so on. The bill represents a major step forward in regulating the relationship of the employer:voluntary. However, there remains another major step, namely to change tax legislation and regulations in this area, which regulate the way employers are also stimulated if they employ paramedics. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will continue to advocate changes to these necessary laws that will upgrade and enable the implementation of the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters and thus guarantee all rescue workers the status they enjoy. The Group of Social Democrats will support the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u26	Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We are today, and we will talk a lot more about protection and rescue. And in view of recent events, it is proper to reiterate our commendation and deep affection for such voluntary firefighters, professional firefighters, and anyone who has been involved in the recent floods and who has helped those in distress. In these days there is much talk about protection and rescue, and I cannot go beyond the comment of one of the Slovenian journals, which says that our system is primarily a rescue system and a much smaller protection system. For protection, unfortunately, the money is running out. This June's rebalancing has also brought 44 million euros in defence. For the first time, the minister or minister was forced to reduce funds in the area of protection and rescue. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expect that the reduction in resources in the area of protection and rescue will no longer continue. We're not gonna land on this anymore. Now specifically to the law. As has already been said, the law does indeed govern the entire system of protection against natural and other disasters and that the system of protection against natural and other disasters develops as a single and comprehensive national security subsystem in the country area. The Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters governs response and action in all types of accidents, irrespective of the cause of their occurrence and consequences. It therefore implements the principle of consistency in the use of forces and means to protect rescue and assistance in the event of natural and other disasters. In accordance with their powers and tasks, this system is organised by local communities, in particular the municipalities. In practice, this seems to be by first using their forces and resources to manage the disaster and then providing assistance to neighbouring local communities or countries. I think it is right to say from this place who belongs to the forces of protection and rescue. The law provides that the forces for the protection, rescue and relief of natural and other disasters consist of various professional and voluntary rescue services and bodies, units and civil protection services. Among the professional rescue services are the most important firefighters and emergency medical care. However, the most numerous and most developed are rescue services, units and other operational units organised by NGOs in accordance with the protection and rescue plans and the criteria laid down by the law. Among them are surely the most important volunteer firefighters, who operate in almost all municipalities and perform the task of general rescue. As public services at national level, there are also mountain rescue services, cave rescue services, underwater rescue services and rescue at sea. The police are also involved in the implementation of protection, rescue and assistance in accordance with their competences and according to their organisation and capacity, including the Slovenian Armed Forces. In recent floods, we would rightly expect greater involvement of the Slovenian Armed Forces. Given that the basic objective of the bill is to improve the status of rescue workers and improve relations with their employers, the proposed law provides a certain contribution to the implementation of the guidelines contained in the last resolution on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters. At the same time, it is also important to commend the law's dictatorship, which also provides for the possibility of a national authority or local community body for civil protection members or citizens who voluntarily participate in the protection and rescue exercise to draw up an annual programme of their training for protection and rescue, informing their employers and the programme, where necessary, of their employers. While the provision is not binding on all compositions and all municipalities because of the diversity of units, it allows for the reduction of the absence of work in the course of training or for employers to plan on time when their employees or paramedics will be absent from work. Unfortunately, the law still does not provide for the employer's right to compensation for lost or lost income resulting from the absence of a civil protection member or a citizen from work. In practice, this means that employers sometimes do not allow voluntary firefighters or rescue workers to participate in interventions when they intervene, which is understandable in some way, as no one compensates them for the business damage caused by the absence of their workers. This is even typical of employers with fewer employees. The Ministry has also set out a few words in the explanation of the law in this area, but concrete solutions in this segment are, unfortunately, still not in sight. At the same time, I would point out the issue of reimbursement for medical examinations for insulating respiratory appliances. This is what Article 114 of this Law speaks of. If the legal solution goes in such a direction as to ensure a lump sum for one review, I think that is a good solution. If, however, it is different, and I understand, it is a different solution, but I believe that this should be corrected accordingly. From everyday practice, I can say that if firefighters are sent to an institution for review, in particular, if I say one example, from the whole of Gorenjska for a review in Škofja Loko, and they have to carry the burden of transport costs themselves, this will not help to rationalise what we are talking about, because the final cost of the examination will be negative, especially since the individual firefighter will already be driving and the review will practically take the whole day, which at the end of the price calculation means that this will come a lot more expensive than if the firefighters were sent to the house for inspection. This will have negative consequences mainly for voluntary firefighters, so a more appropriate solution will have to be found. This is only one of the proposals that I know was also transmitted by the Firehouse Association of Slovenia. Novela means a small shift that will burden the main municipalities because voluntary firefighters paid by local communities benefit most of the refunds. I also find it difficult to explain that the amendment will have no financial implications, as the state refund will also cost more than it has already. The solutions, in our view, do not have much to do with the right status, which is discussed by the Gasilian Association of Slovenia, which should be saved by a special pension pillar or something similar, which some societies already carry out, of course only in their own directing. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposed law at first reading. However, we expect the bill's proponents, i.e. from the Government, to prepare, as soon as possible and until the second reading, appropriate solutions for the proposals submitted by the Slovenian Association of Fire and which have not yet been taken into account in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Tadej Slapnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u28	Dear President, Madam Minister with co-conspirators, colleagues and colleagues. We support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters in the Really Group, as they are also prepared in line with the expectations and initiatives of the Zares Group, which we have already presented when we consider the proposal for amendments to the Firearms Act at the beginning of this year. We agree with the proposaler that the status of lifeguards in the roof law should be fully regulated, not in individual sectoral laws, and that the overall relationship between employers and the voluntary lifeguards employed by these employers is crucial in regulating the status of rescue workers. In the Truth Group, we believe that the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents is better governed by the status of rescue workers as regulated by the law in force. This is also evidenced by the fact that the proposed changes are largely consistent with those to which the law is intended. The bill allows employers to apply remuneration with all contributions and taxes charged to their employees for the period of their absence as members of civil protection or to voluntary rescue workers in different units, services and other operational compositions. However, we expect that further improvements will be made in the adoption process between employers and rescue workers. It should be borne in mind that the daily allowance for the absence of work does not cover all the other costs incurred by such a company due to the loss of production. While employers have the right to a refund on the loss of income resulting from the absence of an employee, which may amount to a maximum of 20% of the remuneration paid by the employer to the employee. The proposal does not yet take into account that income losses also depend on the size of the company and the number of rescue workers employed in this company. Unlike larger economic systems, small and medium-sized enterprises are far more difficult to replace the unannounced daily absence of individual workers. In a smaller company with, for example, four employees leaving two paramedics can already constitute a complete stop to production. Of course, it is necessary to count on the social responsibility of companies which in practice understand such shortcomings in large measure, but it is nevertheless necessary to recognise that recurrent failures, particularly in small enterprises, can also represent a great financial burden. In the Zares Group, a new policy is therefore expected to hold further discussions with representatives of small businesses in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence in cooperation with other ministries, and together with them will come up with additional measures to mitigate such potential losses to an appropriate and realistic extent. In the proposal for amendments to the law, the adoption process further considers a more precise definition of the status of active rescuers and rescuers of wider importance. These statuses are a prerequisite for appropriate guidance and also for the administration of rights under this law. In the Zares Group, the new policy is also in agreement with the warnings of voluntary fire companies regarding the status of voluntary fire brigades of wider importance, which operate on the basis of concessions granted for the resolution of various disasters. Voluntary firefighters in these units must also be trained on a regular basis and are often involved in very stressful interventions, particularly in the event of serious accidents. Usually, however, they are the first ones to save themselves in the face of all the worst plagues and floods. For this reason, we agree with the proposals that members of the fire brigades should be included in the composition of the reserve army and thus be given the status to which they also belong on behalf of the tasks they perform. We are convinced that, in the debate on the umbrella law on protection and resolution, such proposals need to be considered, so we will listen with interest to the defence ministry's response to this proposal. In the Parliamentary Group, indeed, a new policy is assessed that the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters is a suitable basis for further consideration and support.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected minister with a co-worker, a respected colleague and colleague! The game of fate is that before us this law is just after catastrophic floods, the consequences of which have not yet been resolved, and all damage has not yet been established. At such times, it turns out whether we have well-organised intervention services, whether we are ready to jump to help the neighbor and how solidarity we are. I will also take this opportunity to thank, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, volunteers, members of the Fire Department, civil protection and rescue workers, members of various societies, in short, all those who have stepped in to help. From the first hand, I can tell you that among all these many have also been affected by the mayors, who have sought solutions and provided assistance to the affected day and night. In particular, I would like to thank the affected for their patience and real acceptance of the situation. It's also very important at times like this. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that it is right that the legal arrangements for the unloading of employers and the social security of activists who assist in disasters in the protection and resolution, so we will support the law for further consideration. In the next stages of the consideration of the law, we propose that the competent ministry, together with the Minister of Finance, draw up a proposal and consider how to compensate and assist municipalities where it would be difficult to cover all the obligations imposed. We urgently need to find a way to provide additional funds for such municipalities in such cases. Of course, we would like all these additional burdens, such as covering the loss of income to the employer, in addition to the salary of the activist, not to impose compensation for injuries considered to be injury at work on the municipalities. While the additional costs represent a positive burden on employers and thus facilitate the participation of employees in training and resolution and social security, in the event of such large-scale disasters that have occurred recently, there will be too much burden on the municipalities. It is important to consider that, such as the defence and protection of the State's competence, protection and resolution will become the State's competence in terms of equal opportunities for all citizens, independent of the financial capacity of each municipality. We therefore propose to consider a second consideration of how to help the congregations or provide them with appropriate means of making sure that all these financial burdens are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensions will be presented by Mr Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u32	All present, well greeted! Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a new law on protection against natural and other disasters. This is a bill promised by the Minister of Defence in March. In the DeSUS Group, we also asked her an oral question about the drafting of the bill, with which we wanted to encourage the realisation of the promise for the benefit of our voluntary rescue workers and for the good of the people who come to their aid. At the same time, I cannot go beyond the last flood, which would certainly cause even worse destruction than if there were not so many volunteers in our country who jumped to the aid of their neighbours as well as friends and complete strangers, of course under the good leadership of Minister of Defence, Mrs Ljubica Jelusic, and the commander of the civil protection of Mr Bogotaj. For several years now, voluntary rescue workers, such as firefighters, mountain paramedics, civil protection personnel and other volunteers, face difficulties with employers every time they have to rush to rescue and the employer suffers from income shortages due to the absence of workers. We are therefore pleased in the Group of Members that the Minister has tabled a proposal for a new law, which we hope will also in practice bring what the proponents promise. This is the equalization of the status of all rescue workers, the reimbursement of the costs to the employer and the burden on the rescue costs of the rescuer. In the DeSUS Group, we expect them to get the most out at the last point of their opinion. As has already been said, the proposed amendment equates the status of all rescue workers, regardless of where organisations operate. It also foresees a series of measures, such as tax legislation, which would be stimulating for rescue workers. As I have already mentioned, one of the key innovations is that the reimbursement of expenses will burden that congregation or state authority that will call for an ambulance. The latter will also take the costs in case a voluntary paramedic is injured or ill at the time of intervention. In addition, the employer will be entitled to a refund on the loss of income due to the intervention carried out by his employee, amounting to 20%. The Protection and Rescue Administration will take over the cost of medical examinations for those paramedics who are required to operate with insulating respiratory appliances. The financial implications of the law will amount to €209 000, and the funds will be provided by redeployment under the budget of the Ministry of Defence, according to the Minister's assurances. Let me touch again the disaster that has affected most of our country over the past week. Voluntary paramedics have once again proved invaluable in the rescue and protection of human life and property, so it is our view that it is imperative to adopt a law that will help to protect volunteers more and stimulate employers to employ these self - sacrificing people without fear. We will no doubt support this bill in the DeSUS Group. All we regret is that this law is not yet in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. My word is Mirko Brulc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u34	Dear President, Madam Minister, Councillors, Members and Members of Parliament, welcome! Slovenia is a relatively small country, embossed and unfortunately has suffered many natural disasters. Let me mention the floods that are now most up to date, we have snowfalls in winter, we have an earthquake-threatening area, we know fires, big wildfires, in Crassus, and we could list them. Therefore, there is a need for legislation in the field of protection against natural and other disasters, which is currently under consideration and which aims to improve the status of volunteers and not only favour one or the other, but all those who are willing to help in such cases. In some parts, it also tackles employers’ stimulation, which is very important. Today we have only events in our heads when firefighters, civil protection and others go into action, but I must say that a lot of time has also been invested in the education of these structures, because there is no correct and safe and effective solution without the knowledge these paramedics must have. We have increasingly expensive technical resources, vehicles, special matters that these paramedics need to know how to use, so there is a lot of time for training. The equipment is, of course, dependent on local communities. I met just these days, when these floods were in place, that some small congregations, which were very flood - threatened, did not even have flood - guard bags in their reserve, that they were coming for all of this to the city’s congregation, for we had really purchased these bags more than 2,000 years ago and were now giving them to these small congregations. That is why regional organisation, not only of these services, but of local communities, is very important. It would be time for something to move here as well and to make these commitments, the burdens that are on some mayors, but some take them more easily to transfer them to institutions that will cover the entire area. It was said that protection and rescue should go to state jurisdiction. Of course, I don't agree with this, because when it comes to a suddenly endangered area, whether it's an earthquake or a flood now or something, we can't wait for the country to collapse. We organise ourselves in the local community and approach resolution as if orders were coming from a centre, so I do not understand in what sense the state should take over protection and resolution. I think that this needs to stay in the local community, but sometimes we need to organise ourselves better. From 15 to 20 September, we had only 1864 calls to 112 in Goriška or North Primorski region. It is said that the centres have already been very burdened, and they have done this very, very well. I've been here a lot of time at these centers, at the civil protection headquarters, and I have to say that it worked like, say, sometimes, a Swiss watch. We had 800 firefighters activated, we had the Slovenian Army as soon as we needed it and invited it. 30 soldiers of the Slovenian Army came from Vipava to help rescue. Today, it is apparent that the Slovenian Army did not respond. I don't know how we imagine this involvement of the Slovenian Army, because we know they're firefighters first, but in the floods it's like watching for a while, pumping water from the kitchen to the living room just doesn't make sense. But all those who were asked for help, the Slovenian Army, civil protection, firefighters and everyone else, reacted immediately. Here I must also mention volunteers from the Red Cross, Karitas, including the Centre for Social Work and all others. We organized immediately because there are families that took their sheets, destroyed their mattresses, beds, and so on. And these volunteers can solve these problems. In these situations, we forget the operation of police officers. It is also the police who, with a very serious approach, protects property or prevents someone from going to rescue something and losing his life so as not to list it. I think that all these structures in Slovenia work very well and that various nervousness is justified simply because people in such situations are panicky, they can't control themselves, they react wrongly, and many of them have also had to eat up to settle the matter on the ground and tell them that they can't do anything else at the moment than what they were doing. I'd like to point out the following. It is up to all of us to know what the equipment of these volunteer units will be, how they will be trained, and how much we will do in self-protection education. Look, there are so many absurdities here that I can't tell you. A young boy, 20 years old, sits in an apartment with his mother and calls the firemen because he leaves them a roof. Gentlemen from the city are calling for water to flow into their garages because the yachts on the road are blocked. Why isn't that in your village? Why do you take your boots in the village and go and dump that shaft? So this education is very important, but from kindergarten to high school, when these young people are a little self-sufficient and manage everything when it comes to helping, there is no action. Of course, I will be very pleased to support this marriage myself. Perhaps there is something else that can improve it, and it will all go to the satisfaction of those who save it. I hope that in our debate, at least until now, because we are in a pre-election period, there is no taking advantage of all these structures so that someone will praise them for having elections tomorrow, but because they really need thanks. And I like that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Bogdan Barovich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you. Dear Minister! Once again, the basic objective of the bill is to regulate the status of rescue workers and to improve relations with their employers, which is, of course, perfectly logical and justifiable. It is good that this bill is before us, when we can speak about it on the basis of experience, not in terms of thought and politics, as we have been trained to do, but in terms of experience. This is why we support this law in the Slovenian National Party. We support him to determine exactly how and what, although in such cases as we have witnessed to him now, at least I, probably who ever looked at the letters of law and articles before. But if there is a law before us, it is also right to determine very precisely who is the savior, what responsibilities the rescuer has, or who are legally bound to help, and what responsibilities and responsibilities the state or local community has toward them. It is very important that this is defined in this law. I myself support some of the content that is here, so determined who is exactly what it is that they are professional, voluntary paramedics, who are professional firefighters and medical care, who are volunteers besides volunteer firefighters, what civil protection means. However, I would suggest that the task of the Police and the Slovenian Armed Forces be defined more precisely in this law, without which, of course, it is impossible to imagine. The police and the military shall also cooperate in the implementation of protection, rescue and assistance in accordance with their respective powers. You know, these powers are, we know exactly what they are, but at some point, it seems to me that there must be a legal arrangement, when and how the police and when the military must come to the surface. In the Slovenian National Party, we also have a proposal that we are proposing to the government and the competent ministry, how to include people through public works in one of the forms of emergency assistance in these disasters. Either way, a large number of people, which, of course, we're very sorry, over 100,000 are already unemployed. This is bad for these people. And thank God that some among them, those who really do not get a job, also receive state aid. But it would be wise for such disasters to involve these people in marriage, and their obligation should be to participate in at least disaster management. And another suggestion. We are proposing on the basis of experience, because our Group has already twice raised a very important question about water resolution at Mura, because we lack inter-departmental coordination. I don't think we should be without the Ministry of the Environment and the space of this law. shape up. We support this law, it is right, but we call on the drafter to be very specific in some articles, especially where it is necessary to say exactly who will give compensation to employers: exactly what the state, what the municipality, because if not, will be a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I am pleased that we have before us this law on protection and resolution in the event of natural and other disasters, because this law stems from efforts that we have also made in the Slovenian Democratic Party very actively to adopt a resolution on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters. Today's law saves part of what we have been able to enforce through our party in this resolution, namely, it regulates better the status of rescue workers and the relationship with their employers. This is essential because we are aware of the many problems that have been experienced by those who have responded voluntarily to disasters, and then they themselves have had difficulty regulating their status with employers. We must be aware, however, that a number of employers may have had some problems, as the absence of two or three employees is a significant drop in the case of small employers. That's why it had to be arranged in the law. I am firmly convinced that we are moving forward with this law, that we are at least partially regulating this relationship, perhaps not yet fully optimal. We will follow the effects that this law will bring, and if necessary, we will also demand that certain things be corrected. What this law governs, my predecessors have already spoken in detail. I don't think any of what's proposed is too much. On the contrary, some things might be helpful to arrange further. But I must say, this is the first phase of regulating the status of volunteers and paramedics. We are also looking forward to regulating the status of voluntary fire companies and other societies in the field of protection and rescue. Thus, we from the Slovenian Democratic Party, when adopting a resolution in a resolution through the Committee, have also laid down that the possibilities will be re-examined so that companies acting in the public interest in the field of protection and rescue will be able to benefit from grants from events organised to obtain additional funds for their activities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, this is a party that is extremely involved in voluntary activity, with voluntary firefighters and other rescue workers, we are in constant contact with these societies, with these rescue workers and, in fact, it is a permanent topic that these voluntary firefighters cannot obtain funds or have no tax facilities, so that they can also obtain certain funds, which they then use for the benefit of all citizens, not for some luxury or for some social activity, but for their overall good. That is why we are permanently active in this direction to help these societies and rescuers — volunteers involved in these disasters in Slovenia, unfortunately, often, and at that time we can again thank the firefighters and other rescuers for their unselfish help to people in dealing with the severe difficulties that have arisen with these stings. This attention to voluntary fire companies is also part of the effort. Earlier, a colleague had said that he hoped that this was not just about local elections. Unfortunately, I do not remember ever taking such an active stand, unlike our party, which we are really consistent in this, even in these elections. As a sign of support for voluntary firefighting companies and this noble activity, we are running for mayors when they are elected. I am so sure that Robbie Croat, Vice President of the Fire Company, will be elected Mayor Domžal. In my municipality, too, we are running for president of a voluntary fire company, which is an outstanding expert, a machine engineer, successful in the business field, for the mayor. And when the mayor of Slovenske Bistrica will be our candidate, Mr. Ačko, I am confident that, together with such capable people, there will be additional pressure on the Ministry to deal with the problem of voluntary firefighting companies and rescue workers throughout Slovenia. And this is also the promotion of voluntary fire-fighting activities. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u39	My friend Jerovšek, that's enough, I'd say, advertising. Please, if you come back [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u40	Yeah, I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u41	to Theme [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u42	We're such a customer, I believe I'm disturbing you. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u43	Don't let anyone tell you that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u44	but we're actually doing this activity [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u45	you want to expand [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u46	We support it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u47	political influence in these organisations. [[...]] But let's just leave it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u48	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u49	That's enough advertising. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u50	And that's why [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u51	Let's move on to the subject. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u52	As I say, when these people are mayors of these important municipalities, it will be easier to deal with this problem of voluntary firefighters and rescue workers. [[...]] I am happy about this law, as I said, that we are partially successful. To regulate part of the problem and to cooperate well with the ministry, including Members, the Defence Committee, which has also initiated some solutions. I hope that such efforts will continue in the future, that we will develop this noble activity rather than end it. This noble activity, which is changing over time, the way in which some accidents change, some accidents change, more and more road interventions in accidents, but unfortunately there is also an increasing number of natural disasters as a result of climate change. And we in Slovenia must, we must and must adopt legislation that will support such an activity, such volunteering. Not only do they help people, but it is also the best educational element for young people, that in these societies they are active, that they are withdrawn from the road, that they do not come in so much contact with those everyday difficulties that they experience every day against young people. So, once again, I strongly support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word is "silva blackugelj."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Volunteering is certainly a very rich tradition in all areas in Slovenia. And this tradition dates back to the 19th century, and over the decades it has only become rich, and through volunteer work solidarity among people has also increased. I can't agree that there are only certain parties in the volunteer units, but we Slovenians are involved in what somehow, one would say, harmoniously and in the face of the natural and other disasters that affect us, we can step in together. This is very important and in some ways Slovenians in other European nations are even more prominent and we can be proud of how and how all voluntary organisations, from firefighters and others, work. As I witnessed the floods in 1990 that hit the whole of Slovenia at that time, I saw, not only in the village areas, as my colleague Brulc pointed out, but also in the city, in the urban settlement, in Medvod, in Šiška, in the Centre, we also tried to take action in the areas of culture and health in some way through the unified information and water capture the meteor water somehow. So we're organized in cities, too, and we have this feeling. I will support the present proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, but I cannot help but overlook the fact that volunteering is a very important activity that not only includes these activities, which have been listed so far - from civil protection, firefighting, first aid, but are also involved in voluntary organisations, at least after this last action, which we have seen in Slovenia in these unloving floods, various municipal companies, other NGOs and civil organisations, so it would be prudent and important for this area to be fully resolved by one fundamental law. We know that the Ministry of Public Administration has in the past two months had a law on volunteering, a statutory law that solves all these areas. Undoubtedly, the most important area that we are dealing with today is the question of how and how people will live, whether they will be supplied with clean, healthy, drinking water, or be saved in time from their endangered homes. And given that there are very specific experts in such units, it is important to resolve their situation, their way of permanent education, education and the way in which such education is financed, as well as the planning of such education. This area is very important and will probably, given climate change and the consequences of climate change, which are increasingly common, such as the centuries-old floods and droughts, are all the more important for regulation and not least funding. I hope and believe that, during the public debate, this will be highly interdisciplinary and interdisciplinary, and last but not least, the interministerial area will be fully and comprehensively regulated in a way that is satisfactory and equally rewarding to all the arbitrators in the resolution process and process, because we know that this is very important. In particular, it is important to strengthen the spirit of volunteering and, in fact, to show how this voluntary work is indispensable for all citizens and that citizens on this occasion should not be divided into such or different, better or worse, but all those who are in need of assistance or all those who are willing to offer it. I'd be happy to support the new marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Anton Kampush has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u56	Mr President, thank you so much for your words. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters and will therefore guarantee my vote. Before I go to the debate, however, I would react very quickly to my colleague Jerovska. We can allow politicians everything, but not go so far as to mix politics in these humanitarian organisations, such as the Red Cross and so on. This has nothing to do with politics and is very, very dangerous. In the final stage, one politician would have been able to say, "Now we are going to intervene only to the one who is mine," and so on. That's bullshit. This is bullshit for me, and these things can't be mixed up here. Now let me say a few words about the law on protection against natural disasters. I am very glad that this matter is so far away and that we will probably get a green light from everyone and that it will also come to an end. It is therefore necessary to say that some things are slowly showing up, which means that the essence of this principle is that the local community first uses its forces and means of managing disasters. It has been made clear that all municipalities and local communities must also take care of those minimum standards that we have already discussed, i.e. those minimum deposits of funds, but not that at the moment some local communities do not have a hearing about the matters they are being charged with. Only when they try to solve disasters in terms of flood safety and so forth with their forces should they seek the assistance of other local communities or the country, with all those units that they have prepared. Of course, the most important of these are voluntary firefighters, who operate in almost every congregation and perform general resolution tasks. As public services at national level, others, as has already been said, have been organised, mountain rescue services, cave rescue services, underwater rescue services. There is also civil protection inside this or that. Civil protection constitutes a smaller part or a smaller part of these facilities and is intended primarily for dedicated tasks, i.e. those not carried out by professional or voluntary rescue services, such as protection against unexploded military assets, assistance in logistics, liaisons, information centres and so on. It is clear that the police are also involved in the implementation of protection and rescue and assistance with their forces and their powers, as well as with the Slovenian Armed Forces, which also assists with their capabilities. Firefighters and firefighters, as well as everyone else, have long wanted this marriage to happen. Today, I am particularly pleased to read in the law that compensation for salaries is regulated, that criteria are laid down to regulate various other payments, such as remuneration and reimbursement in respect of the performance of the protection, rescue and assistance tasks. It is particularly important that the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents also regulates the right of employers to pay compensation up to 30 working days for inability to do so. And of course, if there is an accident that occurs to those who perform this human work, many of them, of course, even from this context of injury or disease, are compensated. In doing so, however, there are some other concerns that I have to express myself. This time I think the law is so far away that it will be adopted. That's the first one, and that's what I want. A few more words about volunteering. I estimate that any healthy citizen of the Republic of Slovenia should, on his own, assess the possibility of becoming a volunteer in one of the many voluntary organisations that are large and can be chosen by each individual according to his or her opinion and view of his or her personal identity. This is the moral duty and decision of each individual. This can give rise to expectations of help when he needs it himself. If you'll excuse me, I'll speak a few words more about the fair. Yesterday was the opening of the SOBRA Fair in Pomurje, which brings together all those members and members, i.e. the military, police, firefighters, medical aids to show their skills to show their equipment, their willingness to offer assistance, or are ready to help together, as we all want in Slovenia. Finally, I would like to provide some data from daily reports and some statistics on how protection, rescue and assistance measures have been implemented, including up to 22. 9. 2010 Twelve thousand 599 members or paramedics participated. Of these were firefighters 10 000 409, civil protection 524, other rescuers 352, public and other companies participated 747 and the Slovenian Army cooperated with 742 members. The operation of the Police was also active, with thousands of 526 police officers involved in the areas at risk, 70 of whom were on standby, and many of the members of the Slovenian Armed Forces were involved. The Slovenian army also offered other facilities, such as helicopters, tankers, aggregates, and a lot of assistance was activated in terms of the provision of accommodation facilities, even around 500 in Ljubljana. From this we can understand that the measures are timely, but the possibilities are such that it is not possible to resolve, if I go specifically to water pumping, where the water has not yet drained. I therefore estimate that this context also deserves a positive picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u57	Mr. Jerovšek has the replica. Correction of incorrect indication, not disagreement with other indications. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u58	I must say that I do not agree with Mr Kampush and his implementation with regard to me. Volunteering and humanitarian activities must also be promoted by all means here in the National Assembly. This is not an inappropriate policy intervention in this area. This area is granted [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u59	Comrade Jerovšek, he didn't see this coming. Look at the magnetogram. He didn't tell you. Correction of a misstatement, not a controversy or disagreement with the position of another Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u60	They told me he said it wasn't appropriate to mix politics here with voluntary and humanitarian activities. I believe he's disturbed by the fact that we're giving this a lot of attention in our client. And even in the selection of mayoral candidates, that was an additional factor if someone was the president of the fire department to be the mayor's candidate. If you have a different policy in your client, it's important to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The word is Renata Brunskole. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! I wish all the mayoral candidates good luck if it is as our President has said, the EPP advertising has helped them to choose. I believe that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, among whom there were a great many who, in these difficult days of accidents, were really in need of assistance and were also assisted by Ljubljana, and I think that there was also, they do not want such words or such words at the full moon, as I said yesterday, when we sat for 14 hours or something less without need, I would almost say. But yes, it is democracy and we also defeated and survived yesterday. I'll back up the bill myself. There's no dilemma here at all. I think all praise goes to all those who have worked hard to see the novels of the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters in the National Assembly and that we will take an important step forward here. I am convinced that in the Republic of Slovenia, even in the area where I come from, where the first firewall was established in Slovenia, that is, in Metlika, where the oldest voluntary Slovenian firefighter is also the company that last year celebrated the 140th anniversary, that all those who are willing to help those who need help deserve more attention or assistance from the country as well as from the competent institutions. We have been talking for quite some time and I remember that even now in the National Assembly, since I am a Member, half the mandate has practically passed now a few days ago that the status of volunteer, the status of firefighter, the resolution of this issue goes to a large extent also with this amendment of law in the right direction, on the right path. We must not forget here the firefighters, members of civil protection, the Red Cross, Karitas, as mentioned, all other institutions, NGOs that help, both the military and the police. When I looked at the data, there's been some readings lately, usually they say there's good horses to smoke, and if they're doing good and right, there's always something to read. Even in the last floods, 150 members of the Slovenian Armed Forces were prepared daily to carry out their activities. However, it is true, as already mentioned by colleague Kampuš earlier and colleague Brulc, as well as by colleague Črnugelj, that it was still necessary to wait for the disaster and precipitation to be approached at all. I am convinced that even local communities and municipalities, I am also one of the first ones to be responsible for fire safety in one of the local communities, and it is now a shame to make any mistake about who is to blame for not doing anything. It is now necessary to take an active approach to all these shortcomings in the area of cities, municipalities, local communities affected by the floods being addressed as quickly as possible and to include all competent ministries, together with local communities, to resolve this problem. I hope that this end of the week will not be so problematic, although it has given some warning, as far as I am watching, by meteorologists, and that this readiness by the Department of Protection and Resolution of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Police and everyone else is to the greatest extent possible to provide assistance to our citizens and citizens who are in need of assistance today, and, as we say, God forbid, I hope that it will not be necessary in the coming days. Therefore, all praise the prepared novelties of the law, which I will certainly support. I certainly also like the fact that there is as much rescue and assistance as possible for firefighters as possible, that they will have no concern when they go to help save to fear for their jobs, for their jobs. Given that many people have lost their jobs in our area as well, and I know that on Sunday evening, together with the President of the Metlik Association, I signed calls for these volunteers, firefighters, members of civil protection, to help in Ljubljana, in Posavje, also towards Styria, so that they would not be in any way in fear of their jobs. At the moment of the accident, I think it should be their last concern. I'm sure things are going in the right direction. I would also like to thank employers on this occasion, especially business leaders and owners, that there is a hearing here that people are human beings here, that we still know how to stand together and help each other. So give me all your compliments. However, I am convinced that from health checks, which have also been discussed or to a large extent, we know what this is about, so that all of our volunteers can be dealt with in an integrated manner. Perhaps, as Brulc said, some adjustments will be needed, some things that will come to light. Sometimes someone tells me, don't forget the divers, don't forget the other paramedics who ever have the feeling that they haven't been taken into account so much, but I'm sure the Ministry of Defence or the Department of Protection and Rescue has reviewed the matter in an integrated manner and has not forgotten all the institutions, all the voluntary societies and associations involved in these accidents. Many of these are also lobsters and rescuers with dogs, mountain rangers, mountain rescuers. There are a lot of people who we can only say thank you sincerely to, not just now, given that now is the time of the election campaign, but even when it is not. I absolutely support this amendment of the law and I am convinced that all my colleagues and that the result of the vote will be what citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia want. Yesterday, I almost wanted to discuss interpolation in connection with natural and other accidents, fires, to say that some are unemployed today, thinking about how to survive themselves and their families, given that winter times are coming, it is necessary to provide the means of heating. And I almost wanted to say, and today, let's not net any kind of fire and temperature in this room needlessly, let's help everyone who needs help. Let us also take this amendment of the law one step further, and also in connection with firefighting, protection and rescue in the area of local communities to a greater extent to see how these matters can be resolved in an integrated manner. But this is already an important step forward, so once again, I will support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u63	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The law, which speaks of protection against natural and other disasters, points to a substantial broader content than the debate is now under way. But perhaps this is also understandable, because of the coincidence and change of this law and the natural perception that has affected us, and perhaps at first it is worth reminding someone that the axiomatic truth is almost that we cannot practically avoid the natural and other disasters completely and not predict them more accurately. But we can do something to make fewer of them, to make sure that our actions are not so sharp that they will not cause them, and that our way of life will fit in at all. For I speak of the influences that we, if I say somewhat poetically, children of Gaia cause our nature every day when we poke it to the threshold of pain, which is very high in nature, but when we exceed it, nature brings it back to us with irresistible force. And it is right to point out that very often it is we who cause the various negative effects that we must then correct, save, pay and address the consequences that we ourselves have caused. So we have an opportunity to avoid many negative consequences if we change our way of life ourselves. And when I talk about this, it would probably be good to mention or repeat, because it has already been mentioned that it would be right for us today to be representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, which are at least as concerned by this area and what is happening in this area as the Ministry of Defence. In fact, I would say that the Ministry of Defence is involved here in a smaller part, more in the organisation of forces, in training, in education, in assistance in the management of accidents and their consequences, and less in those areas that so-called prevention. Today, we can indisputably find that we have done little to prevent the various constructions, the engineering facilities and all other interventions that could prevent the many weaknesses that appear to us in the system. And since these daily influences are too small for nature to respond directly, we also push them away. And when they accumulate, we can no longer resist them. So this thought is certainly welcome. The next thing that matters and which is why I believe that the Ministry of Environment and Space should also be sitting with us is that of Article 8 which is also open, which speaks of taking the guidelines into account in spatial planning. This should be consistently respected when planning interventions into space and when they are being carried out. And what helps to reduce the negative effects of the Ministry of Defence and, of course, many other associations, including local communities, is to provide all the support, material, technical, financial, organisational, to those civil society communities or organisations that are most directly involved at the time of the accident. But if I are talking about all of this being resolved or mitigated, I would like to draw attention to some of the weaknesses that may need to be taken into consideration. For the first time, as regards spatial planning, which is arranged for us in such a way that local communities, if they want to adopt municipal spatial plans, must also provide flood studies, which is not their task. And in this way they take over part of the burden, including financial, of countries, because without these municipal spatial plans we cannot accept. Here I think that the country should take over its part in cooperation and responsibility. There are also forced measures that we cannot implement because we have such legislation, and because they are missing, there is greater damage from natural and other disasters. And just one more thought, which does not specifically concern this law, but a thought about how we spend money on this elimination of the possibility, a hotbed for accidents that is collected in the water fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u65	Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Ma'am mag. Majda Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Council! First of all, I would like to mention the necessity of self-protection of people, because I feel that the level of satisfaction with nature-sustainment measures could be slightly greater if some protective behaviour were to be carried out on their own. I'm not going to talk about the media now, who have to prepare the content. These are the institutions responsible for this, but I would particularly like to commend the media, which will ensure that we receive timely quality information. Recently, we have considered the law on RTV and part of the public service of RTV, the most important to me, is that it gives clear, precise, frequent information, because we can prepare ourselves for what awaits us. For example, I myself have been monitoring regular weather forecasts on national radio, and I have been able to follow that, and I have also guided my travel plans with this. This also means that we can properly prepare ourselves and protect part of our assets from accidents if we are properly prepared. I know that sometimes the weather forecasts can be such that they are not realized, so to speak. I remember that heavy precipitation was announced twice in South-Eastern Slovenia, but then it went to Croatia and Poland, but there were floods. But it must be realized that there is also something to be done to avoid being hit so hard. The second thing Willi Rezman stressed. In the course of lectures, we also had a lecture on the beaches. And when we discussed how long the reptiles can be quiet, so to speak, they do not threaten, I think that we should also make geological maps that would give local communities responsibility for having geological maps in spatial acts. If I remember this myself, I was a city councilwoman in Maribor, how many times have we faced eliminating the effects of the beaches. But if you look at where these houses were set up — on an extremely slippery terrain. Otherwise, I don't agree to attract those who say why people build houses on rivers, and I give it to those who say that people have always lived on rivers. But then they also need to know what life brings with it. This must be adapted to the construction, and all measures must be adapted to how to move away from what needs to be removed. All of you have stressed the many credits of all those who have jumped to help in the current floods. And I say again, thank you to the meteorologists who have told us with good predictions what lies ahead. It is quite clear that I will support the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters. I'm not going to repeat everything anyone else has said. Once again, I would like to point out that it seems to me to be an extremely important article 2 of this novel, which interferes with Article 21 of the Law and speaks of non-governmental organisations involved in disaster relief and protection procedures. It seems very important to me that those organisations that can be involved in all those that act in the public interest are listed. However, I would not be working here as hard as anyone has debated that some societies are more important in the public interest than other societies. The status of society in the public interest is very important. However, public interest can be very different. This law merely regulates the public interest which governs the public interest in the protection against accidents and interventions. That is why it seems very important to me that the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue is charged, in addition to these NGOs, with the possibility of assigning this status to anyone else. However, it would not have been so easy to agree that anyone in any of the rescue and protection segments could have been involved. Also because there have already been cases of injuries and threats to their survival. Therefore, it seems to me that this must be linked to the specific requirements for appropriate education, to the acquisition of specific knowledge of how it is done in such cases. Because, after all, it is not enough just to think of someone who needs help, we need to think about the one who provides help. By reducing the possibility of danger and injury to the smallest extent possible. As it is said, we all need to consider what each individual can do, whether he has a membership card or not. And it was really nice to see it in one of these videos, and even the mailmen have an important role to play because they bring newspapers to people who are cut off from information. So it's each one of your own. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u67	Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. The main enemy that threatens Slovenia at this point is climate change and, consequently, the kind of perceptions we have witnessed in recent days. We must also be aware of this when the state budget is being prepared, whether it is a rebalancing or a basic budget. The fact is that for the first time this year the budget in the field of protection and rescue has fallen, which is personally unacceptable to me. I believe that such and different ministries, when the budget is coordinated, are putting pressure on their demands, but I think, and here I am giving support to the minister and the team that the next time the budget changes or sets up, it is absolutely necessary to withstand all these pressures and insist that the item for protection and resolution does not increase. We witnessed the meeting of the Defence Committee when the Secretary of State made it clear what we would not be able to buy if this budget was slashed. And inside it were aggregates, pumps and so on. And look what we're witnessing today. Not long ago, really, I think the biggest flood catch, and it happened that there was a shortage of aggregates, a shortage of pumps. I think we should do more in this area, i.e. more money to protect and rescue, and perhaps, if in some ways, less money can be foreseen for arms alone, for the Slovenian Army alone. I think the only thing that really threatens us right now is climate change. And we need to give this much more attention than we've given it so far. As far as marriage is concerned, I can say that the solutions are good. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will also support this law at first reading. Of course, there are some questions that I have previously raised in the position of the Group of Members, and I expect to be answered by the Minister or the team. We are talking mainly about stimulating employers, how and what to do. You have also written this paragraph in your explanation of the law, "proposed marriage solutions are an integral part of," and I will now stress the word "facilitative efforts to adequately complement the solutions in tax rules, regulations governing health care and health insurance, pension and disability insurance, property insurance, insurance and other areas relating to the status, rights and duties of various lifeguards, especially in relation to their employers, so that they are stimulated by the paramedics as well as by their employers. This will allow for the further upgrading of the operational part of the protection against natural and other disasters". It's a paragraph that's been bothering me for a while. That this matter has not yet been realized. And I would like to hear from the Ministry today what will be the measures, what will the procedures be like to actually regulate this status, which we are already talking about, I think, for 10 years. And here we have to go over the ashes and say, "Even in the previous term, we failed to get this legislation through." And I want to know what the Ministry's guidelines are now, how we're going to get these solutions and how far we are. However, we can say that the status is regulated because it can be written down nicely, but we do not actually regulate it. What we accept today is not yet regulated by the status, let's say, just for voluntary firefighters, if I'm talking about it. We do not completely regulate it, as we would like, like firefighters or the Firehouse Association of Slovenia. Which is why I want to know what the next steps are going to be and how this is going to go this way, which is what I'm talking about. I said before that there's more to our rescue than protection. But I mean it here. Protection is preventive, and here, as Mr Rezman has just spoken, it is necessary to bring together everything that has any impact on these events that we have witnessed now. Let this be the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Defence. I think now is the right time to see how nature has shown us our teeth, and it is precisely known in certain areas where there have been larger waters, what should have been done. And it would be a shame if we didn't sit together now, to make a plan that would then be suitable in the long run for the next few years if such matters ever happened again. However, if we are to resolve this in a partial way, that the Ministry of Environment and Space will now be making some plans, let's say that the Ministry of Defence or the Department of Defence and Rescue, which has been informed and has all the information on how, where, why the spillout of these rivers and waters has occurred, I think we should step together and take a step forward in order to finally protect our citizens and citizens, given these concepts that are approaching us. As I have already said, more to protect, clearly more to save, but all this is conditional on funds, money and I am sure that in the next budget we will certainly look very hard under the fingers, what and where it will take and where it will be and how it will redistribute, I say. I'd say that's all I'd say, not like a replica of mags. Majdi Potter. Self-defense. That's true, self-protection comes into play when, say, rivers grow tinyly when hunting for such and different levels. In this case, self-protection did not have a great effect because there was simply too much water. And you have to be aware of that. But it is true that this self-protection must be done in the same way as in all other segments. This amendment to the law, which is a very small change, I will certainly support. All I would ask is this: What is the Community’s view of the congregations? Because, as we are looking at it, the greatest burden will fall on the congregations again. Because it is the congregations that will pay. But these are additional liabilities, additional bonds. And I don't know what the opinion of the Congregations Association is. It is likely that we will bear witness to their opinion in their second reading on the Committee when they can cooperate and give their opinion. This is one relevant question to be answered. It is necessary to know that if matters are not harmonised, then there is no effect as we would like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u69	Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Franco Yuri. [[He's quitting.]] Anton Kolarich. [[He's not here.]] Franz Puksich. Mr. Bevk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! Of course, I will support the amendment of the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters. The law is an integral part of the effort to improve the status of voluntary rescue workers in accordance with the resolution on the national programme for the period up to 2015. By this law, the employer shall have the right to a refund of wages with all contributions and taxes payable from the local community or the State. In addition to the refund, the employer may apply 20% of the refund as a compensation for the loss of income which he has not had so far. The employer shall also have the right to compensation for sickness or compensation for wages up to 30 working days or more up to a maximum of 120 days in the calendar year. In addition, as has already been said today, the law will burden the municipalities and increase the burden on the Republic of Slovenia's Protection and Rescue Board by around EUR 200 000, especially for health preventive checks that can be launched next year. I think that's the most urgent thing to do right now. Of course, there are other things that should be resolved with regard to volunteer paramedics. In this natural disaster, which has now affected the Republic of Slovenia, almost 13,000 rescue workers participated, at least after incomplete data by 22 September this year. Most of them were volunteers. Firefighters over 10,000, members of civil protection more than 500 and then a number of other paramedics and almost 800 members of the Slovenian Army. These are really impressive numbers. Most of this was voluntary work. And now, in this natural disaster that has affected Slovenia, the public sector is forecasting a strike on Monday. It's kind of a moral thing to do. The country is affected by natural disasters, and public workers, who get paid each month without delay, will continue to strike from Monday. I think it's still time for them to change their minds and to cancel this, some say, "white" sentence. Yesterday, even at the Odessa, we heard a union representative say that public workers don't get paid at all. I haven't heard such a big lie in a long time. Now we have witnessed in this natural disaster that 13 thousand paramedics practically all work unprofessionally voluntarily, night and day, in difficult circumstances and sacrifice their lives. Next week, however, the forecast of public sector strikes, where salaries were paid practically without problems each month from 1990 onwards. It's not working out. Well, let's leave this intermezzo. It is not only in volunteers who are actively involved in dealing with the consequences of natural disasters. The fact is, prevention is constantly in the shadow of curativeness. That is why we should take care of those things earlier in order to prevent or mitigate such natural disasters as they have been in Slovenia in recent years. It is very positive that the government always responds and immediately promises help. In all natural disasters this has happened, in earthquakes, floods, reptiles. However, we will also need to accelerate preventive measures in our country. Many of these preventive measures are already on the table today, and the profession has already proposed them, but if we look at watercourses, chandeliers and lowland rivers, they are too neglected. We have stopped investing more intensively in this area since 1990. By 1990, it had invested a lot more. So, in the previous system, which everyone is so critical of. If we had not taken action in Idrija in the 1980s when the Idrijac and Nikava rivers were regulated, we would have always had floods since 1990. In the 1980s, this was one of the largest investments in the water protection area in Slovenia. Such investments should also be made today, and more should be done at prevention. However, I can also express my gratitude to all the volunteers who have taken action in this natural disaster and who will help to address the consequences of the flood that has affected Slovenia in the coming days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u71	Mr. Marian Krizman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President.Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! Actually, my predecessor, my colleague Sam, said a lot of what I was going to say. And in fact, what he said himself is very important. I also join his call that those who sit on warm and receive monthly wages should think a little bit about the fact that the state does not have a bottomless bag and that we all have to put up with it sometimes so that we can get better tomorrow. And if I go back to the paramedics who have helped unselfishly in one way or another, from firefighters, volunteers, organised civil protection to people who don't know their name, and on Monday these people were on the job. Probably not just in the offices. They were people working for machines. I don't know why they're a little more hearty, like my friend Brultz said, why don't they call the fire department and say, "She leaves me in the garage." He puts on his boots, he goes in, he solves the matter with four neighbors, he drinks two beers and his friends go on. That's how you live. That's how relationships, connections are actually created, and that's what brings us and what makes us who we are. Therefore, in my personal name as a Member of the National Assembly, I thank all those known and unknown people who help on such occasions. To return or move back to the agenda. The proposed legal solutions are an integral part of the effort to adequately complement the rules governing health care and health insurance, pension and disability insurance, property insurance, insurance and other areas relating to the status of the rights and duties of various paramedics, in particular in relation to their employers, so that they are stimulated by paramedics as well as their employers. This will allow for the further upgrading of the operational part of the protection against natural and other disasters. This text in the paper seems most important to me. In fact, this text tells us everything we want to do with this law. In all the years to come, laws are being adapted, improved and so on. Here lies the basis of this law, which I believe is most important. In Slovenia, I say that this is elsewhere in the world, but in Slovenia we have an immeasurable source of volunteers: from the Red Cross, to Karitas, to voluntary firefighters and some others. This resource must be properly treated and respected, regulated by law, and given recognition to these people. Many times, it seems to us all to be self-evident, now someone with the right eyes will come and save everything, and we will either be at home or on television watching the problems solve. As I said before, we have a sense of responsibility for others, and within us all this sense of volunteering. And if we are the ones who sit here and have this feeling, it is right to walk this law on the road with one positive energy and to give it the opportunity as soon as possible to see the light of the world as it is called, and from the Ministry to all those who participate in this law or through this law they find inside and have at least in some part so arranged things that it will not happen that the employer will say if you go out for a day, and then one day you rest, then I don't need you at work or, what I know, decide that you are here. The employer also has a plan of his own, and many employers are very susceptible to it, and many employers are looking through the economy and probably, as I have heard from some, without being satisfied, simply do not want to be out of their job. End of story. And with such solutions, we will also get it off the agenda and there will be no need to apologize if anyone goes to rescue. Instead of giving him the prize, they're still taking him down where you've been, I don't need you, if you're not there, you have to be behind the machine. Because obviously a lot of things are seen only through money. I once told one of them to try to put a little stone in his shoe and walk it 10 meters, and then take it outside to see what the big difference is. There's a really big difference when we take the pebble out of our shoe when we're not in pain anymore. I'll support this marriage. Before I'm done, I'd like to say that because I have some more time, and that's all I want to say to the soldiers. This review, which you sent to us from the Ministry, lists the participation of a thousand 49 firefighters, 524 members of civil protection, 352 other rescue workers, public and other companies of 747 and 242 soldiers. This is one very large body, and this is a guarantee, when such accidents occur, in the hope that they will happen as little as possible, that everyone will cooperate. And let's try to be positive, not make a difference, but in all of this look, as I said, this common corps, which was run by someone, divided and properly placed throughout the country. I also thank the one who led this action from the top because it led it very well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u73	Mr Tadej Slapnik has the floor – he will not discuss it. Aloyziy Potočnik – will not discuss. Lois Posedel – he won't discuss it. Mr. Anton Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u74	Once again, I would like to say that I am in favour of the law and that this is an opportunity for us to say some things, however, what follows us every day and perhaps goes too quickly past us. The fact is that this law is not supposed to address all the issues we are talking about here. However, I think it is very important to stress that what we did last year in the resolution on the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters for the period 2009-2015 is stated that this system will be upgraded, that it will be more uniform when it comes to defence and security, and that this part, which has so often been taken for protection and rescue as well as something more than exclusively voluntary, is now becoming more and more a part of the system, including this modest solution for the area itself, for those who receive it, namely, for the voluntary rescuers and those who face these issues. If so far it has been more or less dependent on the good will of employers and communities as to how they have acted in such a case, whether they have been more inclined or have cooperated with themselves or have simply had to leave people out of work or other duties because of a need. That's what saves, but it can't save what's basic. Today, some lapsus has already been used on how to interest everyone in how to convince them to volunteer. You can't convince him or force him to volunteer if he's not. He is or he isn't. In this part, it would also be wrong to understand this part, but through the replacement of some costs, we will get more volunteers to pay volunteers, so to speak. That's not what this is about. It's some kind of movement, it's something that's in people or not. And this fundamental principle of solidarity, reciprocity and volunteering in this context is invaluable, and I hope that there will be an upgrade in the future, and that this whole system will also come to life with some of the initiatives in the resolution, because, despite all of this, the resolution is not the one that directly commits itself to the fact that we will also be able to see that defence and security is both in terms of protection, prevention and defence work, that the competence of the members, that these voluntary rescuers, as well as the armies and others who participate professionally in these matters, will be as effective as possible. Unfortunately, the part that was also mentioned in the resolution in several places, how all the policies at the start must be put in such a way that there will be as few natural disasters as possible, not even through this law, not regulated separately, but by developments. After all, I have seen that some have already requested a debate within the working bodies of the National Assembly, and there will also be an opportunity to see the mistakes that have probably been made and possibly also to establish some responsibility for inadequacy or misconduct in some areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u75	Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Solidarity and volunteering, I say, is still at a high level in Slovenia, despite our manners, that we know how much we like to argue, to stand before a court, and I don't know what else. But when that critical point comes, we're solidarity and help each other. That turned out to be the case now. And that's right. It was never clear to me that one municipal director could afford not to leave his driver, for example, for an intervention ride in a fire company, to even threaten, "but go ahead, but next time you don't have to go to work". But this is our job, public service, at least in here it shouldn't be happening. And it happens because some people are just so blinded by these chairs of their own and think that nothing can be done without them. That's not true. It's just that everyone's replaceable. It's just a little bit of living up to the pressures of people, so they wouldn't act like that. Neither am I in favour of putting too much pressure on the municipal budget, but we will talk about it, and I think we will find the right path that we need and the matter will continue to work. When it was said earlier by Bevko’s colleague that during those years between 80 and 85, if I am not mistaken, Idrijka was regulated, even then there was a great deal of talk about how the natural cultural or landscape heritage was damaged. However, at times like these, we need to ask ourselves where we can go and how much we can do these damage and how well we can study these pluses and minuses that bear such things. I say that the best architect is nature, so we have Slovenia as we have it. On the other hand, we also have problems with the launch of beaches in many areas. But we should also think about where we can go, where we can even set up our own homes. We also need to think about it and then work and live accordingly. Today we are talking about these watercourses that are not regulated. In the Slovenian People's Party, we took the initiative at the beginning of the mandate when we faced this financial economic crisis to invest at local level. I am convinced that today a wide range of jobs would be maintained if funds were found to deal with such matters. And we would help each other twice, both economically and in a protective sense. Today is also a very topical debate on whether mayors, saints and parishioners belong to the National Assembly. Please! Until the provincialisation takes place, we very, very much belong to the National Assembly, because we know what is going on and how it is, even more so than people who are not so involved in local work. When it comes to the fact that mayors should not work in the National Assembly, let's ask ourselves how big Slovenia is – for one big city, for one big London municipality, if we're talking about it. So we could draw parallels here, and we could talk about it a lot. As I intend to ask a certain question soon, I will now take this opportunity. You know, when I was in Lithium on the ground, I was told by people living next to Savi that when the Mavčiči prison opens up, the river basin in Lithium rises considerably, especially in moments like these. According to the estimates I got at Christmas, we were now "cut" by about 40 centimeters. And if this is true that this release may have contributed to this, I would have wondered, since we knew that we would have abundant rain, why didn't it empty before? I am not accusing anyone, it is only a matter of the local population and I will also ask the question of the mission. If this is true, we should most likely use these restraints to balance levels that could be resolved in our case in Lithuania 60 houses. I can tell you that in Lithuania we took it quite cheap to other areas. But an accident is an accident, no matter, one, thirty or sixty, it's hard at a time like this. When we talk about investments at local level, we could also talk about investments in small hydroelectric plants. Even these small hydropower plants, I think, can hold water for a while and this can be regulated in this way. And if that were enough, if it were to be planned, of course, it would take years to do so, perhaps we could also regulate matters. That's all I'm saying in layman's terms. These are my questions, but such questions and such initiatives and such scepticisms and all these things I have received from people on the ground, and today I am taking advantage of the opportunity to talk about this at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u77	Madam Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you to all those who have given thanks to our voluntary and professional rescuers of all kinds, in all uniforms and also in civilian uniforms, who have been on the ground for eight days now, actually helping people. However, I must say that we must all be aware together, even though we are talking about great willingness in the field of volunteering in Slovenia, of the great readiness in the area of solidarity, so that these forces are also slowly exhausted. When you read these numbers, there is something else you need to consider. When we say that more than 10,000 volunteer paramedics have been involved, this already means one fifth of all the operational ambulances we have in Slovenia. When we say we've included more than a thousand soldiers, it means we've already used one week of all the soldiers we have at our disposal, only 7 thousand 600. In short, these forces, organised, operational, prepared and trained to operate in cases of natural and other accidents, have a limited number at our disposal. And we need to understand that a number of other measures will be needed to spread this base of people, rescue workers. In this regard, it is also important that some of you have opened up the issue of prevention, preparedness, not least the self-protection of the population, so that it can act and behave in cases of natural disasters. True, we are facing climate change that will cause natural disasters, and we will have to learn to live with natural disasters, learn to live with water and floods. We will therefore need more support in the introduction of the subject Protection against Natural and Other Disasters in Primary Schools. At this point, we have 70 schools that introduced this subject into their curriculum for this year's school year. We will need more of this kind of support, and more young people will have to know the environment in which we are in the future. This, of course, does not solve the situation for older people to need courses or training or a wider education on the awareness of natural disasters, where, as was the case today in one of the parliamentary debates, the media play an important role. This preventive role of the media is important, for sure, but we have seen that when people are affected by the accident, the media no longer have the right power. Coordination of assistance on the way to Montenegro has not been done for television audiences in recent days, but on the road. People didn't have time to watch TV, they didn't have time to read the papers. They stood on the road and waited for help to come from and looked around to help themselves. We need to discover and find ways to communicate with people in an accident by being directly in an accident with them. And I hope to say that the congregations I visited in these days in some congregations had this ability to communicate directly with affected people. They were visiting them. And we also used every force, rescue, military and police force to collect data from the ground so that we could make a proper evaluation of the needs for assistance. And here we now come to the question that has been repeatedly raised today, whether we have sufficiently involved the military, either the military or the police or other forces for protection, rescue and assistance. As far as the military is concerned, its role in the system of protection against natural and other disasters is specified in a number of laws, from Article 14 of the Defence Act to Article 37 of the Defence Act to Article 23 of the Service Act in the Slovenian Army. It is not last regulated by the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters. But it is essential to say that all of you and all those at local level responsible for protecting against natural and other disasters must be able to assess the situation well. And as some have said, the army can be used, know that there are 7 thousand 600 of them, that 450 are always in international operations, but the rest can be used in various cities across Slovenia, together with technology, if we know what are the most critical points where soldiers can help with their technique and also with their power and knowledge best. However, it is no longer possible to dream about the systems that we once had decades ago, the times when we had a large number of recruits serving in the service of the military and it was possible for the mass of soldiers to be shown on the ground. Today we need to be extremely specific, and we need to know exactly where we're going to send these professionals and what they're going to do. It is most inappropriate to think that professionals — members of the Slovenian Armed Forces — are people who perform community service instead of those services that we have at our disposal and are paid and should perform these tasks in congregations or at different levels. As far as the question that you are opening up is concerned, are these amendments to the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters already in place to resolve what should be resolved when it comes to regulating the status of volunteers? Of course, not everything is solved, this is a trend, this is the path that we have set for ourselves, and we will make sure that in all the laws that are yet to come and in which we can also regulate the status of these people, we will make sure that they have the right points of support. At this point, we can say that in the Disability and Pension Insurance Act and in the Real Estate Tax Act, we have managed to write down at least the basics that will be able to solve better, to regulate the status of volunteers, but the final regulatory status will never be achieved, I would say, because the essence of the legislation is, however, to build on, to complement, not least in line with what is happening in our real life. It is true, however, that it is important to distinguish between situations that require current assistance and those which are essential in the law, that in a systematic way, the right ways be set up to resolve the status of all volunteers and the status of all rescuers in the future. I think that, with the promises we made in February this year in the general debate on this site, we have gone in the direction that we can say, even in today's changes, that we are already doing a lot of this. But each one of us would like to see legislation adopted more quickly. But legislation has its own special path. And this path is one to be respected. Last but not least, to this extent, when some ask whether the congregations and various associations or communities of congregations have had or have given any opinion on this law, and whether we are in harmony. Let me say that we have aligned the law with the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and with the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, as well as with the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia. Finally, the law was available for 30 days for additional comments in the municipalities, and so far these additional comments have not yet been received. As I say, marriages have their lives, they need a lot of time, and I think they need to be well thought out. When you have raised the question of responsibility for the system of protection against natural and other disasters, in the direction of whether it is the task of the municipalities or whether it is the task of the State. The fact is, and the legislation clearly stipulates that we all have our responsibilities and responsibilities in the system of protection against natural and other disasters. The State has great powers at systemic level, at general level, and also in cases where large interventions are under way, and not least when the Republic Civil Protection Staff is in operation. However, the local communities, the congregations, cannot and must not give up their powers. Let me say again, in these days when we have encountered mayors who know their own congregation and their own people, mayors who have been able to predict in their system where they will need firefighters, where soldiers, where they need help in terms of police protection, who were able to use their own civil protection commander, in all these congregations, our assistance has gone well and all paramedics have been well used. But there is something else you need to know, ladies and gentlemen, we are very good when it comes to immediate assistance. It's the eighth day, and we've already spent a lot of our powers. What we need to know to establish is not only that at the moment of the accident we all arrive and offer our capabilities, it is important to rationally deploy these forces. And as some warn, it is important to remedy the consequences of accidents in an appropriate manner. Space needs to be repaired in the right way and it needs to be preventive, pre-acting so that we know how to live with disasters. Interresor cooperation. Of course, the Ministry of Defence is not the one that will now solve all problems due to the consequences of natural disasters. However, in the Resolution on the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, we have jointly accepted a commitment to establish or develop a platform for protection and resolution at the inter-ministerial level, in particular in the area of prevention. I hope that the latest events will also contribute to bringing this platform to life as soon as possible. You are not aware of the problem of medical examinations. We need to separate medical examinations when it comes to paramedics. They are divided into general health examinations and specialist medical examinations. What we are dealing with here is, in fact, specialist health checks, which are for about a thousand operational firefighters at the annual level. And this type of health checks, which are also part of the training programme for the use of insulating respiratory appliances, is now taken over by the Directorate of Protection and Rescue and will ensure that these checks are done in the most cost-effective but effective way. It is true, however, that when it comes to the issue of general health checks, we have not yet taken sufficient steps to move forward in what some in the past have warned, possibly for several municipalities or at the level of fire liaisons, district fire liaisons or even higher, that arrangements are in the most orderly and also in the most cheap way possible to carry out these health checks. Some of you have mentioned the problems of concessional units and that these units would have some kind of reserve structure or I think it was even said, a reserve force. I must say that it is possible to include people in the contractual reserve, among the contractual members of civil protection, but it will not be possible to include them in the military reserve, as this would then violate international law which clearly sets out the differences between members of civil protection and members of a military organisation. You have also raised the issue of the budget. I must say again that the defence budget lost 14% of its assets in the past year and that we are working with 14% less than planned this year. For next year's new budget, we are also looking at 10% less than this year's. This is not about whether we are going to take someone from within this budget and who we are going to give them to. It is the fact that we must all start to realize together that security investments should not be slashed, whatever these investments are, into security. Even when it comes to the dual nature of the resources we have in the security and rescue system or in the military defence system. I think we should maintain a positive attitude towards the issue of investment. Ladies and gentlemen! I hope that you will also support the law, as you have predicted, in the future, to support other solutions that we will propose in other laws. One question has been raised, which does not fall within the context of this law, which will be addressed to, I suppose, greater experts than me when it comes to the synchronisation of the operation of prisons on individual rivers. I must say that, together with my colleagues, we very much agree that in Slovenia, as other countries know, the operation of power plants in all rivers must be synchronized in such a way as to prevent such flows from protecting people in one area and endangering them in other areas. This is a question for hydroenergy and the obligation to synchronize the operation of their hydropower plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1. I see one, two hands. Check-in is on. Each debater will have 5 minutes at his disposal. Mr. Borut Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice greetings to the minister and to the coworkers! I must say that Slovenia has a good system of protection and rescue, effective, with as much legal change as we have on the table today, and we are upgrading it and improving it, which is why it has all the support. The moments, the days when nature is angry, bring on a wide variety of reflections, and I am sure that from the experience of the stories of the past days we will learn many things. It is clear, however, that the most effective part of the protection and rescue system is the Slovenian fire extinguisher, so I am pleased about the equality of services as well as medical examinations for those most exposed, most burdened, we are taking steps and solutions forward. However, it is also a second question whether it is always, and every time, that firefighters and firefighters, volunteers perform and replace the task of beekeepers, half-harves and anyone else, malnourished people who do not shut down water and need to intervene with a blue light, for public money, for public costs to support laziness and negligence. I'm sure that's not the case, and that firefighters and firefighters have become too much of a girl for everything because of their service. I don't think it's normal for us to have 10 plumbers and a utility company in the congregation, if someone has started to leave water in their apartment, to intervene with a fireman's 300,000-euro vehicle and the entire crew. Many times the congregation’s assignment and the task of the State were highlighted. Listen, we're all one. And smart congregations, smart masters squeeze in at what metre of asphalt, at the fire department, and we don't save on flood safety. I come from a congregation where we bought six fire trucks in four years because we had a system in a mess, because with a 20-year-old van that doesn't have ABS and anything else, you have nothing to save. Restoration of firehouses is also needed, and I am glad that the country’s and country’s nationals are helping us with voluntary contributions. As far as the water is concerned — indeed, the time has come and the time has come for us to join the leaders and, above all, call their work bob beans. I have heard that in Slovenia we have 60 eminent experts in a water institution. When he rips off the municipal road because of his poor work in the watercourses, that is our problem. The project must be commissioned because all the walls are in the air because the water level has deepened by one metre. Excuse me, water level is a matter of leaders, concessionaires and others, and the concept of concessionaires is completely over. The vast majority of these companies are now in private hands and gentlemen are most concerned about their earnings, profits. And this year, when we had the money, the biggest pressure of concessionaires was to transfer half of the programme from this year to 2011. Where there was 5,000 euros of damage yesterday, after tomorrow's storm, 10 or 15. And a whole bunch of some lobbyist, slippery structures need to pour clean wine right now. Floods. Floods are a natural phenomenon. If we have two liters of water and only one liter of space, if we want to pour it all in, it goes something over. But we stole too much space from the waters – like agriculture. What's happening today where it's flooded is where our grandfathers and grandparents never built houses. They already knew why, and they had a memory longer than we had, 10, 15 years. 100-year-old water, because it's known that Valvasor already wrote where the floods were. Now that the weather is changing, there'll be more. At the expense of some short-term capital interest, we have built where we should and should not have. I'm sure we'll talk about these things. Ministry, Minister, you have prepared a good law, will receive support, which is still upgrading the good system.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u81	Mr. Marian Krizman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you. When I was talking about some people watching TV, I was thinking about this lady who came by on Monday morning and said she was watching TV and she didn't see any firefighters. What the hell is this? It was a contact show. Of course, all the others involved in this contact show ran over this lady further and further, so it was very indicative that this was a rude question. When I said that, I didn't want anything else, but just to be heard by such people in Parliament, that such questions don't come in the context of the next day, when the sun is shining, when things need to be resolved, to put yourself in the position that everything is being resolved only through this point of view of you. In this case, there was a lady who was on TV. This is what I wanted to explain to you because it's just that I wanted this lady to hear me and to be ashamed of her statement on the radio. However, I wanted to ask you, Madam Minister, why, when all the damage is described, agricultural crops are not also described. If you knew that, of course, I'd like to know why not. That was all I wanted to ask you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Križman, I would like to tell you that the Minister is not registered and can no longer answer, so I wanted to warn you that you are not asking questions. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday, 28 in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. 9. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. On the day-to-day basis, this is firstly a proposal for a law on the Automobile Society in the Republic of Slovenia within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the proposal. Mr Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! This is a proposal for a law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. In this general debate, I would like to say the following. This law brings two essential substantive areas of content. The first is a new system for organising and financing the construction, management and maintenance of motorways. Dars builds and restores the motorway network on the basis of valid law and according to the national highway construction programme. Under this Act, Dars has two long-term contracts with the Republic of Slovenia: a contract for the execution of the contract for the execution of the construction and renewal of the motorway under which he carries out all tasks for the account of the State and a concession contract for the maintenance and management of motorways under which he takes over the management and maintenance of the motorway he has built. The implementation of the basic programme under the national highway construction programme is now being completed. It's coming to an end. For his performance, Dars hired more loans in his own name, but with the State guarantee. The total value of loans is now EUR 2.9 billion of long-term loans, 61.9 million short-term loans. This together represents slightly less than 10% of GDP. Taking into account the fact that the State of Marriage is a mortgaged loan in view of the state of the global economic crisis, which limits the available both real and potential public funds, it is clear that financing through State guarantees for future programmes will no longer be a way to build motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. It is therefore necessary to seek alternative sources of funding, in particular taking into account the public-private partnership, which would be particularly meaningful for motorways, in contrast to rail infrastructure, since the sustainability of such public-private partnerships due to to tolls, which are appropriately higher than rail usages, is the best way to build. I regret that construction has taken place in the past in a different way than we propose in the proposed law. If, in the introduction of our national programme for the construction of motorways, they had already decided to build concessions early, they could not be allocated to state highways, but would be allocated to Slovenian railways. This train, if I use the parable of the railway infrastructure, is otherwise delayed at this point. With regard to rail infrastructure, it is much more difficult to reach a public-private partnership because the use, as I mentioned earlier, is appropriately lower or much lower. Speaking of absolute numbers, we collected around EUR 230 million of tolls last year, while we collected some less than EUR 10 million for the longer length of rail infrastructure than for the highway infrastructure. So unfortunately, as a country, this opportunity to build motorway concessions has been delayed and we want to change it in the future. We are aware at the Ministry that the railway network must also be modernised. As far as the concessions are concerned. For each section of the motorway, a concession will be granted either to Dars, but there is a possibility that it will also be awarded to the other concessionaire if the concession is awarded. At the same time as the concession, the concessionaire will acquire the building right on the land where the section will take place and build this section with his own resources without guarantees. After its construction, for a period for which a building right will be granted, which will not exceed 50 years, the motorway section will manage and maintain. The renewal of motorways is regulated under the new legislation in the context of maintenance, which is in accordance with the general rules on the construction of buildings which are considered to be investment renewal and maintenance. Thus, in the context of maintenance, it is also the full burden of the concessionaire, which he will provide with his own resources, as well as regular maintenance and management. The financial obligations of the State thus remain spatial planning, placement in space, land acquisition. These activities will be carried out by Dars on the basis of the mandate of the State and will be able to entrust these tasks to another operator. As I can see, I'm running out of time, and I'll be in the debate later. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anderlič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u86	Your Honor! Decisions are made when a situation matures or when you are forced to act. We could say that we have a marriage ahead of us, at last, but not as optimistic as it would be necessary. More than six years have passed, and in the spring of 2004, this option, which is now before us, but then because of the compulsion to enter the European Union and if we did not do so, would probably have lost Dars or the company that was then collecting the toll, collecting and managing this money. Now we are obviously forced by another fact that we are threatened that in 2011 this debt will not be treated as an undisclosed debt and that is why we are going, among other things, to change it. I welcome this to finally come to know who, in whose name and whose account this activity is. After all, it would make sense, I do not believe in this optimistic plan, that we will be able to repay four billion and 160 million Euros already from this title from the revenues that Dars will have by 2037. This is an optimistic plan, a scenario, also because it will probably be necessary to issue other securities or to borrow on the market in order to upgrade roads, motorways against Drazenec, Markovec and even a number of other sections, including on the fast roads envisaged by the construction programme. But let's just leave it. We will have the opportunity, at least to monitor annually, whether those plans that have been put in place and concluded for them are also realized and whether Dars is a good master who will, of course, manage state property, because the country as the sole owner of the motorways and motorways will be 100 % owner by now. He would be alone and also at the Liberal Democracy Club in order to enter a strategic partner, including private capital into this society, in order to speed up and get fresh capital, to speed up the construction of certain fast roads, which would soon have to come into line in this programme. I also believe that, in terms of future management of toll roads in particular, there will be quicker decisions than now, when it is only in the government, at the Ministry, that it will take decisions on plans for the introduction of electronic tolls, as well as on the conclusion of certain contracts that are at least in some cases taking place inappropriately long. Here, at least when it comes to some of these works and countless complaints, audits and procedural delays, I firmly believe that with a better organisation, both in Dars, both in DDC and in all the services dealing with these issues, we could solve a lot more quickly. In the spring we witnessed some praises to some people as they helped solve a problem along the highway that had been there for 10 years. But they had a contract with Dars both DDC and DDC who bought land on behalf of DDC – and they didn't do anything! Here I will ask the question of the Member of the Union as soon as possible, and it has been set up several times as to how the whole process of decommissioning of the two known cases has been carried out on the road of the lower highway. I myself firmly believe that some who have been paid for this have not done their own things. This can be proved, because we already have a law, although we would like to accelerate the acquisition of land for public infrastructure, but the current law is such that within six years it is certain that someone can relax, but not by then coming there, is supposed to speak to that owner and he says, now that you have come, but I will go down from this land. This simply shouldn't be happening in this country. However, this, of course, caused a few years of delay in building this road. Therefore, I believe that even if Dars has this power under this law, he will be more interested in building faster, that the money will be more rationally reversed, and that there will be no false silence, that is, because we will go for credit and guarantee to the state and we will get it, and we will build it whenever and whatever. As it is said, given that this law, I agree with the Minister, comes late and such a way of regulating matters, but in 2004, when we could make this leap, it was obviously not mature enough to realize that it is better that this is ultimately a necessity such a way, but I believe at least that things will move faster now. However, I think it is also possible, from the Minister's point of view, to talk about railways, but if we go there – at this point, of course, when we talk about Dars, about the Motorways Society – we can probably go there with some faster and bolder moves, including a change of law, and I believe that there will be movement there, and even then the Liberal Democracy will support efforts to do something faster. But, as it is said, we are now in the Dars Act, and I believe that this is a nice step forward and that in the near future we may get another private investor who will enter society with his potential and some projects will be implemented more quickly. We'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u88	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group of Members! The proposal for a company law for motorways in the Republic of Slovenia is urgently adopted this year. In fact, it is also about taking account of the change in accounting standards. So far, it has been considered that the infrastructure was owned and operated by the controller, in this case on the Dars motorways. This new change, of course, requires us not least to decide whether to manage this infrastructure on the basis of a leased contractual relationship or to become, after all, this infrastructure network, the motorway ownership network of the Motorways Company. The law brings the actual transfer of motorways to the property of the Company for Motorways and, of course, it will also be necessary to amend the concession contract accordingly, which will also regulate this relationship accordingly. Another important criterion, which has certainly conditioned such a content of the law, is, last but not least, the indebtedness of the Company for Motorways in relation to the construction of motorways, since at some point this debt could also become the debt of the Republic of Slovenia and since we are both in the European Union and, last but not least, in the society of the countries that have taken over the euro, we are, of course, also subject to more difficult criteria as to what debt the State may have. This also solves this problem, which could have arisen if Darsa’s debt had moved to the country. Of course, it is high amounts, some EUR 3 billion, and the final figure of over EUR 4 billion is certainly an amount that would dramatically affect the indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, Dars will not be in an enviable position when he assumes this obligation, because in Darsa's history of operation, the toll system has mainly changed, and if he had stayed on the closed toll system from the very beginning, this transition would have been much easier, as much more resources would have been available for credit payments and not least for highway maintenance. In the meantime, we changed motorway or tolling in order to build an open toll system and then the process continued in such a way that we did not last introduce vignettes. What was also somehow fatal for the successful operation of Darsa is that even in the last six years the financing of the construction of motorways has been drastically reduced by means of dedicated means. This was also one of the important interventions in the financial construction of motorways, so that in the last period motorways are exclusively built with debt. These are the facts that society will have to face. Therefore, it will certainly be very important that we continue with the tolling procedures that will reintroduce tolling after a mile and thus, we can say, Dars will be more easily able to handle all the responsible and important tasks that he will assume by adopting this law when he becomes the owner of this infrastructure. What is also important in this law is the relationship between the National Assembly and the Society for Motorways. In fact, until now the National Assembly has adopted such a national programme and a rebalancing of the national programme for the construction of motorways, has also adopted an annual programme for the maintenance and construction of motorways, and under this law the competence of the National Assembly will still be the adoption of the national programme for the construction of motorways, not the annual programmes. The advantage of such a decision is to ensure more operational implementation of maintenance and construction of motorways. On the other hand, the question arises as to what at a time when a national programme may not be respected in the content that we will adopt in the National Assembly. Indeed, it must not be overlooked that in the history of the national highway construction programme, there have also been such decisions as have been made in the existing, existing national highway construction programme and, last but not least, this decision has not been covered by the amendment of the national programme in the National Assembly. One such decision in the previous mandate was a change in the way motorways were financed when it switched to debt financing. And such cases, however, will also have to be provided for in this Act on the Association for Motorways, how Parliament actually reacts at the time when we find that the national programme is not being implemented in accordance with the adopted programme in the National Assembly, and how to establish this responsibility of Dars to the National Assembly, which will have to be very appropriate. So there is certainly some reflection in this area in particular that is still necessary for further consideration of this law. Otherwise, in the Group of Social Democrats we support the Proposal for a Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and we believe that it is absolutely necessary to adopt it this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Verlič has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u90	Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister with Colleagues, Honourable Colleagues and Colleagues! In the opinion of the Government, the proposed Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, which was submitted by the Government, was intended to pursue the following objectives, at least as set out in the law's explanatory note: the transfer of financing for construction and the restoration of motorways to the private sector; the training of Dars for the effective implementation of the concession and the repayment of the credits he has hired for this purpose; the removal or restriction of the possibility that State guarantees would be cashed out due to Dars insolvency; the ability of the company to effectively adapt to market conditions; and the regulation of real-law relations with regard to motorways in view of the abolition of assets in management. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that all these objectives could also be achieved through the existing Dars Act, especially with more effective control over the company's business and the care of lowering costs, which is of course the responsibility of the owner, that is, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We are convinced that the new law in Dars would not bring about an improvement in the situation, especially in terms of the good performance of public procurement and the control of costs, at least it does not appear in this law. More. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we find that the new law actually controls the government over Darsa and thus even distances the spending of taxpayer's money. Dars is getting control of himself or the government says Dars is supposed to become a regular society, but we're wondering if it's really a normal society. Let us look at some concrete comments that, in our view, require serious reflection on the meaning of the law. Already in Article 2, Dars is defined as a company established by the Dars Act, Official Gazette 57/93 and recast by amendments, Official Gazette 126/3. However, the two laws under which Dars is defined in Article 2 shall cease to apply with the final provision in Article 25. So the question of the status of Dars is immediately asked, which is no longer at all. The form of society, the congregation, the oversight council — the legal form of Darsa after the new — is not in this law. In our view, we are right to believe that the Government and the Ministry want to completely avoid control of society and leave it to themselves. The existing law was better. The role of the owner, the role of the government as a congregation, the supervisory council, the appointment of the board of directors of the company, this has been enshrined in the law, which is now deleted. Why? Actually, it's gone. It's not! Although Dars is defined as a company established under these laws, Article 25 of these two laws cease to apply immediately. They shall cease immediately from the day this law enters into force. Therefore, in this proposal, the status form law of Dars and, above all, its control is no longer in place, is not written, except in the part that, of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, as the grantor of the concession, undertakes to monitor the construction in accordance with the concession contract. We believe that this is a major flaw, and we do not know why it was omitted in the first place. Dars, in our opinion, is no ordinary society. According to Article 3 of the bill, Dars was to perform, on behalf of and on behalf of the company, the tasks relating to spatial planning and the placement of motorways in space and the acquisition of real estate – something similar to the existing law. However, Article 9 of this proposal states that funds shall be provided for these purposes in the State budget. However, in the explanation of the bill on page 9, if you look at the text, it says that the bill does not provide for the use of budgetary resources explicitly set out in Article 9 in order to allocate funds from the state budget and, of course, it is stated in the explanatory statement that no budgetary resources will be required. Well, there's something wrong here. So whether the budget will be needed or not, or whether it does not support the reasons, or whether the article in the law is written down a little awkwardly. We further wonder whether the proposed law is indeed not subject to coordination with the acquis of the European Union. In accordance with Article 7 of this Law, the Republic of Slovenia and Darsa are to conclude a concession contract for the duration of the construction until the end of the repayment of all credits. Dars is becoming an ordinary concessionaire, but we ask ourselves, what are the remaining competitions - are we not working under the conditions of the free European market? We believe that this article is contrary to the accession treaty and the European acquis, because it favours Dars in some way to other entities, which in our view violates the principle of competitiveness and the free market of the European Union. If we accepted this before joining the European Union, it probably wouldn't be wrong, but I don't know if the concession can now only be signed by getting Dars in advance and the rest of the competition is eliminated. There's no real explanation. In a way, someone might understand that it's a monopoly. In short, this should certainly be clarified, for no matter how true it is that the concession can then be awarded to someone else. Then we ask ourselves, what's Dars? Why, then, do we need the Dars Act if, in fact, others can enter the construction concession, and they must probably enter under European law. Probably. We are further interested in how the Directive on the interoperability of European toll systems is taken into account, which also requires the creation of a toll service with users, service providers, toll collectors, operators and ultimately interoperability operators. There is not a word in the law on this, although the tolls are supposed to be one of the primary sources for Dars, this collection is not regulated anywhere and obviously does not have to be taken into account. And in the end. The basis for concessions is the national programme. Article 5 clearly states that the national programme should include motorway sections with an initial and final point, with their deadlines and the intended means. We support this idea, of course, because it is no more beautiful than you have in your national programme sections A to B and future plans. Unfortunately, it would be better if this bill were to be accompanied by this national programme, which will in fact be a work plan for the future reformed Dars, but we do not have a national programme. So, how will it work until the adoption of the national programme? How will it be built, how will it be distributed? In short, I think these documents should come in parallel, at the same time, to the National Assembly. Last but not least, the definition of ownership rights on motorways in Article 13 should probably be more precisely defined, as it seems to us that there is no precise definition of what goes into ownership, which part of the motorway. As it is written, it seems that these are not motorways like road constructions, but rather highway bases. In short, I hope we get an explanation. In fact, if I conclude, we see no distinction between the existing Dars Act and the proposal concerning debt management and debt servicing and debt servicing. The commitments made by the State remain subject to the new regime. Dars will be obliged to take into account a national programme that is unfortunately not yet in place. It is also likely that any restrictions on the level of tolls will be imposed by the Government, and all of this is in fact taken into account in the existing law. It is true, however, that this new law, which we believe should also be in this new one, is the control of the owner over society – this is omitted, and it is said that it is the desire to avoid political control of Dars as much as possible. This is why we feel that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u92	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present. Dars was transformed from an original public company in 2004 into a stock company to 100 % of the country's ownership. Dars implements, on the basis of a contract with the State, the construction and renewal of motorways and maintains and manages built motorways on the basis of the concession contract. So far, Dars has committed himself to the construction of motorways with the State guarantee of approximately EUR 3 billion, which represents a potential public debt and threatens to meet the Stability Pact criteria, and this is precisely the basic reason for the proposed law, which builds on the concept of Darsa shares company by reshaping highways on behalf of and on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia by building and managing motorways for its guarantee-free account and resulting risks for the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the proposed law solves the problem of ownership relations in respect of motorways, to which the Court of Auditors has pointed out that the Republic of Slovenia is transferring motorways as a property to Dars and that the land under motorways remains owned by the Republic of Slovenia and establishes a building right for 50 years in favour of Darsa. Under the proposed law, Dars will also carry out, on behalf of and on behalf of the State, placements in the premises, design and purchase of the necessary land for the further construction or implementation of a national programme for the construction of motorways in work that is not yet completed, which includes Article 3 of the Act, and will build, maintain and operate Slovenian motorways and other toll roads on the basis of the concession contract. To this end, it will be necessary to complement the existing national programme for the construction of motorways more precisely, since, for individual, unstructured sections, the initial and final points of sections and the envisaged deadlines for the construction of individual sections and, last but not least, sanctions for non-compliance with these basic elements of the concession contract will be necessary. The adoption and implementation of the proposed law constitutes the first phase of Darsa's status and organisational changes, and in the next stages, which will certainly be more demanding, it will be necessary to choose the appropriate solutions for the redefining of Darsa's credit portfolio. The law also provides a final solution to the value added tax issue. With the amendments submitted, the role of the Government and Parliament narrows down to the adoption of the completion of the national programme for the construction of motorways without annual annual programmes, while at the same time increasing the responsibility of the administration and supervisory board of Darsa and others. In the Group of Members, we are really going to put forward the concept of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the changes that Dars will take over in the concessional relationship in the area of the construction of the motorway all financial obligations related to the construction and later to the reconstruction of the motorway. A new concession contract for the construction of motorways will be concluded between the company as a concessionaire and the Republic of Slovenia, which will regulate legal relations between the parties in accordance with the law. Resources for financing the construction will in particular be Darsa's revenue and the loans that the company will rent on its behalf. Construction of motorways is one of the more important projects in Slovenia, nearing the end, will be followed by renovations and maintenance. We also support solutions to keep motorways public. We fear, however, how the so-called flexible operation of a company is going to work, which is supposed to be achieved in a new way, bringing it closer to the position of other private companies. We propose that additional safeguards and provisions for the supervision and transparent functioning of Darsa be introduced until the second reading. Indeed, state control must be maintained in order not to imply this provision in the future of the privatisation of motorways or to prevent our motorway from becoming foreign. It is therefore important what concession contract the State will conclude with Dars, and it is imperative that the content of the concession contract be formulated carefully and that the obligations of Dars to the State be laid down. We therefore support solutions that will enable the continuation and completion of urgent investments and the provision of recovery in later times. At the same time, we stress that the Members of the Slovenian People's Party will closely monitor the implementation of the continuation of the construction of motorways, their maintenance, especially the implementation of the concession contract and the operation of Darsa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor, on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the Proposal for a Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia [[Dars]] which significantly changes the scope of the tasks that the company will carry out in the future in its own name and on its own account. It will fully take over the financing of the construction and reconstruction of motorways and fast roads. The Dars Law will also regulate the real status of highways as objects that Dars built so that they become your property. The company will, according to the applicants, be able to pay off uninterrupted loans on its behalf for the construction of motorways and to build new sections as this law will create greater flexibility for its operation, in particular by abolishing the special provisions limiting its operation. The law will regulate the transfer of financing for construction and the restoration of motorways to the private sector. Dars will be competent for the effective implementation of the concession and for the repayment of the credits he has leased for this purpose. It is also intended to eliminate or limit the possibility that State guarantees will be cashed out due to Dars insolvency. The law establishes a concessional relationship in the area of the construction of motorways. Dars is becoming a concessionary and will assume all the financial obligations related to construction for the new motorway sections. A new contract will be concluded between the company as a concessionaire and the country for each concession obtained, which will regulate legal relations between the parties in accordance with the law. Resources for financing the construction will in particular be Darsa's income and the loans that the company will rent on its behalf. The bill also foresees that the state will remain the owner of the land and Dars will have the building right to become the owner of the infrastructure on that land. In order to ensure the capital adequacy of Darsa, recapitalisation with certain land and real property is also envisaged. Darsa’s founding capital is only EUR 212 000, which is very little for a society like Dars. We would like to draw attention to the issue of sustainable development and restrictions on transit transport in the Member States. According to our assessment, this issue of restricting transit transport is also related to the debate on the design of Slovenian logistics holding company or the debate on logistics in Slovenia. Unfortunately, however, the interests of companies, such as Luke Koper and Slovenian Railways, appear to be different. Nor can we ignore the pressures that are going, of course, to reduce the environmental burden, so that part of the transit freight traffic is diverted to the railways. This diversion, of course, means a reduction in Darsa’s tide and, consequently, an even worse economic picture. The accounting value of all motorways built is about EUR 5.8 billion. Of this, the land is worth €400 million. The capital of Darsa's debt is €3 billion and the interest is about €1.2 billion. The president of the public administration also states that the company does not have a tax debt, which, according to the latest information circulated through the media, is not true. Therefore, we would like to get clear answers from the competent minister on the level of Dars' debt to the tax administration in the discussion of this law in the DeSUS Group. In order to meet the requirements of the Stability Pact regarding the level of public debt, it is important that Slovenia minimizes the risks of becoming an explicit public debt by the potential public debt. This is also the main reason why in the Desus Group we tend to support this law. We are afraid that given that Darsa’s current debt represents almost 10% of the GDP of the Republic of Slovenia in the event of Darsa’s insolvency, this debt falls entirely on the shoulders of the state. This would mean that we no longer meet the requirements of the Stability Pact. However, since this bill brings such status and organisational changes to Dars to allow for the transfer of the entire or at least its bulk of potential public debt to the private sector, we will also support this proposal in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek is also on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A nice welcome to the representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed law is intended to establish a concessional relationship for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and the concessionaire is expected to become Dars, who will also take care of the maintenance or renewal of motorways and will finance his activities from his own revenues, namely tolls and, of course, from the loans that the company itself will rent. Other contractual relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Darsa will also be interesting. According to this proposal, the built motorways of Darsa are becoming the property of the law, while the renewal and maintenance will be financed from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Building rights for properties owned by the Republic of Slovenia are acquired by Dars, while motorways and other properties not built by Dars represent the actual contribution of the Republic of Slovenia, as it is also duly entered in the land register and the court register. This law is also intended to ensure a more flexible functioning of the company as an economic society, and it will also be appropriate to operate and operate it. The Act also provides for a transitional period for the harmonisation of existing contracts between the Republic of Slovenia and Dars, to be concluded by the Contracting Parties within six months of the entry into force of this Act. In short, Dars acquires ownership of that motorway and other infrastructure, as well as the right to collect the toll and the obligation to manage and service debts. The company is expected to be able to implement the concession effectively and to operate flexibly on the market. The law is intended to ensure transparency and economic efficiency in regulating relations between the Republic of Slovenia and Dars, by building motorways for his own account and thus taking on all the related obligations. All right and fine, but a number of questions and outstanding issues are being raised, which should also be clarified and clarified to the Slovenian public as part of the adoption of this law. One of these is Dars' debts. Only on the basis of unpaid VAT is the debt to the country of around EUR 250 million, what the predecessor was asking, or even more. It is likely that the payment of this debt will never occur, for it is precisely with the new law that Dars could avoid this obligation. On the other hand, it is clear to all of us that Dars has no money to pay off his debts. While the Minister claims that this problem will be solved by amending the Dars Act, it is not clear to us how the debt could be paid in practice. As we informally learned, the matter was supposed to be on the Court of Auditors' desks. It is not the first time that the Court of Auditors deals with matters in connection with Darsa, since the debt mentioned above is approximately the same. EUR 250 million for VAT was found in the audit last year, when it processed the feasibility of implementing and financing the motorway construction programme. Durs also carried out a tax review at the Court of Auditors’ notice, as it is a fact that Dars did not account for the exit VAT in the construction of motorways. According to DURS, the additional tax liabilities identified so far by Darsa are over EUR 400 million. If the purpose of the adoption of the new Dars Act is to avoid paying off such and other debts, then the proposer of the new law with the above-mentioned objectives, principles and planned solutions is honestly misleading us, not to say, to draw us up. In the Slovenian National Party, we ask whether this represents some kind of innovation in the way and strategy of this government's work with regard to cooperation with this National Assembly. It would be fair for the competent department to come every day with open cards and present to us, the Member and the entire Slovenian public the real goals. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that there is no hurry to adopt the law in question, that this matter must be given all the attention, because the harsh and very expensive experiences of the past should teach us and remind us of the greatest thefts and crime and cartel deals of the construction lobby related to the construction of the Slovenian highway cross, tunnels, viadukts and so on. And as a result, of course, the theft of funds from the state budget and the poverty of our country's financial substance. We all know that there are huge amounts of money in the game, huge debts, not to mention expensive and all the much-needed frequent maintenance of such poorly built highway infrastructure, whose value, accounting, of all motorways built in the Republic of Slovenia is almost €6 billion, with only a capital of about 3 billion and a debt of interest of approx. 1.2 billion and so on, as the predecessor has already mentioned. In short, we probably have the most expensive motorways in the world, and we cannot at any rate boast the proper, prudent and economical construction of motorways in the past, not to mention the integrity of operators, as well as those responsible for the tenders and the broadcasting of works. Thanks to these actors, especially due to cartel arrangements between contractors, the construction of the highway cross was unreasonablely costly. However, the country has also become a victim of its own fault and the recipient of huge debts, not to mention the necessity of borrowing additional credits, as the current dynamic of toll collection with vignettes lacks sufficient resources to complete projects under the national highway construction programme. In short, the problem will have to be solved. However, if such a rescue plan fails, the state will probably have to find a strategic partner, because this new law will not solve the problems, and Dars will have to get rid of the bankruptcy with the new budget injections. The partial or complete privatisation of Dars would in fact mean that the State renounces the highway cross, which has the status of public goods. The new law, however, includes certain important safeguards that will prevent self-determination in determining tolls of its own volition and maintaining the current importance of the infrastructure. We expect, however, that we and the Slovenian public, i.e. taxpayers, the Ministry of Transport, will explain in detail and in an understandable manner how it will only be status and change to ensure that Dars is able to repay the current debt. In order to implement the national programme, a number of investments are envisaged for individual sections on the upper, lower and coastal legs, which will cost an additional 1.1 billion euros. Not to mention the additional development axis programme, which will cost several billion euros once again; not to mention the open issue of the Mooring Highway, under the name of the motorway, where it will be necessary sooner or later to undertake the construction of the lanes project if we are to ensure that transit and other traffic is correct, as well as, of course, the safety of participants in transport. As an MP from Prekmur, I regret to say that I have been trying for less than two years to identify the names of the actors or the culprits for that irrational decision, a political decision not to build or even change the construction project on the foot of the highway. So, let me finish. The Slovenian National Party is interested in one answer to a question raised by representatives of the Government. This is which revenue will provide Dars with the repayment of credits and at the same time the construction of new sections, as well as the payment of maintenance and management costs of motorways, and in particular if we note the demands and necessity of shifting freight transport to the railway, which will certainly reduce the inflows to Dars and make the statement of future business worse. Not to mention issues such as currently more than 1,200 Dars employees, the provision of these jobs, the costs of these jobs, etc. You have probably noticed that there are a number of reasons for skepticism in Slovenia's position and we will decide in our conscience in the following discussion if the proposal for a law is even suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Does Mr. Secretary want a word now? Later. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Well welcomed, Mr Minister, Madam President of the Administration, all present, colleagues and colleagues and the President-in-Office! Of course, I will support the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, which does not mean that it is now the first to consider that any amendments, changes or additions are not possible. The law establishes a concessional relationship in the area of the construction of motorways, Dars becomes a concessionary and will assume all financial obligations for the new motorway sections. In the concessional relationship, the restoration of motorways, as well as investment maintenance, will also be carried out. The company's operation is more flexible, bringing it closer to the position of other companies. Of course, there were some controversy in this regard, and I wrote some of them down. In the presentation of the views of the members of the groups, a number of word games or word associations have already been presented when, in some way, the words have been reversed in the pursuit of the objectives and, as a result, the meaning of these words is shown in a more negative light than this amendment to the law. I therefore suggest that, even in the following discussions, colleagues may also clarify certain matters, but not that some of the word links are slightly reversed, because I think here, when describing the pursuit of objectives etc., some of the issues have been taken from the context, even if we have been vigilant and well-tracked by the substantive presentation of some views. Of course, in connection with Dars, the total amount of contracts concluded was EUR 3,395 billion – this is what I am talking about. Of this, €3.31 billion is the capital, with interest of €4.1 billion. 10% of GDP is Dars' debt, public debt 40%. We know what this means compared to the approximation of the Maastricht criterion, which allows countries a maximum of 60% of GDP. The law, which is of a legal nature, will make Dars, of course, a drastic transformation. Amendments to the law are necessary because the concept of investing money in the Company for the Construction of Motorways is exhausted. The debates in the past have been extremely interesting, now that I have been a Member of Parliament in two years, about drawing on and making use of European funds. And it was in connection with the hiring of credits during the period when – more than once – there was a debate on this – a period of fat cows when loans were largely leased at the time. However, we must now move forward and resolve matters, as Mr Minister has already pointed out. However, I agree with some discussions in connection with the motorway network and lending, as well as with what has already been expressed in the Group of Social Democrats, that the State Assembly, as the guarantor of the hiring of Dars loans, in conjunction with the Republic of Slovenia, should remain without direct control over implementation. Of course, we know what the national annual programme for the construction of motorways means, but it will still be in the domain of the National Assembly. It is therefore necessary to regulate the relationship with regard to building rights, including with regard to any additional connections to the motorway network and so on. I come from an area near the Republic of Croatia where concession building is nothing new or special. Maybe sometimes someone says, "Yeah, what are you looking at neighbouring countries, because they're not even in the European Union!" But, look, if we really look at it, I think they beat us to the left and right, if I say so. However, I am not competent to discuss or judge the quality of the construction of the motorway network in the Republic of Croatia. I can express my opinion, but this is certainly not decisive. I'm sure they've taken an important step forward here. In this regard, it is almost sad for the Republic of Slovenia because we are in the European Union, although we have a certain quality transport link. If I mention the area where we come from with our colleague Webro, from Bela krajina and Kočevska, we were truly neglected in the time of Slovenia, as well as in other areas, in Koroška and elsewhere. So, 20 years of independent Slovenia, there was no necessary step. Project documentation is now being prepared for these areas, i.e. development axes – both the 3rd development axis in the north and the south and the Kočevsko region – are a reality. I think it's right to point that out. It has been made public several times that this is not true, but the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Transport are making progress. I must also point out, in connection with the Dars Act, which is also supposed to go in the direction of investment maintenance, it is certainly necessary not only to build motorways, but also to take great care of investment maintenance. There may have been a lack of emphasis in past mandates on this maintenance. Maybe that ambition wasn't enough. Perhaps even from a financial point of view, there was a lack of thinking about how to build motorways, how to use European funds sufficiently. Perhaps not all opportunities and opportunities have been exploited here as well. However, I am now convinced that, in connection with the development of the 8th Ministry of Transport, of course, the Ministry of Environment and Space, with regard to the placement of these roads into the space, will it have to take the necessary steps: will the Company for the Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia be fully located in this direction and will only care for the motorway cross that we have in the Republic of Slovenia and will properly complete it, and will continue to maintain and care for it, and will the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads be the one who will take care of the development axes – in what way, in what form? On the other hand, we are thinking and talking about drawing as many cohesion funds as possible, I think of European funds. Or in this direction we can also think about whether we will, for example - I have already said several times, and I will stress today, in the media we can track, and also in the research of the competent departmental ministries, the economy, that, for example, has a south-eastern Slovenia Krko, Revoz, important parade horses of the Slovenian economy. We are proud of them, we support them, and the Republic of Slovenia supports them, but in the field of transport links, these links are not entirely made here. Why am I talking about this? For the area of the White Land, perhaps even more so if I did not say, scream, or even more insistently, and in order to be given even more attention by the competent ministries in order to connect this road connection. Why? We have been told several times by the large companies responsible for these areas that we should make quality transport connections, and they will also build their installations in this area, let us talk about the White landscape or Kočevski, possibly Koroška, Illyrian Bistrica and more. So I think we should take the necessary steps here. Even if the New Town does not have one quality bypass - every day I drive through this traffic jam of the New City – and I do see Revoz and Krka from near, a hundred meters away, but what helps me if I drive in a column, so obviously we haven't taken care of those on whom we can boast. On the other hand, I am also surprised by the debate on the positions of those who had the opportunity to take the necessary steps with regard to the rail and motorway network. Maybe it's because they kind of repeatedly express themselves as great acquaintances of this area, so I believe that they're going to be able to help you get things going here for the better. However, in connection with this law, I see that a few thoughts, some possible additions will be needed, but I am sure and defend the view that the Ministry of Transport must also make drastic changes, including steps, and in this way also to ensure a transport link in areas where we do not have it and which we have been and are still largely neglected. However, I also wish today by the Government, by the Minister, to have another concrete word in connection with the mere preparation of the continuation of transport links, something in connection with the Dars Act, and something else about the highway network, because the dilemmas and controversy that arise in this pre-election period are precisely about the fact that the third development axes are, etc. Just word games that it's not a reality, but I still hope and I don't think it is. Therefore, I would like to make the most of it to take advantage of the use of Europe's grants, because in the area of highway and other transport networks there is still a real need and it would be a shame to concentrate the entire population only in large cities and all those living in an unspoiled nature in rural areas would be left out in this direction. So I will support the Proposal for a Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia at first reading. I will also support all those amendments that will work for an even more effective and better law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Just for a little while. As has already been said, there are no concerns about the concept itself. Changes are necessary and the concept is basically appropriate, so from this point of view, I do not think there are any major problems, but some questions are being asked. I think that further consideration and clearing of this text will need to be given to some things. I'm thinking first of all Article 2 that defines terms. In particular, I will draw attention to point 3, where the concept of motorways or fast roads is defined. I think this is where a certain embarrassment arises, that we have a quick road defined by a law, not by law. In the national highway construction programme, we have roads that are not by this definition either a highway or a fast road, but there are toll roads and it is likely that the profession will find an appropriate solution so that there will be no abuse – nothing else is involved. The second major problem is financial. Here I think that the law — whether directly unreadable — would even allow itself to say that it is too clear. Why? Dars also assumes credit liabilities by taking over his own roads. Unfortunately, however, in the past, we built a number of other highways at the expense of construction. And now he's gonna have to take on the financial obligations of Dars, those facilities, and I'm gonna be mean, and he's not gonna take over from the different circles, the sidewalks, the chapels and similar "roads" yet. This is, of course, possible to resolve with a concessional act. This cost is not insignificant, regardless of the fact that different data are circulating. I think that by law we should define the starting point for the concessionary act that the Government will accept with the concessionaire, it is clear that they would not impose on Dars the title obligation on the one hand, I will call it, unintendedly spent funds that were, obviously, in the past when the national programme was implemented. There's been a lot of construction, so let's just leave it at that. From this title there are financial obligations and it is not right, because then Dars is putting Dars into additional financial troubles, for which there will be no solution in abundance to come out of this. And for me personally, it's the cost, whether we want it or not, of public debt. And how will this be resolved? Therefore, I think that the text of the law should at least be defined on the basis of these matters. As the text is written now, I do not see any appropriate solution guaranteed through law. These are two warnings, or the concept is appropriate. I think that by making additional effort and cutting this text, we can come up with a quality solution in time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear representatives of the Ministry! It has been more than 17 years since the establishment of the Company for Motorways in Slovenia; a company responsible for the management of motorway construction. In 2004, the company became an economic company of private law. This company was also joined by a public highway maintenance company, so that the maintenance cycle was also completed. A long-term contract for the maintenance and renewal of motorways has also been concluded, which in some ways ensures the smooth implementation of the programme in the context of the national programme for the construction of motorways. Dars, of course, had to rent loans to implement these programmes, which were guaranteed by the state of Slovenia. As can be seen from the text of the bill, these loans now represent potential public debt, which is for a good EUR 2.5 billion. And in the event of Dars’ insolvency, which is a high probability, becomes the payer of the entire debt Republic of Slovenia. Debt is certainly high, as it represents as much as 10% of GDP in the Republic of Slovenia, and this is also a major burden for the country and requires immediate action. In the country's exit strategy, the main objective will be to reshape the relationship between Darsa and the Republic of Slovenia. A multi-phase transformation is planned to enable them to achieve their objectives independently in a commercially sustainable manner. In order to achieve the objectives, however, it is necessary to amend the law, since otherwise the State will continue to provide guarantees for loans to be leased by Dars. Thus, the construction of the motorway will take place in full and at the expense of the private legal entity. Dars built the motorway with credit funds, in his own name and on his own account, with the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course, I cannot help but point out the poor construction of roads, tunnels, poorly planned roads without lanes, where there is therefore a limited speed of 100 kilometres, with slippery tunnels, because we have to ride several times along the snails, which in particular comes out, there are annual repairs and road barriers that appear as fast as possible after the construction of the highway, some even earlier than one year since the opening. So not to mention the disadvantages that heat up the lives of the drivers, the users of the highway, which we have to drive more slowly on the highway than on the old road. Many times you drive from Ljubljana to Maribor for more than two and a half hours, which is unacceptable for today, and causes needless ill will due to congestion caused by incompetent organizers repairing motorways. All users have to pay the toll fairly, so all participants in transport deserve some kind of running traffic in the direction and purpose to which most people are also time bound. I hope that this law will bring about the improvements that are written in the bill, which deals with the main solutions to the bill, and therefore shows the proposal to support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. He won't discuss it. Mr. Bevk alone, he won't discuss it. Mrs. Silva Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. It is clear that I will support the law, but of course there are major topics and very important dilemmas that relate to the very important segment of motorways at the time of law. Already colleague Vila Trofenik made clear the definition of Article 2 and the definition of motorway section, highway and fast road, and how this is consistent with other laws in Slovenia. Regarding the national programme or the construction of highways of Article 4 and building rights, I have already said something in one variant. The building right under this law, in the fifth indent of Article 4, is defined in a way that is established for a maximum of 50 years. I don't know if 50 years is the right time or not. I think that those who have more experience or experience in this area from abroad will be able to say more. But it is certainly far more important to build and implement a concession contract or concession act, as we say, and it is possible to further define the tasks of the contract, what Darsa is responsible for and what is under the jurisdiction of the Republic of Slovenia, given that the backlogs and some other things are rather undefined. We know how the highway cross came to be, what the turbulence was, that, in the last 20 years, standards have changed, standards have also created plans, plans and plans to amend accompanying acts, etc. So it's good to discuss, see where the most crucial things are. You could invariably discuss what bothers me as a highway user, but certainly that marking is very important, and also those crucial points, which do not even have as much connection with this law, are, of course, remote places such as the White Country, not least Kočevsko. Personally, on this occasion, when I have the opportunity to discuss it, it really bothers me what is the connection between Postojna and Illyrian Bistrica. Just last week, when these floods started, I was wondering why this part was so backward. However, it will certainly be necessary to consider the transitional points of the law as well as the other minorities that may trigger any more severe headaches than the ones we have just mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Jerič – will not debate, the victory of the Jelinčič noble – will not debate, Mr. Bogdan Barovic – will not debate, Mr. Miran Györek – will not debate, Marjan Bezjak – will not debate, Tadej Slapnik – will not debate, Alenka Jeraj – will not debate, Mr Jože Tanko – will not debate. Mr. Anton Anderlich, I'm sorry, Mr. Tanko, you weren't there. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Last minute you noticed. Last minute you noticed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u109	Messengers sit on the spot, not that they walk around.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u110	I'm in place, because this hall is a job for us, because we don't have to just sit here, but it's no big deal. See, it is now slowly becoming clear to me that this country needs serious protests and unrest in the public sector as well, in order to be able to adopt a solution that does not mean, in fact, anything but that it is possible to draw attention to certain state-owned companies, from the eyes of the National Assembly, from the control of the National Assembly, from the control of the National Assembly, from the control of the National Assembly, and that it is also possible in some other way to function or act. I think that with such translation, which we can afford in this mandate, not only in the field of Darsa, but also in the area of Kad, Sod, Kad and Sod assets, we are not solving any important problems that this country has absolutely no problem with this will be solved or resolved. The obligations remain, the guarantees remain, the loans remain, the construction method will be the way it was, and nothing substantial will change. It will only change to look at what is happening, for everything that is transferred to other institutions is essentially a departure from the eyes of the National Assembly. And given that it is now being transferred to Dars after this law, which was built by the Republic of Slovenia, to a society as a whole, this means that it is also possible to in some way further implement this model, which was discovered in another case by a majority state-owned company. Now, there are a variety of silent partners in silent societies, and when this transfer is made, it is also possible for these silent participants on these projects to come to their true strength and, above all, their security in this area. As regards the national programme for the construction of motorways. The financing concept was adopted at the time of the success story. This was the period before 2004, and at that time those who had the greatest responsibility and also experienced the greatest prosperity, this was the success story, predicted one model, one concept of financing the construction of motorways. If you look closely, it was very clear what are the primary sources of funding for the highway program. I think that this programme, or this programme, has not deviated significantly from the concept adopted by the government at the time of the success story. The change was possible only in this part that, after this rebalancing, following this national programme in 2004, the Government's conclusion was adopted, which envisaged the accelerated construction of certain motorways. This decision has been adopted by the Government. The government that came for this government has realised this decision. Some sections have been accelerated during this period and have also accelerated their accession to it. From this model, from this concept something did not deviate significantly. Unfortunately, the problem is that the funds deliberately collected, which were provided for by one of the laws in those pioneer stages of highway construction, not in this final phase, were not deliberately spent on highway construction; they were not fully spent on highway construction, but on other laws, in particular the law on budget implementation, they also committed themselves to certain other things. To criticize now that this structure is now such, it is from those who have contributed to the fact that these earmarks have not been fully used to build motorways, at least which is non-creditable. For an important part of this additional debt, which has burdened the highway and in some way promoted this intergenerational solidarity, has been linked to the withdrawal, reduction of funds raised and replaced with more expensive credit resources. It's a verifiable figure of how much of it there was. Clearly, then, the burden was transferred to this budget part, to the guarantee part. But the success story financed some other things. By actually trying to change things with some tricks now, just the state, the feeling that things are different, doesn't change anything. There's gonna be that much credit, that's what it's worth. And what the Government is proposing is also whether or not it is primarily a negative part of the success story in this mandate. For if it is written down in the objectives of the law that in some way it is necessary to be careful about Darsa's insolvency so that the state guarantees are not cashed, then it means that policy in this period in the area of highway construction is not successful, it is not good. Indeed, in one part this is also due to the previous model that the national programme has brought. However, this model, which is now being implemented by the Government, does not bring some suitable solutions or good decisions and steps to address these threats in this area. Whatever happens in the area of motorways will be the burden of the Republic of Slovenia, one way or another, the burden of the budget. For all the guarantees, all the guarantees, all the long-term commitments that the National Assembly has accepted, and also the next item on the agenda bring new ones, I think, some 300 million euros of some potential liabilities to the state budget. Many of us have tried to introduce a number of things, which are also written, if not in the basic, but in the complementary part, as a complementary programme for the construction of motorways, into this physical construction project, it is said that it would be introduced, transformed into the NRPs and that it would actually join these projects. There are a lot of problems in this area. I recall that a round table in my congregation was organized a few months ago on this subject for a highway connection, and there was a promise that the Government would take a decision at the next meeting following this public presentation and finalize the route or determine the route of this connection from the G2 to the highway. I think this government meeting should be on May 27th when we decide if I remember correctly. Since then, about 20 government meetings have been held, and the government has not yet decided on this matter. There has not yet been a decision on this connection. And we've been waiting, probably, for this definition since 2004, when we adopted the national highway construction programme. Since 2004! Six years from now, and this promise appears to be moving into the far future. With regard to some of the other measures taken under this mandate, I think they are also weakening the financial potential. First of all, it's a decision to essentially encourage guilt. I think that even the studies that have been produced have talked about the fact that the tide will not increase and that this will cause again some other things, in the area of transport, which will mean something and will not have those expected effects. These studies may not have been fully realized, something has changed in this area, but apparently all this additional inflow, the irritation of vineyards, is essentially covered by the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. All those who, intergenerationally, did not participate in anything but, above all, were transitors, in fact, received an extremely favourable relief. However, those who will pay and pay for this inter-generational solidarity, and who also use these motorways, have increased our contribution by 100%. As far as excise measures are concerned, they mean certain lower revenues, as the increase in excise duty also results in an outflow to other pumps, to pumps in other countries, especially those that use our roads for transit. Here, mainly due to fuel prices, there has also been a significant reduction in inflows or expected inflows to the state budget. One of the problems with lower revenues, lower inflows to the budget is also an inadequate excise policy. We should probably allow at least those who travel through Slovenia or through Slovenia to spend as much as possible, if they are already here, here. However, with a measure of high excise duty and higher fuel prices than in most neighbouring countries, this matter has in fact been directed in a different way. I don't think that for this change in the Dars law that we have ahead of us, there's enough analysis of what it's going to bring or what it's going to bring. This accompanying material is probably not sufficient to determine whether the solutions provided by this law are appropriate or not. This review of the funds and so on, which is done, does not in fact constitute much of an argument for amending this law. Because it's probably by just transferring ownership or ownership and some other control issues; and [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] This does not mean savings or any special appreciation, but it essentially means a reduction in the function of control, control and probably a reduction in any debate in the National Assembly. Although the discussions in the National Assembly in which we dealt with these road and motorway matters probably never meant any obstacles or caused any reduced dynamics. On the contrary, many things have opened up in these debates, and every time there are many solutions that have been made by Members in the National Assembly, and what has been added to them. We may not have made any deterioration in this area in the National Assembly. I believe that it is necessary to approach these solutions, which have been taking place recently, when things in many areas withdraw from the competences of the National Assembly, in one way or another, after segments, more quickly, so that this should be looked at in some other way. I think that this is especially good for those who have some special privileged positions in this area, but for those who want to work in a transparent public system, this is probably not a suitable step and a proper process. Regrettably, in this mandate, or in this mandate, transferred from the jurisdiction of the National Assembly a number of things that are in Kad, in the Court of Justice, and Dars is likely to be transferred somewhere through those laws that we have already dealt with in the National Assembly, and is now given some property in this area, so that he will not go without a dome in this far-off matter, away from the eyes of the public and the National Assembly and so on. In short, this mandate does not work in such a way as to increase transparency and transparency in the preparation of public property, but rather to adopt solutions that are diametrically of this, on the contrary, diametrically opposite solutions. If you look at some of the laws we've had, and some of those that have changed the powers of the National Assembly, because we've also accepted it, then it's clear that this transparency with these laws is lost, is now lost at Dars, is lost at Kadu, is lost at the Court, is lost at the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests and so on. In short, wherever public property is concerned, these powers of the National Assembly are suspended in this mandate. This says a lot about the ambitions of the government, the government coalition, as it imagines management of public property. This step ahead of us is only in the context of all the changes we have already adopted in this mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Patrick Wlačič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u112	Thank you, Chairman. There's some content coming up, and I'm gonna drop by, maybe say a few words. I will not be able to respond to all such round circuits, because the debate on very different content also relates, and you will forgive me, I hope. First, why there are no more legal provisions already mentioned in the introduction in this new Dars Act. Basically, the Dars Act would not actually be necessary, we have the Company Act, which could establish an economic company with the tasks we give to Dars. Well, basically the Dars Act is not necessary at all. We need the Dars Act for other reasons, not in fact because it would say that the director or the president of the administration is elected by the government or anything previously mentioned in the debate, because it is totally unnecessary in one ordinary economic society, or how many members are considered by the supervisory committee, and which members of the supervisory committee are proposed by one ministry, such as my ministry, the Ministry of Transport, and the Ministry of Finance, alike. So these provisions are something special that is surviving and that is not included in the Dars law and that is why we have deleted them. In addition, we have set up a new agency, an agency called the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. And the management of what once happened through the government will follow a new path through this agency. We did not just do this because we felt that it was not necessary for the government to withdraw from this area because it was managing the function of the Assembly, but perhaps this was not the most appropriate, because it was elected by the Director or the President of the Administration, but mainly because we became a member of the OECD, in which some established criteria apply, how this is done in a world that knows companies much longer than our country, and which has built standards and criteria at that time, in fact, in the countries of these things. And in cases of good practice, we have also set up an agency in our country to carry out these functions, which the government has previously performed, and therefore there is no need for these legal provisions to be in the Dars Act itself. Now, as far as the budget and the funds are concerned. Resources in the budget are virtually no longer available for Dars' tasks since 2004. As early as 2004, the government proposed these changes and mainly channelled these funds onto state roads, at least in a way that is understood, the decision does not seem to be bad, but now it needs to be brought into the legal framework. Since those funds, which were essentially intended from the gas toll at the time, slowly melted into integral assets, they were transferred to the economy by Dars and then slowly started to cool off. This is now being regulated because some situation that has not even been in compliance with the legal order regarding Dars' funding since 2004 has to be regulated, and this is what we are now doing with this bill, with this proposal. And there are also funds that are precisely listed in the budget for tasks that Dars should also perform in this law. Here we go, say, putting it in a room, it's about buying up land and stuff. Now, as far as the concession is concerned. If they made a mistake here, I'd be worried too about granting concessions for new sections. There is certainly a need to make a system here that will legally abstain, but according to our estimates – I think we are not wrong, if we are, then we need to change – we can grant this concession to a company that is 100% state-owned under the so-called 'and-house'. Otherwise, we might have problems. Given the debate on whether Dars will be a monopoly in the management of Slovenian motorways, the answer is yes, because Dars has been a monopoly all the time and will continue to be a monopoly in the management of motorways and fast roads with us. The point of the concession is to give someone who has a monopoly position to do it alone, unless you have more concessionaires, and that's how you sort it out. So this is actually a valid monopoly and as such it is also in accordance with European Union rules. As regards the Interoperability Directive, these provisions do not fall under the Dars Act because it is of a legal nature. You correctly note that these matters need to be regulated and these provisions will be included in the tolling law and will also be recorded in these provisions. In view of the claims that we do not have a national programme, we have a national programme. It was adopted by the National Assembly, and we also have an additional national programme. And after these two national programmes, or through the national and additional programmes, we are also doing the tasks entrusted by the National Assembly, but it is true that we are preparing a novelty or changes to the national programme, especially because the additional national programme is not as precise as the national programme for the construction of motorways; it is not about funding sources and the like, and these things will also need to be defined in the new national programme. But it is not true that we do not have a national programme, of course we do. A lot of Members have talked about whether this law is needed at all and what are the essential changes. First of all, this law is needed for a number of reasons. One of the very important things that may not seem so important at first sight is, however, because it looks just like an accounting operation, is actually the arrangement that Dars has so far had resources in management, and now these assets will no longer be in management, because this accounting standard is no longer available. And we need to work this out. We were also warned by the Court of Auditors. We are aware of these tasks, of course, we are also fulfilling them. But perhaps a more important question than what is really possible only at first sight of accounting nature is the issue of State guarantees. And whether it is really just as it was said earlier, it is just some more cosmetic things or not such an important difference that there is no significant difference between one and the other. When we were preparing this regulation, we were faced with an important decision whether to withdraw State guarantees from this project and whether in this way to secure what is some kind of public debt, which is potentially not to become an explicit state debt. All of you remember when we entered the European Union, Eurostat, the European Commission and all the competent authorities agreed to this, accepted this interpretation of the Republic of Slovenia, that this is a debt of the company, because the company rented the loans and because the company repays these loans. With regard to these guarantees, we could approach the withdrawal of guarantees, but this would be very expensive. The withdrawal of guarantees would be costly, so we decided to sit down where we would provide a system that would be so sustainable from Dars’ economic company with these changes and with a future and different approach to construction and credit that there will never be a redemption of these guarantees. And that, of course, is important. Now I found, "we're trying to change things with tricks," was said. Of course, we do not listen with tricks to change things — but why is it so important that these changes are recorded? For one simple reason, since this debt, which is now Darsa's debt, would have become a country debt, this would have been a changed country credit rating, this would have meant changed circumstances for borrowing loans in the financial market. And of course, these are actually measurable figures that go into decimals, if not even 100 million euros because of increased interest due to a reduction in the country's creditworthiness. So if these decisions may seem to be at first sight irrelevant, they are very important so that the country can continue to maintain the ratings it has so far. About the fear that the highway could be in the hands of someone else or whatever. The law explicitly states the prohibition and the burden of highways. Nor shall they be subject to bankruptcy, nor shall they be subject to enforcement. No tax debt, no tax debt, no decision. The process is ongoing, but we must not comment on it as long as it is ongoing, but there is no tax debt decision. Now with regard to non-intentionally spent resources, this is an important and relevant debate, but this inadvertentity must be seen in terms of two types of non-intention: one is, if something was actually built, it should not be, and the other is that it is inadvertent in the sense that it does not belong to the motorway programme. It's important to know that Dars is cleaning up his building balance now. We've talked about this a lot. If, for example, I am concrete because of the requirements of a water protection nature, Dars has built certain water protection facilities which are not of a nature such that they are in the management of Darsa and need to be transferred to someone else, and this is also true for the maintenance of these water protection facilities. Let's say it's just one case. And these balances need to be cleared and, of course, we will also be able to expose every object, every road, every circle, everything that has been built, everything that has been done through Dars throughout this time, to the public, and these balances need to be cleared and cleared. But if there was anything that should not have been built at all, then the responsibility for the return will also have to be looked at and looked at why these things were being built. I have no problem to look at all the buildings Dars has built in all these years, from 1994 to 2010. Now, with regard to – I don't know if the chairman will let me, because some things have been said that are not directly related to Darsa, and maybe I can answer or not the subject of the debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u113	If they're related to the content of the law, they can.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u114	In fact, they are not directly related to the content of the law, but they were said here in the National Assembly, so I ask. Thank you very much. Now, with regard to the influx of vignettes, i.e. vignettes, they are, of course, indirectly linked to Darsa, to the sustainability of the programmes, but they are not directly part of this law, so I called on the president to say something about it. There's two things to say. Perhaps it is not important that Dars' debt has increased dramatically from 2004 to 2008, so instead of the planned 400 million, 500 million, I apologize, a little less, we owe Dars more than 2 billion. So let's leave the judgment of value, whether it's right or wrong. It was an accelerated construction, a decision taken and legitimate in this respect because it was accepted by the designated authorities. However, it is an important event with regard to the financing of this debt resulting from this increased financing of the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. When this increased debt occurred during these years, of course, there was also a need to repay those debts during this period. And by the time the need for repayment of debts arose, the system was vignetted, as I would say, to pour gasoline on what was almost in the fire; this is the sustainability of highway programs. That is why we had to approach the promotion of vineyards and ensure, and we can also prove this by numbers, so much more inflow that at least in the basic dimensions we can ensure sustainability, and yet there will be a need to refinance credits.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u116	Your Honor! At the outset, I expressed my support for the law on behalf of the Member State Club and we will also support it. It is true, however, that we could talk even more about what Mr Tanko has been saying all day. There is no need, for we have an investigative commission that will certainly dispel the suspicions raised by those who said that an investigative commission should be made because taxpayers paid 2 billion euros too much for built roads. So this is not a relevant discussion at the moment. However, there is still a need to correct Mr Tank's misstatements, and the Minister has not been precise enough. It should be said that the system of financing the construction of motorways has changed during the 2004-2008 mandate. For the first time, because they have ceased to allocate funds from the budget, collected under the law for the purpose of the construction of motorways. This law, I believe, is still in force to collect money from this title, and later in 2009 and 2010 it did not come back into the budget because other problems have arisen. On several occasions, I have argued with Mr Financial Minister Bajuk in the previous term on whether it is right to replace these funds with loans guaranteed by the State and to go to credits. Because at the time, it was a thesis that loans were so cheap that it would be stupid if we didn't take credit and get in debt. Of course, they must be returned, and the consequences appear here. That's the first problem. Another problem is blame and collect tolls and charge other things through this. This system, which was previously fled, rather than being upgraded and collected more from this title, has been reduced, as we all know. The Minister correctly said how much more we owed from this address. As far as the things in this proposal are concerned, he has explained something but still needs to be given. I hope the Minister will have a chance to get to the floor in time. In fact, when you say on page 5 that 539 kilometers of highways and 34 fast or fast connecting roads were estimated at 5.4 billion. I don't understand why you don't update the data, because since then, since 2009, there have been at least 14 whole and so many kilometers of new highways, and you have since 2009, and you have 344 kilometers of highways built. The data is not accurate. Because if you look at it, we've already spent EUR 5.3 billion on the highway for 344 kilometers, in your opinion. Finally, on the same side, you say that it will only take €2.6 billion to build a poor 200km. I would like to hear on what basis this is actually calculated. It is also probably necessary to clarify whether this table, these comparisons and these forecasts, are likely to cost us, based on the prices of built motorways and all connecting roads, whether these are now new prices, given that the construction situation has changed and seems to be lower prices. I don't know if highways will be cheaper, but they're pretty obvious in construction. Here are some of these things we'd need for a good show. I don't know if he's going to hold on to Article 11, and I don't see how much sense it would make for Dars to be the only one who doesn't have to go by the authority of the Securities Market Agency to issue debt securities. There is no logic, no need for Dars to be different, in a different position than others who issue debt securities. Article 24 nevertheless raises the question from a legal and legal point of view – I believe that the Legal and Legal Service will also say something about it. You'll be the one to testify. 1. 2010 all after the new and the law will be adopted in November or December of the month. This is, in my opinion, a retroactive provision, and you probably won't be able to do it this way, but, as I say, it will have to be explained that no one would later say it isn't. [[...]] As far as non-intention is concerned, I do not agree in this part with the Minister that it is a matter of restraints, of regulating windshields and so on along highways for purposeless use. It's just an integral part, because otherwise the road couldn't be there. It probably isn't meant to be what someone was talking about here about chapels and other things and so on, and that's probably what it is. What is part of the highway is also that it is counted, but it is not, for example, the destruction of state and municipal roads in the construction of motorways. We have problems in Slovenia, and these are serious problems in some areas, because constructionists have destroyed roads, states, municipalities and some places they do not want to hear them being cured. This is not pointless, for already in the basic contract, if you want, with the national programme itself and the definition of Dars as such, he says that he must leave behind as it was before he went to build. For otherwise it is the work of Sisyphus, that you build the highway on one side, and destroy the roads of the state, and then either the state budget or anyone else, the congregation, to heal them. This is the cost that must go into the account of the one who, of course, destroyed this road because he needed it for what he built.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I would like to stress the proposal to introduce additional security guards and provisions for the control and transparency of Darsa's operation until the second reading, and to maintain the control of the country in order not to imply this provision in the future of the privatisation of motorways, or to avoid our motorway coming into foreign hands. I would like to draw particular attention to the fear of not entering any kind of "as" strategic partner. Now that we have built most of the motorways with torture and effort alone, it would be very wrong to leave the possibility of some public-private partnership with foreigners raising toll levels to annoy their use, and this should not be the aim of this policy. For what new constructions I'd like to leave an option, but for built highways there's no way. I therefore wonder whether we are going to sell everything to achieve our objectives. That's not good. The Slovenian People's Party here won't cooperate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Peter Verlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you very much. First of all, I thank you for these explanations to the Minister, as far as the Darce Act itself is concerned. Indeed, then the question arises whether the Dars law, as far as the status regime is concerned, is necessary, after what you have explained, in fact, we could have done without it. The second thing that you have then identified as important is either this solution or how to get out of the fact that guarantees for loans or that credits that Dars has rented and are secured by state guarantees would not go into public debt. This is the second part of the law, which is why this proposal is at first reading. Now I'm wondering if he's even needed in this work. Actually, Dars has been solving the loan situation so far, and credits have already been coming back, so no state guarantee has been cashed. Thus, Dars is already in this status form, obviously capable of resolving and repaying credits, despite all the concerns and questions that have arisen here. That's why I don't think anything would have to be changed. Which is what the provisions are – and here is a warning from a fellow Member who spoke before me, that space is also given to other concessionaires, space is given. By the way, you said that there was obviously some kind of monopoly, where Dars would be the first to be among the selected concessionaires, or the first to be able to build if I understood whether he had a monopoly, but there was a possibility in the law that he would not. The new concessionaires will also be able to perform if the government so decides. At least that is what the bill says; it is said that new concessionaires can be expected. However, what remains open and which I have also drawn attention to in the position of the Group of Members, I have not received an answer, and a very precise Article 5 of this bill, which speaks of a national programme, is written. Now this is what it says about the future, which says that this company will do in the future, because it also has to do with how it will be able to manage the loans. We already know about the painting around the back, and the law also tells us how long it is and how it will be repaid in the future, but now we have these new questions, which we do not have an answer to today, because there is no national programme – except that that exists, but there is no new one. A new one who will tell what will be built in the future, and who will — since the apparently annual plan that has always been discussed in the National Assembly — has to be very precise. It will have to, as stated in the law, and we support this, because it is good that it will be specified which sections will be built, which sections will be the starting point, the final point, i.e. section A to B, the timetable and even the means of construction. We're absolutely in favour. But it would be good if, let's say, a second treatment, because I can see that this will is obviously great, that the law goes forward to get a national programme. This would make it much easier to discuss this second part — how Dars would then be able to continue paying off all these debts. It's too bad this didn't come at the same time, because then it would be easier to talk about it. However, I think that Dars could, in this existing form, because the sources of funding remain the same, the resources remain the same as they are, and the debts remain and the guarantees remain. And if not in the new form of Dars, as a normal concessionaire, will be able to repay the debt, then there will be a problem, of course, even for the day of the guarantee. We also have a problem now in the National Assembly because there is no national programme. Sorry, that's a fact! And then these questions that are opening up around the development axis, the third development axis, the fourth and third A. What's going to happen now? Who will; will this thing build a concessionaire, Dars? If it is, then it will probably be possible, given that the sources of the toll are likely to be tolled, then it will probably have to be tolled. I don't know how this road across the White Country is gonna turn into a toll road. Well, if they're guilty, it'll be a little easier, but if they're expensive tolls, the question is. We are always faced with this here, obviously we cannot avoid vignettes in this debate, like those who have broken the debt, but we are looking very narrowly here, but we are not looking more wide-ranging. If we looked at it wider, we wouldn't get quite a lot of benefits on the account of imported vignettes. Unless otherwise, at least where the highways have released traffic, because today's data is visible. I was very pleasantly surprised when I once read an article where the president of the Darsa administration said that the blame actually reached a certain goal. And they did! Surely, in the summertime, we know this very well, all those who drive on highways. I also said a lot of times that maybe there would be a time, given that we haven't withdrawn the houses, when we should try to bring back the toll back on this sea leg at least over the summer to remember all these columns and the mystery we had. However, in order to achieve such debt and a picture of debt and then resolution of solvency and repayment of credits, it is true; it was a decision — I remember, before the 2004 elections — that the government robbed the government of the conclusion that the city highway was being built up faster, faster than it had been in the national programme. Nothing wrong, okay! Good. Well, that's what the minister said. We went to an accelerated construction. There was no one in the National Assembly, and if the new government then said that it was going back to cancel this decision of the government, today we would have at least one MP – Mr. Kampush, who was very active at the time, to build the highway and have to be built and built! [[...]] As other sections are now expected, but these sections are part of a national programme that is not. I think the law would be easier to deal with today if we had this one, too, I'll say on a railway schedule. How's it going to go? Then it would be clearer to see a picture of how this problem of repayment of credits will also be resolved. Now there is also this question, probably little to it whether the government has a plan besides Dars to grant a concession to build for someone else. The law will allow it, and that's probably interesting then. It is likely that the highway, if obtained by another concessionaire, will be owned by this concessionaire if the analogy with the law is used – or if another right will be applied. These are the issues that are on the ground and then we really ask ourselves if everything is already well defined in the second legislation, now as regards the status provisions, then in fact only the existing law could cease to apply and any other system law could be spoken. After all, we have the Law on Public-Private Partnerships, you said that the law governing companies could also, and Dars could, if he had enough resources, also repay loans, as he has done so far. Of course, let's never even think about this other side, so that it can probably also be done through internal measures, with internal rationalisation, to save and pay off a lot of euro. We haven't talked about this much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber won't discuss it. All the debaters you wanted got your word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm giving you time to report. [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. Secretary, I'll tell you. Mr. Minister, if you want to discuss this, you will raise your hand. Now or later? Later. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u122	I'd like to make some explanation so I can discuss it, but apparently the minister has made a different decision. Mr Verlič, but you do not have to interfere with the decision to build roads faster and to raise costs or debts from this title. However, to withdraw funds from the budget and replace them with credit, a decision has been taken and since 2006 the euro has no longer been for this purpose. But it's still the legal code by which this money is collected. That's the point, that's all. [[You don't have a replica because you didn't sign in. You'll tell me later, you'll just check in. I'm the one who explained your misrepresentation. There are no replicas to the replica anyway.]] Your wrong statement is that all of this has been put on the side of the loans and liabilities due to the decision of the Robbery Government. And I said before you that this happened because of the increased volume, for sure, and because of the change in the method of funding – the withdrawal of money from the budget, which was deliberately collected for the construction of motorways. That's all. That's why I signed up.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, you have appointed me [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u125	Mr Verlich, I am reminded that there is no replica in this part of the debate. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u126	Yes, but now I see that apparently there is no chairman of those main words on the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u127	They shall warn the President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u128	Because you gave me your word. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u129	the co-workers in the assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u130	No, you're being warned by a fellow Member, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u131	Not [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u132	Okay, okay, I get it. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. I hope you and your colleagues have agreed, even though I understood what your fellow Member, Dr. Peter Verlic, was going to say, it would also be good if I could explain. He'll probably have that option in the future. Otherwise, the minister is probably going to say something else, and he's going to have some more time. Something I heard from the debate and what the Minister of Transport himself said, if I understood correctly that this law, which contains 26 or 27 short articles, would not be necessary at all. And I also wonder whether it is really necessary or not, and if it is necessary, why it is necessary, if I first find out when the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the bill is justified. So it must be and I do not agree with the Minister then telling the National Assembly that the bill should not be sent to the National Assembly at all. But something else bothers me. Slovenia is also becoming quite unique in the construction of the highway cross. And as in the past, I have a feeling that he also wants to end this success story, in narrations, the construction of highways in the Republic of Slovenia. I am not sure – many have dealt with calculations, with the totals of how much Republic of Slovenia has invested in the construction of motorways – but I believe that much too much. This was also confirmed by the experts involved in the calculations. What clearly confirms me in this thinking is the situation on Slovenian highways. These are young roads, and today go across the entire highway in the Republic of Slovenia - there are holes everywhere! There's something going on everywhere except, of course, when you replace some equipment in tunnels or something like that, it's an exception. But directly on the roadways, in the middle, repellent fences; all of this should serve its purpose for a few more years, but it is already thoroughly interfering with the reconstruction or replacement of individual parts. It is true that each thing has its own life span, but given the amounts we have dedicated to the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, all of this should last for a while. However, it is interesting to compare the explanations of the applicant, which also summarizes how these other countries have their own arrangements. It is very interesting to compare with our neighbours Croatians. They did it in a different way. They may have managed to build this in a time frame earlier on the basis of quality, but things are substantially different from those in Slovenia. I must say that I like their model of road construction, at least personally, much more than the model that we have chosen. Certainly, the Republic of Croatia will not spend as much money on motorways as the Republic of Slovenia has in common if we count it all together. And there's something else you need to say. If we looked at the model of Western countries, we could find that they started there much earlier in the same way as in Slovenia in 1993, but allowed the possibility of a partnership. Today, however, when we say that the market is open, we are closing – we are closing this law. There is no open competition on the market. This is where we close things down and favor Dars as the only one who gets concessions in the future. That's not right. And I want us to relax here, too, the others who deal with this professionally and professionally, that they will be [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Marinic. Mr. Patrick Vlačič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, because you've just inspired me with a Croatian case, I think you should look at what's good in the outside world and summarize it, maybe not everything. Our neighbours in the Republic of Croatia were extremely effective in spatial placement, possibly somewhat more comparable to us in construction, but they were very lucky because of some configurations in a certain part of their country, which is more easy to build than we are. However, funding faces very similar problems as in the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, the fact that the use of motorways, for example, in Croatia is extremely expensive a kilometer away – you can be sure that those who drove there – and yet the sustainability of the programme is not necessarily very beneficial. Today there was a lot of talk about prices, about the cost of building highways. Although this is only indirectly related to Dars, I would like to mention the study they did abroad, it is not our study. Compared to construction costs, Slovenia is, for example, cheaper than the Czech Republic, cheaper than Hungary, than Germany, Austria and Slovakia. However, it is not cheaper than Croatia and Denmark. Of course, this is influenced by everything from country-specific configurations and the like, but these are prices that have been compared abroad, as far as highway construction prices are concerned. I certainly think the Darce Act is necessary. I may have earlier made it vaguely clear why it is not necessary from the point of view of the legal provisions, but it is necessary from the point of view of the other provisions: it is necessary from the point of view of the concession, it is necessary from the point of view of the tasks that Dars needs, from the point of view of the regulation where the infrastructure should be, it is necessary from the point of view of transitional provisions to regulate things backwards, and it is necessary from the point of view of financing the tasks that the State gives to Dars. Therefore, Dars needs the law very much and we propose it, otherwise we would have no need to burden the National Assembly with this regulation, but there are many things within it that are important for further programmes for the construction of motorways in Slovenia. What Ambassador Anderlič was talking about, about this law, this should be clarified once. If this law still imposes such obligations, then it must be amended because we are changing the way funding is now. Otherwise, I would not like to be in a position to fail to comply with what we are required to do. But basically, let me just say it one more time. The basic intention of this law, however, is to stop financing highways from state money, to make Darsa one company, which may also be able to manage highways anywhere in the world tomorrow, and which will be able to use this knowledge that has accumulated at that time to exploit its business opportunities to make profit from elsewhere, not only from tolls that will find some activity from exploiting its optical infrastructure to exploiting the land that it has available and others, that it will find it as an economic base together with its know-how, so that it can make it easier to finance these programmes that the state of Darsu is charging. Therefore, it is a desire to make this one company, such cases of practice, when companies that have become independent in the market and are now performing an important function, perhaps in other countries, were created from a company that was under State auspices. This is our wish, and let us hope that it will come true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 28 September 2010 in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 21. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE – This is, firstly, a proposal for a law on the consent and growth of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars, D.D., from credits and issued debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme for the Construction of Autocest in the Republic of Slovenia amounting to EUR 297,811 million – within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 17 Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the law. Mr. Patrick Vlačič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you again, chairman. The proposal for a law governs the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations under the common debt of EUR 297 million 811 thousand. The purpose of the tasks is to realize the construction of sections and other investments set out in the annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways for the current year. So, why are these new assignments necessary? For motorway sections with changes in financial structures, this is about EUR 35 million, the reason for the increase in investment values at the section Razdrto-Vipava, Rebrnice, then the Peračica-Subtubor, then Pluska-Ponikve, Dražci-Gruškovje, Sub-section of the border crossing of Gruškov, the state border. It is difficult in geological and geomechanical conditions, for example in Rebrnica and the international border crossing of Gruškov, changes in the prices of steel on the market during the period from the design assessment to the submission of works – Peračica-Subtubor – and difficulties in providing the necessary real estate and related additional costs and delays in the construction of Pluska-Ponikve, the international border crossing of Gruškov, the state border. Other investments set out in the 2010 annual road development and renewal plan amounting to slightly less than €263 million. It is an electronic road toll system in free circulation, the renewal of the motorway network, construction and electrical works, the preparation of spatial documentation for sections from the additional national road construction programme, the preparation of spatial and other documentation for other sections and investments, the rehabilitation of state roads, the implementation of measures, in accordance with the operational plan for the resolution of noise congestion, the regulation of the control of drainage, the compensation for the execution of the contract, the redesign of the area of the closed international border crossings within the motorways, the implementation of activities under international projects and programmes and the final works at sections 1994 to 2007. Dars d.d. will be able to rent credits or issue debt securities under the following conditions: that funds may be drawn up in multiple instalments by the end of 2013, that the payment period is not more than 25 years from the date of the conclusion of the individual credit agreement or the issuance of the debt securities; then that the cost of the application and issuance of the VPs does not exceed 0.4 value of the issue; all the costs associated with the borrowing of the credit shall not exceed 0.2 % of the value of the principal of the individual credit; the interest rate of the credit must be comparable to the interest rates of the loans with the State guarantee. When issuing debt securities, the debt conditions must be comparable to those of comparable sovereign securities. The total investment value of sections and other investments is approximately EUR 796 million. The funds for their funding are provided from own resources, resources already provided for in debt and projected new resources totalling slightly less than EUR 298 million. The funds for repayments of received loans or issued bonds will be provided by Dars. Now, two more words, given that this is the law we are proposing after we had a debate earlier on the new Dars Act. Of course, this is still the "reflex" of the old system to ensure those programs that are running and where the tasks of the old system are, we expect that still needs to be ensured, because it is within the rounded whole, the way it has been so far. Only a new Dars law, new projects under the new Dars law will be set up and can be such that the state will no longer provide guarantees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u140	Mr President, Minister, representatives of Darsa, colleague, colleague. In the National Road Construction Programme in the Republic of Slovenia, the Republic of Slovenia has expressed its intention to build a motorway network, allowing for adequate internalities, in particular the inter-regional integration of the country and its appropriate integration into international road traffic flows. The proposed law provides the means to implement the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and the annual plans for the development and renewal of motorways. The annual development and renewal plan for 2010 provides additional sources of credit or debt securities. The bill allows a total debt of EUR 297 million to be incurred by the end of 2013. The bill gives consent and guarantees for Dars' liabilities on loans or issuing debt securities up to a total amount, as I said, of EUR 297 million, thereby allowing timely provision of funds to enable public tendering for works on motorways and for other investments. As the Minister has already explained in the introduction, agreement should be given on account of motorway sections where there has been a change in the financial structures totalling around 35 million and other investments set out in the 2010 Annual Plan for the Development and Restoration of Motorways. As already mentioned, the funds will be provided by Dars from the concession fee. We will support the bill in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr. Peter Verlic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the Law on Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for Dars liabilities of EUR 297 million is not suitable for further consideration. Let me explain. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we see no problem in providing guarantees and debt, as it is the construction of infrastructure facilities. We support this and we regret that this government and this ministry of transport have not taken any more radical measures in this area in two years. In fact, when there is a crisis, it would be wise to be in charge of smart things and the construction of roads is certainly a very smart good. But when we saw the table in the explanations of the law, what to do and what to do with the guarantee, we decided not to support the marriage. In fact, half of the funds, i.e. around EUR 153 million, are supposed to be an electronic toll system in the free movement of transport. This number is actually written very precisely, EUR 153 million 171 thousand. We wonder if the invitation to tender has already been established and a well-known tenderer that the numbers are so precise. Why is such a rush, in fact, when we know that the interoperability of European toll systems is still unclear and has not yet been established? It will be much cheaper for Slovenia when tolls are introduced by neighbouring countries, Italy, Austria, Germany, the Czech Republic, Croatia not least. It is true, however, that in this case, due to uniform tenders, due to clear interoperability, due to a clear way, the process of service of tolls that would be interoperable, it is said that this toll service would run in order to pay tolls when passing through different countries would be smaller, cheaper, more favourable, because it would prepare more countries, if not at the level of the European Union as a whole. We believe that this instant toll system in Slovenia works without problems. Don't talk about incontinence vinjet. If Dars behaved economically, we believe that effective public procurement could save at least 100 million a year, which could be allocated to the payment of credits, without being built in this moment by the most important motorway section between Drazenci and Gruškov. Why it is not a task to prepare the documentation and as soon as possible not to say speeding up the documentation on this motorway section and on the third development axis and on the motorway sections between Postojna and Jelsani or to complete the motorways between Kopro and Dragoja and Jagod and Lucija and Piran as quickly as possible. We propose that the Government amends the law and devotes EUR 150 million to the priority construction of these sections and not to tolling. This can wait a few years.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the purpose of the law, as it would be worst to stop the planned investments. It is necessary to continue work and it is therefore necessary to allow for the timely provision of all necessary resources, which are a prerequisite for the completion of the construction of the motorway sections of Razdrto-Vipava-Rebnice, Peracica-Podtabor, Beach-Hrastje, Pluska-Ponikve, Slivnica-Gruškovje, Dražci-Gruškovje, the international border crossing of Gruškovje, the border with the Republic of Croatia, and the resources for other investments set out in the annual plan for the development and renewal of motorways for 2010. Construction of motorways is certainly one of the more important projects that are nearing the end, which was the start of the Slovenian economy and the link between Slovenia and the world, in particular the elimination of traffic congestion and better integration of all parts of Slovenia. In the Slovenian People's Party, we call again and again for the regulation of connecting roads and the regulation of state roads. Dars was performing an important task on behalf of the state. The bill gives consent and guarantees for the obligation of Dars, a shareholder company, to issue loans or debt securities up to a total amount of EUR 297,811 million by the end of 2013. For various reasons, there have been changes in financial structures at some sections due to the characteristics of the building site, the purchase of land and the like. This will enable the drawing-up of credits and completion of planned projects. In the parliamentary group, we believe that it would be most expensive for the country if the projects were not completed, so let us support the law. At the same time, we reiterate what we have warned in the adoption of budgets that the Government must also look for other ways and not just to be in charge of making investments. We will also closely monitor the business and implementation of Darsa by members of the Slovenian People's Party and the implementation of the proposed investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and distinguished representatives of Darsa! The Government has set out the text of the proposal for a law on the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for Dars obligations, amounting to EUR 297,811 million. The adoption of this law is also the basis for the adoption and implementation of the 2010 Annual Plan for the Development and Renewal of Motorways, and the two acts are therefore interdependent. Let me begin by saying that the DeSUS Group will give its consent or support to this law. The main reason for our support is that our Group will not be one of those that would hinder the smooth implementation of both the national highway construction programme in our country and the annual plans for the development and renewal of motorways. We believe that the road combination is essential both economically and socially. In order to finance the implementation of the basic programme of the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, which is approaching the final stage, Dars rented loans for which the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia was issued. Dars' credits are on the 31st. 12. 2009 amounted to around €2.9 billion in long-term loans and €62.9 million in short-term loans. These loans, of course, leave a potential public debt. Despite our support for this bill, which will increase the Republic of Slovenia's liability guarantee by EUR 300 million, we believe that a stable source of funding should be provided for the construction of motorways. We do not consider the State guarantee to be a stable source of funding, but not at a time of financial instability, since there is so much greater likelihood that the payment of this amount will soon be passed on to taxpayers, so that Dars will not be able to repay these loans, which will therefore also undermine motorway construction projects. Undoubtedly, a more stable source would be Europe's non-refundable resources. Of course, if this law were to be enforced and the state would not provide a guarantee, Dars would otherwise be able to obtain loans, but only on a significantly higher interest rate or on stricter and more expensive terms. Therefore, the DeSUS Members will support the draft law in order to ensure the continuation of the construction of motorways. However, I must express in this place the surprise that we are today adopting two laws in the field of Darsa, which, according to our opinion, oppose each other. The first regulates the transfer of financing for construction and the restoration of motorways to the private sector, and Dars is expected to be qualified for the effective implementation of the concession and for the repayment of the credits he has leased for this purpose, while limiting the possibility that state guarantees will be cashed out due to Dars' insolvency. And the second law gives Dars a new state guarantee. In this area, according to our assessment, the competent ministry has taken care of the confusion, whether intentionally or unintentionally. Otherwise, the fact that Dars finished his first half of this year with a positive business outcome at least a little comforts us in the Dessus Group. The company's revenue and expenditure were higher by 32% and 34% compared to the same period last year, while also higher than planned in the 2010 Annual Plan. Nevertheless, we are concerned about the information circulating through Slovenian media that Dars Tax Administration should owe more than 100 million euros of unpaid value added tax. Yes, you have correctly heard, more than 100 million Euros of unpaid value added tax. If this information is true, then this will be a very interesting topic when considering the 2011 budget, given that the government wants to freeze pensions as well. Let us recall, however, that the Court of Auditors, in last year's audit of the feasibility of implementing and financing the motorway construction programme, found that Dars owed the country around EUR 250 million because it did not extradite motorways built and therefore did not account for the exit VAT in construction. The Court of Auditors pointed out this to the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which has therefore introduced a tax review. Unpaid VAT covers almost total revenue from Darsa, which amounted to €270 million last year. At the same time, it represents a large part of this year's highway programme, which Dars will need about half a billion euros to implement. For all of this, we will support this bill in the DeSUS Group, as has already been said, with a heavy heart. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! With the proposed Law on Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars, d.d., from loans and issued debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, we will give consent and guarantee for loans of EUR 297 million. The fact is that the timely realization of the construction of motorway sections and related projects and investments under the annual development and renewal plan requires additional funds and resources, unfortunately again from the borrowing of credits. In explanation of the proposal, the proposer, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, provides for the way in which funds are drawn up, the deadline for repayments, associated costs, their amount, interest rates, investment amounts of motorway sections, other investments and so on. Dars and DDC are the largest recipients of state guarantees. Only in Dars is the state of guarantees so far for the company's debts of around EUR 2.2 billion. I've been talking about Darsa's mutual debts at the previous point, that's the Dars Act. As we know, only last year Dars increased his debts by more than 150 million euros. Even so, the Republic of Slovenia is quite generous in providing guarantees to the largest recipients, such as SID Banka, Slovenian Compensation Society, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, Slovenian Universities, the Regional Development Fund, power plants and so on, not to mention any more. And we are not talking about the recently adopted State Guarantee Act to ensure financial stability in the euro area. In short, taking into account the current indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia and the possible release of any major guarantee amounts, the layman may already find that we will not be much short of the Greek situation. It is also interesting to note that most of the guarantees are intended for transport and storage, and for Dars and Slovenian Railways, which I have discussed and pointed out in the consideration of the preceding item, this is the proposal for the Dars Act. We have also recently confirmed the 300 million euro guarantee law for the Court's obligations and we are not talking about banks as applicants and recipients of state guarantees at all. In the Slovenian National Party, we drew attention to Dars' debt and the risk of bail already four years ago, in 2006, when members of the then National Assembly approved Darsa more than a billion euros in debt and confirmed the guarantee. And only in the Slovenian National Party and in the then opposition LDS did we vote against, but the other parties supported or abstained from voting, as was the case with the Social Democrats. Even then, our Group Members warned that Dars would not be able to repay the loans. And even today, in the Slovenian National Party, we claim that it is not guaranteed that Dars will be able to repay his own loans, neither by collecting tolls, nor by any rationalisation of various services at Dars. Although our Members do not oppose faster construction of motorway sections, they should also use other sources of funding, such as EU cohesion funds and so on. There's more to come. Otherwise, giving credit to Dars is a constant practice, and Dars is always borrowing money from the state and will succeed in such a composition of the National Assembly this time. But we all know that sooner or later the state will have to settle debts, and this from the budget, that is, on the shoulders of Slovenes and Slovenians, with higher tolls, with higher taxes, and what I know where they will draw money from. To conclude, in view of the fact that sovereign debt already exceeds the sustainable acceptable GDP limit. They're already strong over a fifth of GDP. In short, we will not support this bill in accordance with the National Party of the Republic of Slovenia's Group of Members, and we believe it is not appropriate for further consideration. A proposal, just to conclude, we propose to the Minister [[He's here. I'm sorry.]] That he goes to Dars and DDC a little more, he does thorough control, because the money is being spent uncontrolledly. And it is time to stop this begging for money and guarantees in the National Assembly. In general, let the Minister-General tell me when the state will finally repay the claims against the inhabitants of Beltini and others in Prekmurje, who have suffered material damage because of the fact that I say road policy when residents of Beltinci and some other settlements have suffered and suffered material damage, and from nowhere. And now they're left to themselves by hiring lawyers, which also costs, and what's even more nonsense, what you do to get some and some don't get. This brings unrest and mistrust into this way of working, into this government and not least in us, because people blame us at times for everything that is wrong. But once it's over, it's not the last time it stops, and I hope it does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u149	Thank you. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u150	Your Honor! Members of the Liberal Democracy will support the law, because it is a way that has been established, and so on without it, the matter would have been stopped, as they claim. That is why we do not have much choice, but it is good to hear that this is the last time in the National Assembly that we approve of guarantees in this way and that, of course, everything will be different and more transparent later on. But something is true, in explanation it somehow bothers whether it is actually possible to explain it better or not, but to rent credit for certain sections that have been dedicated to purpose for a year or more. One might understand that not all costs are paid from this title, not by operators, subcontractors and others involved. So, I believe that it's paid and that they're now paying off or refinance the loans that paid off or whatever. Otherwise it is impossible to understand, say, the Crushed or the Pluses and so on, because if so, then the situation is severe. There is already a lot of public debate every day that subcontractors, subcontractors, do not get paid mainly in the construction industry and so on. I believe that this is not the case, but it should be clarified that this is the way in which you finance from one title, because it lists a whole range of activities that will be financed from this title by this money, if Dars owes himself, but in this part it is quite imprudent. Perhaps it would be even better to simply say that Dars is in charge of so much and so much for planning, construction, maintenance and so on, and this credit will be drawn up by then and then and will be returned in this period as stated. And it would be over. But if this is defined in this way, there may be misunderstandings in public. I would like for the public to make it clear that this is a matter of things that are currently being arranged. It is true that the investment values were different and were not pre-planned at this level, but were probably provided from other sources in order to pay back the claims made to Darsa by all those who carried out the works. As we say, we will support the proposal and believe that this guarantee will fall to fertile ground.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Trofenik, Jurša, Barovic, Saiovic, Kek, Jerič, Žnidaršič, Rožej. Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Hello again! I will support the proposal for a law on the consent and guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars, d.d., and from loans and debt securities issued for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, amounting to EUR 297,811 million. Several issues have already been highlighted in the debate ahead of me. I also have questions on the one hand, but I do not know whether these questions are about providing financial credits, guarantees or what form they are. It seems to me that this government's two-year mandate is too short for all these dilemmas in connection with this debt. If I'm wrong, but I don't think I'm completely wrong, I certainly don't. If we just look at the Plus-Ponikva project, the lower leg of the highway, which also makes me very happy with some of my colleagues from the opposition, because for about 15 minutes a day we have a short drive towards home or towards parliament. And the point is, as colleague Anderlič said before, that he hopes that the payers are paid or that the payments are going smoothly. During a period of time, it was really interpreted in public that they did not, especially subcontractors had quite a few comments, even in the public eye there was much talk about this. Perhaps sometimes too little by Dars was highlighted how things are going, but later, I remember asking myself several times, and then things were also very well-supported and stressed that this is not the case. For me, as an economy, the project is completed then – something is when the technical project is completed and for me, as an economy, the project is completed when it is fully paid. Above all, when the contractor is paid and, on the other hand, who is the contracting authority when he pays in full, he knows that the project or the facility is definitely his. Therefore, in connection with this debate today, I do not resent my colleagues, for example, some from Pomurje, I am also happy when I drove there, how beautiful the highway network is there. However, in this sour apple additional guarantees need to be bitten and I think that even in the favour of Pomour it was so that I cannot believe that there is so much bitterness in connection with this now. In particular, it is essential that Dars, in connection with some other warnings on the prudentness of the business, cooperation and careful use of funds, may also be able to establish which levers, since it is probably not fully controlled on some sides of the matter, so that there are no further doubts from colleagues, at least so I have seen, and obviously those who are not in the coalition, so it is possible from the past. Therefore, I also propose that, given that the period of crisis, that it be done as carefully as possible here and that any leverage may be put in place in this regard, and that it may also be possible to do so in design and to speed up the matter in all respects. I know that the Ministry of Environment and Space is the one to take care of, but I am sure that the Ministry of Transport will also wish to ensure a quality transport link, in synergy with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, as well as with the European Affairs Service, draw any other levers to ensure that quality transport links in Slovenia are elsewhere, not only in large urban centres, but also Ljubljana or Maribor, Koper or Celje, somewhere else. In short, I'll support this. However, I am sure that some of the measures, including the proposal for the Dars Act that we discussed earlier, may also lead to price-related changes. We know that the builders are already moaning, and I am sure that sometimes it is also justified that it is difficult to "come through" with such prices. However, because there is a crisis period, we are all together, as we say, on the same wagon, because we do not have ships in the White Land, and we must also get through it. However, I hope that the roads will not be the easiest way to drive by car and not by car. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u153	Thank you. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mrs. Nigga. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Potočnik. [[He's not here.]] Dr. Verlich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u154	Thank you very much. In the main, I have already stated in the position of our Group where opposition to this law is actually or why we do not think it is suitable for further consideration. It is not suitable due to the item 'electronic tolling system' due to an item worth €150 million. Euro150 million is expected to give state toll guarantees at this time. While the priorities of building roads, including highways, sections that are somewhat remote and do not come to order, as we all point out in the National Assembly, they do not come to them. It is not about saying that the electronic tolling system, tolling in free traffic, are all the measures that the European Union, the European Commission, has its own programmes, wants to introduce interoperability, and we believe that the state of Slovenia can join this electronic tolling system, tolling in free traffic once the countries around us accept it. In fact, we know that we have a very busy highway crossing with transit. And it is probably cheaper if other countries introduce this system and then, say, the Austrians through Slovenia drive through their system, which will have to be connected. But if we are now starting this tolling, we will probably have to equip all of Europe with these devices. Why is that? Maybe 150 million euros is needed for that too. It's a shame, why now, this moment, when we know that we could do a lot to speed up the acquisition of documentation, land purchases, I don't know, maybe already the start of construction on these sections that are urgently needed and people are waiting for them. This is the unfinished part of the highway from Drazenci to Gruškov. I do not know how Members from these places will be able to explain that this country will immediately be in charge of EUR 150 million for the electronic system of free movement tolling, when we know that the tolling system works. It's working. We're still on the freeway. All right, we're also touring trucks. Toll stations. Long columns of trucks are gone. But the Draženci-Gruškovje highway is standing, and it will be somewhere in the future. When I asked the Minister of Transport what is going on with the highway from Postojna to Jelshan and further connected to the Croatian highway system, Croatia built a very nice highway to the border crossing, and from Divaca to Ilirska Bistrica. What do I get in answer? There's no yearbook, we can't determine exactly when we're going to start building that part of the highway. And to go back to the third development axis, which my fellow Member of the Social Democracy is always talking about. And he's right. But here at this third development axis, we don't even know whether it's Dars' jurisdiction or Dars' jurisdiction, whether it's a toll road or not. But we know we're spending 150 million euros on the toll system right now. We think we can wait. In our parliamentary group and I personally believe that the tolling system can wait. In order to wait for European interoperability, these projects are running and will certainly be cheaper when they are tackled by all Europe and not Slovenia. Slovenia had already invented its ABC, which was not interoperable, what was interoperable, it was even working on non-standard frequencies, but okay, it was working well, it was part of some past, one of the then thinking and it was probably expensive and it was expensive. Now we have a system that allows traffic on highways, is good and can work. And if we go back to the debate on the appropriations, because the guarantees have to be made and the funds have been abolished in the previous term. Indeed, there would be every possibility that now, and in fact it would be very good to allocate the earmarked resources from the infrastructure budget, but unfortunately, the coalition has not decided to do so. It has not decided, but it is probably a good priority and is being encouraged, now that it is a crisis, it can be encouraged. No, you don't. However, our law, which we have put in good faith into the parliamentary procedure, which has allocated 0.6% of the gross social product of the State budget for the purpose of financing the construction of road infrastructure, has not been supported because it has been said that it will continue following this system, as the previous government has determined: with debt, without dedicated resources from the budget. Okay, okay. But it is a shame that the purpose of lending and the purpose of guarantees is given for an electronic tolling system at such an amount, when we have the need to build a basic infrastructure so strongly exposed. And there are no completed motorway sections, not against Primorska, not on a fiern road, not on the developmental axis, but we are already going to an upgrade that can wait without difficulty, even because of the introduction of the vignettes of the freeway. And if you're looking at data, there's a lot of traffic, that's verifiable data, from these parallel state roads, it's shifted to highways, which is once again an additional plus. I therefore believe that we can propose that the Government corrects and that it prefers to do what is most necessary; it is said that documentation and the construction of the missing part of the highway system, let us put 150 million into it, the electronic system can still wait, as it is also waiting in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u155	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u156	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, handing over to traffic doesn't mean that all the work is finished, so... [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, it is true that often regimes that only follow the highway are very expensive: either anti-aircraft protection in the case of, say, Rebrnic, water protection regimes, accessible roads, access roads and so on. You know we've opened the lower leg, but there's still work to be done there. This is the main reason that a few more resources are needed there. As far as the liabilities are concerned, Dars pays them regularly. Situations are regularly paid. All nominated subcontractors shall also be paid, at the sign if required. These things are on the move, and there is no problem in this regard that, due to arrears or unpaid or any other obligation, Dars would have to take these guarantees. Let me be pleased to say that the State Spatial Plan Regulation Drazenci-Gruškovje was adopted yesterday in the Government and that the basis for the preparation is that the project for obtaining the building permit is in place. We will now approach these activities to complete the missing part of the freeway as soon as possible. I may not have been at this point before, but it still shows two words to say because it was 3. But the development axis mentioned, and that part around the Skofljica. This part is extremely problematic. For a moment, I may have been overly optimistic when I mentioned that when I visited these places, we would be able to tell when we could make a decision on this. And let me just tell you what the problems we've encountered and what the decision is now and when we can expect this decision to be made on the government regarding the Sculpture. When we were getting from other ministries because we wanted to speed up our decision on this part 3. But the development axes, when we get information from them about the cost of individual requirements, either of nature, or of archaeological nature, or of any other nature, I can tell you some of the problems that we have encountered because it seems important to me. For example, only archaeological research costs more than 15 million dollars for two kilometres of section at Skofljica. Only archaeological digs! Let me tell you, as Minister, I have taken this very seriously. If we have to use EUR 15 million for archaeological research here in front of the National Assembly, this does not seem appropriate in this country, after we have people in certain parts of Slovenia who do not have nearly enough money to live on. With all due respect for cultural and other heritage, this does not seem appropriate to me; so much money is spent on digging and doing everything our archaeological regulations require. The second problem we encountered was habitats. We just don't have enough room to provide these habitats, we don't have them. It's so simple. For the various animals to be relocated due to these routes, and at a certain time also to see if they have been "grabbed" in new habitats. The third problem is that we do not have enough agricultural land in that environment to replace them for this route. Basically, in other words, when we try to put this route in place, we run into virtually impossible conditions all over again. There is now an extension to the Government for inclusion across the other route, including a check of the northern route. We have this moment numbers as to the cost of the route to Škofljica, how much the route should cost, which is popularly called, or in the media you often hear on the route to Fox. So, that year's knot because of these things that I've just mentioned, it's not as easy to cut as I wanted. We expect that in the next week this point in the Government will be addressed and then, after assessing the options, a decision can be taken. Let me say that the version of Fox also brings with it some problems, but they're just different in nature, like the ones I mentioned here. With regard to electronic tolling or tolling in free circulation. I am sure that tolling in free traffic has great advantages, and I would now like to tell you what. Already at the time of the changes in the toll system, we have introduced different classes for different types of trucks, we are talking about eco classes. Those who are the euro 5 or the euro 4, or the euro 3 or less, are paying today different tolls in the Republic of Slovenia. I think it's important that, given the ecologicality of the vehicle, you pay a different toll. Electronic tolling will allow not only different tolls in different parts of the day, not only different tolls for different vehicles, because one pollutes more, one less, either CO2 discharges or particles, but by electronic tolling, not with the same type of ABC, because ABC is also an electronic toll, you can also regulate traffic flows. You can influence the fact that the density in the country is less. Every traffic jam is a cost to the country. The cost is from an ecological point of view, the cost is from the point of view of the people standing there, the cost from the point of view of infrastructure. The solution is not always in the construction of new infrastructure. In particular, it is not a solution to the construction of additional lanes. Solutions can be different. And one of them is a different approach to to tolling, which can by soft measures, say with a diversified toll, affect when people choose to use certain highway sections. I therefore think that there are many reasons for electronic tolling, but of course I do not mention the obligations arising from the rules of the European Union. If we are already part of the European Union, then I must also respect the rules and deadlines imposed on us by the European Union. Let me say that I also ask myself a question several times because I feel that sometimes these rules in the European Union are such that they do impose obligations on one hand and do not answer all the technological questions or the challenges that such tolling poses in concrete terms. In particular, this applies to a country such as Slovenia, which is largely transitive and will have to answer a number of questions about what we call the OBU, this is called the "on board unit unit" which you have in your car, which one way or another, after one, second or third technology counts the number of kilometres transported or the time toll your use of motorways. However, if this had happened, as previously said, that we would have had technology as one of the first, especially if it were domestic technology, then this would have been excellent because we could sell, market and be the first in Europe to tolling, and we could have a lot of it, not just as a country, but Dars as well as those who would have it. If that were to happen, I'd be extremely happy and thrilled.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u157	Thank you. There's no Lord Possession. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u158	I thank the Minister for some answers, but believe me, I know what you said. I cannot understand, however, that it is copied from year to year, from the guarantee to the guarantee, one thing that is said to be: Final works on sections built in 1994-20o7, totalling 262 million euros. Nobody's gonna tell me that there's something else you need to finish driving on the road, and so on. Either they copy it in a routine way or they hold to what I fear is not completed, they are dragged, not paid or any other way. But I am pleased, especially because of the public that Dars is paying, because mainly subcontractors and others have recently protested and there are also some problems that we have witnessed in other cases. So from this point of view, that's just fine. I look forward now to being on Dars' side, not reading every year or reading 20 goals for each guarantee and completing things from that program – now it's 16 years ago. I know the case: the intention of a dedicated highway in 1998, last year the building permit fell due to the expiry of a 10-year period, then the law on placing in the space or who could plan it. The government takes a decision in January because it is a matter of regulating on the highway that it can now do so for Darsa’s account – it plans – and the municipality, after last year’s ministry of transport or railway workers within it do not give an opinion within the time limit, this year when this procedure is repeated on the basis of the Government’s decision, will be delayed for two days and then the Ministry of the Environment will take it into its own hands, and now they are pursuing whether two crossings will be one or will be prisoners and so on. But that's all there is. Therefore, something else should also be laid down in that, if we are to be in charge for these purposes, these tasks must also be carried out. However, it is not to say that some cases have been completed between 1994 and 2007. Earlier in my previous marriage, I asked you how you have old data, that you don't update data, that you have them in your explanations from 2009. That's the way it is here. Apparently someone's writing, writing, not controlling what's really going on. Then, as soon as it is actually necessary to explain and make a line: how much something has cost, when it was finished, but not to drag so far into the future. There's not a lot of words to lose around this because it's the last such project in the National Assembly and because we're going to support it. But yet, 34 million to complete the Ribs is a lot of bottoms if things really got that big. It says, "roadway sections with changes in financial structures, totaling 34 million", then Razdrto-Vipava, Ribnice, Peračica-Tabor, Pluska-Ponikve and so on. The key is that for those below the second point you have 262 million, where they are less resilient or I will say less valued these works so that you can say, for 34 million O. K., if there are other Drazenci, the Peračica-Sub-Tabor is still being implemented, if I understand correctly, something has been encouraged there and so on. But 262 million just so, in general, is, at least for those who are curious and to explain to the public, especially because colleagues from the SDS have called twice a week to explain or explain to witnesses what has been going on in this highway programme for almost two decades.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you. Mr. Tanko, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, Mrs. Priest. At least when the minister speaks, you don't have to chew the chigum. Yesterday, we heard a lot of comments on the quality of the prepared interpretation, when Minister Luksic and all members of the coalition parliament spoke about the lack of quality of the material. In addressing this point, even some coalition Members, who have a long internship in the National Assembly and a lot of experience, point out that there are some things in these explanations that are already ancient, which do not belong to law and so on. In short, it would be good for the Government, the government’s coalition of materials that it provides to the National Assembly, to examine them properly before we get them to the table, and that the coalition — the major part that sits in my presence — is critical even to these materials, not only to stumble at any inclination of a word or sex when the word is not properly written. But here we have substantive problems, respectable colleagues, and problems. Secondly, I would like to draw attention to the fact that this country has many more pressing problems and needs, not only in the field of transport, but also in many other areas where the financing of research or the development of the toll system is. This is in some ways funding research in the field that will not have any positive effects in the short term. And even if we develop this system outside the EU system, it means that this system will be a sui generis, like the ABC system of sui generis, which is not compatible with any comparable system, not around us, not anywhere else. Given how we deal with individual projects, individual solutions, there is a high probability that development will go in this direction and that a new item will then be required to adapt our toll system to the new toll system, which will apply to our environment in Austria, Hungary, Italy. Mr Verlič rightly pointed out, and his comment is that if we engage in the development of the toll model, the toll system, then let us do this in sync with the EU institutions, which are likely to make an effort to choose one or two toll system operators for Europe as a whole in this area. It probably does not make sense for such large funds as EUR 150 million to move forward in some area. I think it is more practical to use this money, which would otherwise be allocated to some development activity that might be part of the Ministry of Higher Education, to deal with problems on the watercourses, perhaps to upgrade the missing railway system units, or perhaps to finance the construction of some of the development axes or sections on these development axes, for some area, for any additional belt or for any other area. I think it would be entirely rational to expect in these times when we have to do something in this area. I think it is unnecessary for half of these funds to be obtained on the basis of a guarantee or debt to be earmarked for such a development activity with a questionable future. I know that this would be extremely nice for European countries to take together, buy our toll model, our toll system. That would be extremely fine. But who's vouching for that? If one thing we want to develop is to be useful for the wider European environment, it is likely that this must be done in some synchronisation with those who are the main consumers of these systems. I doubt that we will sell this to the Federal Republic of Germany, France and anyone, as well as Austria, for example. You're probably going to have a hard time doing this. The other thing is. When you mentioned certain sections of the road and also the discussion about some of the places of the carriageways, and here you also mentioned this installation of the carriageway in the area on Škofljica, I would like to get some information. Because in these procedures, these prices change for this motorway section, and this is mainly due to changes in some of the regulations that have so far been different. I strongly doubt that the relocation of a natural value takes four times as much area as it is now occupied and that these replacement agricultural land is actually more expensive than a built-up road. These are some questions that need to be answered. These criteria are likely to be adapted exclusively to the interests of the lobby to which it is intended to build when placing this shell and assessing the value of this shell into the space. And if the priority is to build tunnels and expensive road investments, then it is likely that in those sections that are involved in the study of variants, in fact, the criteria, regulations and issues are only slightly improved there in these technical matters and, as a result, in financial matters, becomes uninteresting and financially incomparable. I can't get rid of that impression. For too long, we have been monitoring developments in this highway area, when it was financed by a number of sections only for the Slovenian construction profession to study and to get some heavy construction department to do certain things there and then also to cover appropriate financial matters. That's what I think is unacceptable. I would like to draw attention to one more detail that Mr. Anderlič certainly knows. This section in Škofljica, this connection to Škofljica, was adopted in 2004 solely for the purpose of bringing the then coalition, the success story, to this motorway connection, the whole additional programme. At that time, there was a terrible resistance to state-level elections on the ground, as the additional programme in this government proposal was completely deleted. And that was the only amendment that went through the whole procedure and then hung himself on it with the whole extra highway program. But not three months after this happened, the government, Minister Kopač, accepted Natura 2000, where this one of all these sections, which were then placed in the space, was circumcised, eliminated with Natura 2000. Interesting. You'll see. Before that, there was no problem with this amendment supporting and hanging on it the entire highway additional programme, and three months later with Natura 2000 covering this amendment and removing it as a solution that is completely inappropriate from other aspects, from the nature-protection and other criteria. I wonder about those of you who voted at the time, what did you have in your pocket? Figs. How do you confirm a solution that you then eliminated with Natura 200? And now we've been poking around for six, seven years whether Natura 200 is there or not, whether it's a solution that belongs there or not. Nevertheless, Slovenia does not have a better and more appropriate connection to this part. Any connection, including the one you intend to build on Fox, is certainly of poor technical quality, difficult to implement, expensive, extremely expensive. And if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and all those who are so concerned with the protection of the first-class agricultural areas had any possibility or serious ambitions there, it is likely that at the Ljubljana Bar they would introduce a comassation where they would make an exhibition of land, see what is real and what is not relevant for the agricultural use, who wants to farm and who does not want and would get the rounded habitats in this way, a habitat of some 100 hectares that they would give to the Agricultural Land Fund and would arrange the matter there. However, it is not possible to implement this measure for five years. It doesn't fit anywhere! At a few meetings, we warned that this could be done. And it's a process where all of the surfaces that are not up-to-date, that are not in use, that are out-of-function and can be formed, rounded, combined, and we get a habitat. No problem, but if there is no ambition, if there is no desire, if it is more important to give something to and enable it to serve well in these projects, then there is no such procedure. But there are probably a lot of other things that need to be realized, even in other ways, even through the cabinet of the President of the Government, if not through the invitation to tender, but with some special intervention, someone just plugs in to get some kind of deal. Examples in the submission of parts of certain electronic regulation cases already this year show that this can also happen. We read in the media about these procedures when even the cabinet of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intervened [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] that certain things are taken up and that certain things are decided differently than public procurement procedures should. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u162	First, I am sure that you know very well, but it must be said out loud that there is a difference between funding and guarantee, because we do not finance anything with this law, we provide a guarantee, and now you are saying that this money should be channelled into, say, research. It's not money, it's a guarantee, it's a guarantee for projects, and so far not a single guarantee that the state has given to Dars has been cashed out throughout history. So it's not about physical money, it's not about specific budget items that you could transfer to somewhere else because they're not that meaningful here. Now, as far as tolling is concerned, here we share a desire that maybe Slovenia would have a first and a good system to export it. It's just, I wouldn't be so pessimistic that it's not possible. After all, Dars probably wouldn't be the one to make this technology. Surely, as they have done abroad, we have the knowledge at home that these things would be done if those who know this were gathered together. I strongly doubt that this is my opinion that one single institution in Slovenia could do this, but if some Slovenian knowledge were to be gathered here, perhaps they could be competitive. I am saying this because, otherwise, if this doubt is that we are unable to do so, then Slovenia could not sell anything abroad, and we have many products that are top-notch and we sell them abroad. I am so sure that I can very little convince you that this is possible, even though some other countries are technologically far from here. As far as Nature is concerned, it is a shame that this happened there, in that part of it, but unfortunately it happened later, at least after my information, an increase in this Nature, even further stretched this area, completely to the waist of the houses and so practically made that installation impossible. Now, my sincere wish is to resolve this matter, not for the other's sake, but because it is one of the most burdened accesses to Ljubljana at all. And safe and otherwise. So, 3. But the developmental axis, with it we deal with a lot, Piazza Gorica will now work, we also make plans for other districts and so on. And what escapes me here is – so, some say that then the tunnels will have to be expanded, some say they won't have to. That's a big question. Now I'm going to tell you why, this is my thinking, it doesn't have to be right. But when we look at the PLDP as we watch the daily transport of vehicles, if we have only one option today, this is via the Škofljica, such as it is, then we have two options, which means that traffic flows are divided, then there is no need for traffic flows on the highway to be so dense that the part of the motorway section to Ljubljana will have to be increased. However, if it turns out to be necessary, we have calculations that the route is still cheaper than that via the Skofljica with these existing regulations. I agree, however, that Slovenian regulations are such that this section on the Box is so much more expensive. Let me also say what I did as a minister; together with the Ministry of Environment and Space we have prepared government material that has literally entrusted other ministries with certain tasks. Nevertheless, we have reached the figures I told you about before: more than €15 million only for archaeological research. The problem of habitats, which, as you correctly identify, are as much as the existing area, the problem of agricultural land. Whenever we try to place this route here somehow, there are new and new obstacles. If nothing else, at least in the assessment of variants it is also necessary to include this variant, which is popularly referred to as the variant in Fox.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Yeah, I see your hand. I'm opening a time-sharing application. Three reported in five minutes. Mr. Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I'd like to respond to two things. One is the electronic toll system and the sale of domestic knowledge abroad and the marketing. I fully agree with you, but it would be much better if you did not have to give 150 million euros for this, and at the end of the day, the state guarantee, which, if it did fail, would of course be a burden for taxpayers. And that's what worries about this thing, and not that we don't want Slovenian companies that are highly technologically developed to know or fail. However, there is 150 million stakes here, which is not the stakes of these companies, but would be the stake of the state. But this is where we need to think a little bit more about it, and not least, we have also had such a unique system, it was the ABC system, I've said this before. It worked at a non-standard frequency, non-European frequency and elsewhere, except in Slovenia, but it was said that it was also unique and the best. That is not the way it is now; and this was the concern, not to be against tolling, I repeat, but we are following, we are simply following European projects. These run from the European Commission's umbrellas, and I think Dars, as one of the partners, is involved in these projects and they run simultaneously and in sync, and when Europe is ready for this, it will be very cheap for Slovenia, and we can spend this 150 million for the purposes that are now more up-to-date, and that is to build the highway network as soon as possible in that additional programme. Although this does not belong directly to this law now, but the debate has opened and it has been pointed out first by Mr Minister; as far as Nature 2000 is concerned, I have already pointed out in one debate in the second law that the European Directive governing Natura 2000 by this name allows for exceptions to the health and life of people when it comes to threats. I propose that it be read to study, because in these cases, it is possible for the European Commission to be informed and matters from Natura 2000 can also be eliminated. If a road like that doesn't fall within the category of endangering people's health and lives, then I don't know what that means. I understand naturalists, I understand the threat to the life of butterflies – but, excuse me, not at the cost of human life and health! Once you have checked the options, when you have adopted a good decision by the Government, which obviously needs to be changed now, consider the possibilities that Natura 2000 will also be eliminated. The European Commission, European bureaucrats are only people who have to work under European directives, and this is a possibility. Check it before we start teasing and rebuild some lobby to build roads on account of, for example, expensive archaeological excavations and some Nature 2000. Natura 2000 is a document, a paper that is, of course, valid and can also be eliminated, and it is administrative matters. So let's do it! Once the Minister for Environment and Space, I suggest that you too – go to Brussels and withdraw at least this part of Nature 2000. The basis for this is in the European Directive.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u165	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u166	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Minister and all others present! All you have to say is that he doesn't exactly hold what the minister said about us deciding on the guarantee, not the money. This is our decision on the content of what this money will be spent on. For when we speak of the guarantee, we also confirm the purpose for which this guarantee is given. This content is therefore very important because it reflects priorities. It reflects not only the priorities of Darsa, but mainly the priorities of the Government in the area of the construction of the highway cross in the Republic of Slovenia. And it tells us that these priorities are bad or wrong. This is particularly important in these situations in which Slovenia is located. I have just seen on the website that recently the debt of the state budget has passed over the magic number of 12 billion euros; more than you have doubled it in a good year and a half. You know that the six-year implementation of the state budget is significantly worse than in the first half of last year, 120 million euros is less revenue and 200 million euros is more expenditure. And the gap, the real deficit, is already €320 million in the first half of the year, a billion euros last year. In such situations, priorities are all the more important. In particular, it takes into account the fact that nothing has yet been prepared on some sections, including your statements, the well-respected minister. Nothing! In the Jelshan case, you will have Gornja Radgon within three years. You know that Croatia has already adopted the relevant acts and regulations that redirect traffic towards this direction, and a disaster will soon occur there. Even now, the Illyrian Bistrica is encased in trucks. As soon as the traffic doesn't go through this corridor. And it would be necessary to – I have suggested in the question of this in the House last time – redefine this project, break it into a number of different sets and give priority to the part relating to the bypass around Illyrian Bistrica and the connection to Jelšan. Priority! Because if it remains as it is now recorded in all the programmes, it will not be done for 20 years, you yourself said that when you were in the elections in Illyrian Bistrica together with then Minister of Environment Karl Erjavac. In short, these funds for which we guarantee should be all the more devoted in these circumstances to the further construction of highway infrastructure. And leave the electronic toll project alone, which will consume 150 million euros because it is unnecessary, at this point completely unnecessary and harmful, especially for our citizens and citizens. Slovenia is an extremely transit country, which is why the system that has now been implemented by vineyards is appropriate and friendly to our people and sustainable for those who are just crossing our country. I wonder why this electronic toll does not rush another country. Why does Austria not hurry, for example, which is also an extremely transit country? Why isn't Switzerland in a hurry? Why the vignette system works for them, it is also for small countries that have a friendly system for their people. I think it is right that even in the first place, especially given the relatively low economic and social status in this country, which is lower every day, our country is looking primarily at its people. And at 150 million euros, I'm afraid it's a similar project, like the stickers when it wasn't about the project because of the project, but it was about allowing someone enormous wealth without the right content, about a similar project like ABC tolling, where it wasn't about the project again, but about allowing someone to "file" their private budget every month. And here I fear that this is again a lobbyist link in the background that requires this to be carried out in order for this business to be sealed and concluded in the course of your government and for a group of companies, we know what this is all about, to profit enormously from this title. That's wrong. It speaks of the fact that the interest of this government is not the general situation in the country and that it allows people to have the best possible situation for life and work, but in particular the protection of the interests of individuals who are in, near or around this government. If you do not change that, you will also confirm that word because no one in this country will believe that it is now necessary to devote 150 million euros in this situation to some mega-Romanian toll project that is totally unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable Presidents, Honourable Fellows and Fellow Members! I'm kind of disappointed. We are talking about almost EUR 280 million to Darsus and we are deciding today, and it seems to me that it would almost be more necessary to justify these reasons why this guarantee for such an amount was justified by the Minister of Finance more than by the Minister of Transport. After all, it would be more logical to explain and justify the giver than the spender. But, Minister, I really want to remind you of one fact, and I don't mind if I'm wrong. Check, really, what's going on at the Slivnica– Drazenci section. The road was opened more than a year ago and has been dedicated to purpose and ever since we started talking about the construction of the Slivnica–Drazenci motorway, we have always covered the next section of Drazenci–Gruškovje, Subsection of Gruškovje – the border crossing of Macelij. The length of this short subsection is 600 meters. In this year's 2010 annual programme, we have found that in 2010, all the works will be completed on the highway route and the implementation of municipal and energy lines. On the basis of why again for this short 600-meter section, we see it's geological research and I don't know what kind of research. Look! Do some really want to fool us in such a modest, simple way? However, we are Members and Members from all over Slovenia, and we pay particular attention to such things! And really, don't mind me, I'd like to be wrong, but believe me, when you go to see in detail what's going on in this 600-meter section, who's got the nest here, and where he's deceiving you when he's constantly justifying the use of funds. Once, as stated in this annual development plan and the restoration of the highway for 2010, when it writes one, it is based on why this money is needed for the 600m section, it writes something else. And it is no wonder then, and we do not mind that then we find ourselves in the instruments that we Members and Members have, and in the final stage we reach the so-called commissions of inquiry, which we do not want with the greatest joy. But look, it's non-transparent and contradictory reasons why money is used. Dear Minister, once again, please take your time, take a look at this six-meter section, for which there is a gold pit. It is necessary, and thank God that it was finally adopted by the Government yesterday also a state-level location plan for the proceedings to begin. And just as you have repeatedly publicly promised that you will make a special effort to make this section available as soon as possible to your purpose. I believe, and once again I ask you not to witness again the stories of the fast road Ptuj – Markovci – Ormož, where Dars is also deeply involved. Prime Minister Dars wasn't there at the time, and now he's in that position and he's there, and there's weird things going on here. And believe me, at the section Draženci-Gruškovje, Gruškov – the border crossing happens to me in person strange things happen to me, but I told you the reasons. This can easily be found in the documents. And really please give priority to this section, let's conclude, this is essentially the last part of the freeway, more than ten kilometers long, so that we can talk about the completion of the highway program in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u169	Thank you. And Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u170	Thank you very much. On this point, I have already consulted with the Director a little while ago, and we will have a chance to say something. And here's the problem, if I understand correctly, is one ownership house that made it impossible to do previous geological research. But we'll take this warning seriously and see what's actually going on there. But now, with regard to the placement of that work, although it is not a direct point, it may show something about this thing that goes from Postojna or Divaca to the Jelshans. The fact that nothing was done was simply not true. That's the kind of thing we have to answer. It is true, however, that this ministry does not run the premises, it is run by another, the Ministry of Environment and Space. We are just preparing the parts that are necessary for them to take those procedures, but it is not true that nothing has been done and you have possible reports in this regard. We can also tell you what has been done so far, where they are, or through the cooperation of the Ministry of Environment and the space that leads it. There's something I have to say about the debt. In 2005, Slovenia's net indebtedness was nothing. But then she started growing up during the conjunctural period, that's what to say. But there is no country in the world that does not owe its country in times of crisis. She's not here. And so do we. I am most pleased to say so – happy when we do this in order for a country or people to have some of it. And infrastructure projects are certainly such, and if I am trying to do something about it, it is to accelerate, after virtually there are no spatial facilities to accelerate and do as much as possible for those people who, due to such or different decisions in the past, are slightly less equal than others in the Republic of Slovenia. Such areas are something in Slovenia, either Koroška, or White Krajina, or Posočje. Several parts of Slovenia cannot be as accelerated and well developed as the parts that are along the highway. And that's not a secret. And my policy in the area of infrastructure is that they have the priority of those areas that are far from the highway cross from those that are slightly closer to the highway cross. I hope to say this out loud and I think it is also good because this is the only way that those parts of Slovenia will have at least about the same conditions for life and for their future business.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u171	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday, 28 in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. 9. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 36. PURSUANT TO THE PURSUANT TO THE NON-CONFORMITY OF THE NON-CONFORMITY OF THE NON-CONFORMITY OF THE NON-CONFORMITY OF THE COURT FOR THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF ACCORDING TO THE COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS OF PUBLIC FUNCTION FOR THE PURPOSE OF THE RESULT OF THE VOLIDITY IN THE COURT OF THE COURT OF COURT OF THE COURT OF THE COURT OF AUDITION, FOR A PURPOSE OF THE PURPOSE FOR THE PURPOSE OF THE COURSEMENT AND FOR THE NON-COURSEMENTAL AND FOR THE NON-OVERNAL AND FOR THE THIRAGE OF THE THIRD INVITIES OF THE INVITAL INVITAL On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a group of 31 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank submitted the request for the initiation of a parliamentary inquiry to the National Assembly. I give the floor to Mr Zvonko Černač's representative for further explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u172	Once again, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, everyone else is present! As has already been said, a group of 31 Members and Members from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members and the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members have submitted a request for a parliamentary inquiry to determine, inter alia, the political responsibilities of holders of public powers due to suspicion of abuse in the so-called Patria case or affair. The request for a parliamentary inquiry has been tabled because of the suspicion of abuse of the official position of public officials with a view to influencing the outcome of the elections in the 2008 National Assembly, in view of the suspicion of the abuse of the official position of public officials in order to mislead the domestic and foreign public and domestic and foreign investigative bodies on the basis of the partial or political needs of the modified, as well as some hidden data, resulting in the extension or aggravation of the criminal investigation in the case of Patrio or its targeting of the non-involved political contestants, in view of the suspicion of the abuse of the official position of public authorities for the purpose of misleading the domestic public and concealing the conflict of interests of foreign investigators and the suspicion of the abuse of the official position of public officials to abolish the parliamentary commission for the purpose of preventing corruption with a view to concealing the role of certain members, and, in particular, of the then, of the President of the Commission, to prevents the corruption of the Commission. Recently, the second anniversary of this story has passed, and almost all of our last year's forecasts are coming true. At that time, if I refresh my memory, we said that this affair, which served as a political account at the 2008 national elections, would continue to be misused for political purposes for a long time. We expected that in two years, in the face of numerous police investigations and in the light of the expressed suspicions of the worst crimes after the media reported the flow of money on the Patria-Riedl-Wolf-Cekuta route, that is, among LDS leaders, suspicions are confirmed or rejected. Instead, we are witnessing the re-politicisation of the case, this time even the abuse of state authorities for political purposes. We are witnessing politically motivated indictments without evidence, but I am not accusing those who have been suspected of commissioning. The Indians, who show that the story of Patria is politically motivated, are many. It would probably be right to start at the beginning, in the announcement of the "big bang" in August 2008 in the Sunday Diary by the former president of the state of Milan Kučan, this was just before the national elections, and we can continue with the scriptwriters or script of the film Truth about Patria, which was apparently written in Slovenia, the main actors are from Slovenia and those who helped and indirectly participated outside Slovenia are political friends of these actors. This truth about Patria was broadcast on Finnish television Yle, the director of this television Mikael Jungner is today the secretary-general of the Finnish SDP, the sister party of Slovenian Social Democrats, the Pahor Social Democrats, before becoming director of Finnish television Yle, was the advisor of this party. The truth about Patria is that political travelers, or sympathizers, of the present authority. The largest share must be borne by the then President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Drago Kos, former LDS Member or Social Democrats Milan M. Cvikl, individuals who were interested in this story within the context of Viator&Vector, Pavčko Viator&Vektor, member of LDS or Systemic Technics, who played in this story as actors and spent lies and non-truths. One of the last prized for media assistance in the affair with the high position of Vice-President of the Anti-Corruption Commission by the President of the State recently was the infamous journalist Dnevnik, who exclusively publishes information from the prosecution's files on cases where the authorities wanted to discredit political opponents. All we can think of is cases of discrediting the Attorney General's office, randomly taken data from sociograms that had nothing to do with the investigation in Patria. By the way, I hope that this investigation will show what was actually going on in this investigation and what were the real backgrounds, because sociograms on hundreds of thousands of targets probably cannot produce smart results. Otherwise, in the last period in the indictments which were not substantiated in any way in the last six months, Officer Delo has been leading the case, even with specific accusations that the money from Patrie ended not with the SDS president, but with the SDS party. The charges were brought without evidence or indictory. Well, then responsible editor Dela Kosher is sitting in Pahor's office today as director of the government communication office, or on his left or right if you want. Milan M. Cwickl, who did the most dirty work in this affair, was paid for with a well-paid function in Luxembourg. His fellow Member, former Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Rob, also with a similar function in the institutions of the European Union. It must be said, however, that at the time of the Government of Rop on 20 August 2004, without weighing offers, a letter was signed on the intention to supply eight-wheelers with Mr Pavčko, which was not realized at the time of the change of power, and that the same Ropov government sold a share of System Technology and a license for eight-wheelers to that same company or to Viator&Vektor for a substantial price. The statements and activities of the actors accompanying the affair suggest that this is a political background and a politically directed story, so, ladies and gentlemen, the subject will be a Slovenian politician. The subject will be that part of the policy and those actors who unfortunately act not only publicly and transparently and in front of the public, but mainly in the background and thereby create a para-state. We have a hard and responsible job ahead of us. It's the most insolent affair since independence, which needs to get an epilogue. We need to explore the political background of the story, we have two bad years of time at our disposal. On behalf of the applicants, I can say that we will do everything possible to complete the task. In doing so, of course, we expect the active assistance of the repressive authorities, the prosecutions, the courts, and we hope that the latter investigations will not interfere, as has been the case in one of the other investigative commissions. Independently, we expect the police, however, and of course the prosecution and others, to carry out their part of the task and to investigate the suspicions about the flow of money that have been repeatedly exposed in the media among the former political leaders of the former LDS and SD, and to reject or confirm the suspicion that illegal commissions have been paid in this business. Allow me to briefly summarize some of the key points in the request for a parliamentary inquiry. The purpose of this parliamentary inquiry is set out in several points. The first of these speaks of the purpose of determining whether the holders of public powers have obstructed and prevented the implementation of a transparent invitation to tender for the purchase of eight-wheelers and with false truths, half-truths and mounted stories to influence public opinion in order to achieve political changes in parliamentary elections in 2008 to ensure a political majority that would enable them to form a new government and to pay for the benefits of lost business. The role of the former President of the Commission to prevent corruption, former Prime Minister of the Government of Mr Anton Rope, former Ambassador Milan M. Cwickl and other prominent representatives of these political parties should be examined in this regard. Furthermore, the purpose of this investigation is to determine whether they claim that Patria started preparations for a trade for eight-wheelers in Slovenia in 2003 and whether they hold certain documented indications that before the change of government in 2004 Patria had already had two key policies covered in the Republic of Slovenia, the current President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Ropa and the current President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Drnovska, and that Patria could not come into contact with the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Janez Janša. The purpose of this investigation is to determine whether the government of the then Prime Minister and the President of the LDS is mag. Antona Ropa Zdenku Pavčku without invitation to tender provided a very favourable purchase of the state share in the company Systemic technique and sale of the licence for eight-wheelers. The purpose of this investigation is to determine whether during the period of the Government of the President of the LDS mag. Anton Ropa in 2004 signed a letter of intent with LDS member Zdenko Pavčko in order to prevent the Slovenian Army from selecting the optimum weapons systems from several manufacturers and to ensure that the business without a call for tender was sold to the company Systemic Technology, which was sold to the same gentleman half a year earlier in March 2004. The purpose of this parliamentary investigation is to further determine whether the unusual business practice in Slovenia mentioned by the representative of Patrie, Mr Jorma Wiitacorpi, when the acquisition of arms and military equipment was decided by the Presidents of the Government and the President of the Republic and not by military experts, and which was apparently strongly present before 2004, and probably used in all acquisitions of military equipment before 2004, signs of a corrupt crime. The purpose of this parliamentary inquiry is, inter alia, to answer the question whether the economic and political actors of the Patria affair failed in the public international invitation to tender for the selection of eight-wheelers for the Slovenian Army, the interests and capital of the unlawful acquisition of a business. The purpose of this investigation is also to determine whether the President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Mr Kos, has, despite his expressed awareness of the conflict of interest due to his brother's involvement in the Systematic Technology, pointed out this conflict to foreign investigators of this affair. The published documentation of his hearing before the Finnish investigators shows that he was misleading the investigator on the basis of factually false indications. The purpose of this investigation is to determine how the conflict of interest affected the course of the investigation and whether the initiation of non-true data to foreign investigators resulted in the implementation of a less efficient, more costly and, above all, longer-term investigation than it could have been, and what subjective fault of the holders of public powers has arisen in this regard. On the other hand, the applicants of this commission of inquiry expect the investigators to finally begin to investigate those who have been suspected of receiving illegal commissions, and to finally provide the Slovenian public with evidence of whether and to whom Patricia has paid the commissions and where these commissions have been stranded, or whether these suspicions will be overturned. That he would not ultimately be suspected only by the former minister, who in any way wanted to be disposed of in this government, because of the work of the bride, and by the former prime minister, on the basis of some of the e-mails in which he was mentioned, without knowing it. Of course, we expect the representatives of all the parliamentary groups to participate in this committee. This investigation is in the interest of Slovenia. This investigation is in the interest of the State and by participating in this committee you will confirm your willingness to examine once and for all the suspicions mentioned. Otherwise, I think they will be given the indication that your political cooperation in directing and writing the script of this story was great. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u173	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! On August 20, 2004, the government signed a letter of intent for armored 8x8 with the company Systemic Technology, whose first man is Zdenko Pavček, a prominent member of LDS. In the week, Robov did so without an invitation, due to friendly political ties, as well as in a number of other cases. The deal was concluded on the basis of the Resolution on the General and Long-term Programme for the Development and Equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, adopted in the 2004 National Assembly, on the proposal of the then government, led by Mr Anton Rop. However, the players were obviously not primarily driven by the desire and concern for the development of the Slovenian Army, but apparently by the greed for the profits to follow from this concluded business. The following events are the ones that show that all businesses were carefully planned and, above all, the profits were carefully planned, and precisely because of the amounts involved, the people in the Systemic Technology and LDS circle, after they started to avoid the business, became very panic-stricken. Then, of course, the epilogue was achieved in the form of an accusation made by John Janša in a documentary of Finnish television. For this reason, it is also necessary to find out in the investigative commission that we have before us today whether they hold that Patria started preparing for the 8x8 bike business in Slovenia already in 2003. There is no need to ignore the essential fact that in the documented statements we can read that before the change of government in 2004, Patria should have already had two key policies covered in the country; the then Prime Minister of the Government of Anton Rope and the then President of the State of Dr Janez Drnovšk, while Janez Janša, as then Prime Minister of the Government, could not come into contact. In short, it is necessary to determine why the names of former key politicians appear in the documents and why it is marked that Patria controls them while Janez Janša cannot reach them. However, the following information is certainly necessary to clarify the story in more detail. In 2003, Mr Anton Rop sold Mr Zdenek Pavčku 80% of the System Technology – how interesting! – previously rehabilitated taxpayers with four million euros. Indeed, first-class manipulation of taxpayers on the one hand and an excellent opportunity for wealth at the expense of others on the other. And these are not just indications that some media likes to refer to very much when it comes to hitting someone under a party directive because it is too dangerous for them, but it is simply a matter of fact. And they talk about the fact that the then President of the Government, on the basis of friendly ties, made it possible to purchase a state-owned company at a price, as Mr Pavček obviously wanted to get into profitable arms deals that he would probably not only benefit from, but also likely those that enabled him to buy the System Technology firm firmly below the price. Therefore, the eight-wheeled deal did not begin with the government of Janez Janša, as it had long wanted to mislead the public, especially by the then Member of the Social Democrats Milan M. Zvikl, who then received a well-paid job in the institutions of the European Union for his dirty work in the Patria affair, but was carried out by the government of Anton Rope on the basis of his own motion in the form of a resolution in the 2004 National Assembly. Dear President, I'd like to ask you to calm my colleagues down for a moment. I know they're nervous, but I'd like to say it peacefully to the end, if I may.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u175	I have a feeling it's stuck and they've calmed down.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u176	Thank you very much. So John Janša’s government did not start with the eight - year - olds. The crucial moment in the issue of armoured personnel took place at the moment when the voters and voters allocated the highest number of their votes in the 2004 elections to the SDS party, which thus took over the leadership of the country after years of continued party rule of the left political options. At that time, however, the new government did not only take over power, but, among other things, it wanted to end some of the established patterns and practices, which, unfortunately, have regained its domestic right, especially in the form of clientism and corruption. Let him mention only the National Investigation Office, where LDS Minister and President Katarina Kresal made a deal with her friend and allowed him to finance his bank account at the expense of the State. And to Minister Golobic, who gave up the highest-ranking minister of this government, Minister of Economy, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, because he could no longer participate in the government, who openly supports that Ultra, co-owner of Minister Golobič, operates with the country, which is in general contravention of the Integrity Act. And we could keep going, but come back. In particular, it was the intention of the Janšev government to break up with such a pattern of political action, visible in its business with armoured personnel, since the Janšev government, unlike the Government of Rop, demanded a transparent selection process for the best and most favourable bidder for the manufacture of eight-wheelers. On the basis of two offers prepared by Systemic Technology and Rotis, the latter was selected. According to the criteria which it had as a more favourable offer, the Commission recognised the correct offer of Rotis. And this decision, which was made transparently and in accordance with the law, caused an incredible panic within the LDS' economic-capital lobby. However, in this case, Mr. Anderlich, one more thing, and this is essential to what happens. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u177	Mr. Anderlich, you will have your word later and you will be able to say whatever you want. Mrs. Irgle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u178	Thank you very much. So, in this incredible panic, there's something else that happens when you shut down these people's way into state affairs. All of a sudden, they have extremely serious problems because they obviously can live and survive only if they are connected to businesses from a country that they conclude solely on the basis of friendly political connections. Let me just remind you of Mirage, which literally erupted from the Slovenian market as soon as Janez Janša's government lifted the car stickers. Before that, the company had made an incredible financial fortune. In May 2007, a parliamentary commission of inquiry was set up to investigate the alleged irregularities of the operation between Patrio and its mediator in Slovenia – Rotis and the Ministry of Defence. Her leader, the former Member of the Social Democrats mentioned earlier, and then the Secretary-General of the Pahor government, Mr Milan Cvikl, was, of course, trying to convince the public, together with the other opposition MPs, that Janez Janša's government, with the election of the Finnish company Patria, had damaged the country for 50 million euros only because the tender did not elect their favourite, close companion of the political left, Mr Zdenko Pavček. There is certainly an open question as to who all around the then LDS could benefit from more than 100 million Euros worth of arms dealing. According to some highly probable information, the deposits and financial shares of commissions and prizes have also been quite accurately distributed. It is therefore necessary to determine whether persons in the predominantly interest sphere of the LDS and SD really expected or received both political and economic benefits from the business. Of course, since the business undertaken by Janša's government in relation to eight-wheelers was transparent and regular, and since the profits of those who had made a promise through the Systematic Technology have fallen, it has to be doubted that anyone in this country could even carry out a transparent business, even in the light of known patterns of action from the past. Therefore, it was concluded that they would charge political competitors for their intended actions because of a network of circumstances. To this end, a carefully developed scenario was made with a large final just before the elections, in which the former Prime Minister was the main target. It was a strictly coordinated story that some dedicated journalists had announced even in advance. And because of the excessive appetites of individuals from the LDS and SD circle and the desire to regain power, we faced the greatest affair and the greatest accusation without presenting evidence that has ever been encountered by any such high representative of politics in Slovenia. As then Prime Minister and President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, Janša was accused both in front of the domestic and foreign public of taking bribes without evidence and without the possibility of defence in the form of a correction and an apology on Finnish television. That is why this Commission of Inquiry, which we are talking about today, must also determine whether the economic political actors of the Patria affair have found common interest with individual public function holders, leading to their joint and coordinated actions, which was aimed at undermining the reputation of the current government both in the domestic and foreign public at all costs. I also hope that the newly established parliamentary investigation will clarify whether Slovenian actors have really put pressure on Finnish investigators to press charges against Janez Janša, which Finnish investigators have rejected due to lack of evidence, and because of this writing of the indictment, it has been so delayed that the name of Janez Janša has been dragged into this affair in any way, as it has already done in the Owl affair, but then nothing has happened. We decided to set up an investigative commission because, rightly, on the basis of the records and conclusions and events that took place, we suspect that the Finnish investigators were deliberately misled or deliberately silenced by the business, related and political-capital ties of the actors who wanted to influence the investigation. This is evidenced, inter alia, by the ecclesiastical lies of the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, Draga Kosa, Finland, intended solely to direct the investigation against Janez Janša. It is in the public interest to demonstrate precisely and on the basis of evidence of the role played by the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission in the Patria affair, why he based his testimony in Finland solely on rumours and not evidentiary assumptions. It is also in the public interest to find out to the newly established Commission whether the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has exceeded its powers, whether in this case Kosovo was only aid for greater credibility before Finnish criminals, while at the same time facilitating the discreditation of Janez Janša. However, they do not know the real situation in Slovenia and do not know what affairs – from falsification of documents to illegal wiretapping – Mr Kos was involved. And that makes it easier to trust someone who represents an authority like the anti-corruption commission. It just gives him, we have to admit, a certain weight. Of course, it is expected that the Commission will be able to establish contacts with the Finnish Parliament and also with the Finnish institutions to provide, due to the information the Commission needs, an objective and thorough investigation into this, artificially and for the purposes of the left-hand political options of the Patria affair. The fact is, as colleague Cernač mentioned earlier in the introduction, that the affairs should be explored, to the end. Even if the person who was publicly accused of receiving bribes – even on the basis of the letter J, which was later to represent the Croatian director of the factory Đura Đaković Bartola Jerkovic – then led the country, represented it abroad, and even if we know that the indictment broke out in public just before the national elections. The purpose was obvious and also clear – the discreditation and overflight of the name of Janez Janša and the SDS party, because the pre-election polls announced her victory again. And that's how there was a fraud. Again. The area was obviously too much of a temptation for the left hand side, and since the polls did not give Mr. Borut Pahor a victory, and since it was not possible to come to power in a fair manner, you preferred to follow tested methods as you did in the past. So you once came to power through a revolution, during a transition with media and capital control, and before the last elections with the Patria affair. And that's why this commission of inquiry has been set up. I used to say that affairs need to be explored. No, Mr. Anderlich, that's not lies, that's facts. You can read in some history book if you don't believe me because I'm too young, right?Oh, my God! So before I said that the affairs need to be explored, but also looking at the reactions that I now hear here in the hall, it's obviously possible for us that these affairs can be drawn and dragged forever without epilogue. And it does not seem at all dispute to anyone that some particularly dedicated journalists can selectively release various indications, suspicions, insinuations, and, on the basis of these insinuations, draw conclusions and direct their writing in the direction of incriminating a person before anything is said by the institutions of the rule of law. And it's true. The President of the State was right when he said that in this case the legal state was on trial. The indictment in the case of Patrie, which came to the public before the accused was brought to justice, is a violation of the rule of law, and in particular shows how strongly the executive and judicial branches of power and the media are still intertwined with us. According to some of the information also in some media, the indictment's proposal for the administration of Moldova is to come from the very Minister of Justice, Mr Aleš Zalar, or the president of the LDS Ljubljana Committee. It is very interesting that the Youth Week receives an indictment before it is received by those who are supposed to be assigned to them. Otherwise, the content of the indictment proposal that we were able to read in this magazine is more of a list of the wishes of left-wing political rivals and retired members of the Association, what we would like to do with Mr Janez Janša, rather than a description of the alleged facts. In his editorial, the editor of this magazine, which I mentioned earlier, stated only on the basis of indications that there is no longer any doubt that the former Prime Minister, Janez Janša, had committed a crime. Prior to the filing of the indictment, before any conviction, the journalist had already made a judgment and condemned it before clarifying the suspicions and suspicions. This was not done by the institutions that were called upon to do so in a country of law, but was done by a journalist who dared to take the right of judgment into his own hands. Although without evidence, only on the basis of some clues. Before the elections in France, they staged an affair with current President Nicolas Sarkozy. However, there was an affair, interestingly, very quickly explored and also very quickly completed. Everyone was aware that in order to preserve the rule of law and democracy, the matter must be closed and clarified as soon as possible. That's how it's done in healthy democracies. Not with us. Nor is it because obviously we are still living in virtual democracy. In the interest of those who created this affair and launched it into the Slovenian and international public via Finnish television, it is as much an affair as possible to pull it into the next elections. If this doesn't give a satisfactory result yet, then another election. Therefore, it is not possible that the notice of the District Court of Appeal was published just today, three hours ago, before the beginning of this agenda item. Apparently, the left hand in this year's local elections really has to do a terrible job. I hope Patria's affair fix this. Thus, it is not a matter of exploring such subversive affairs. In particular, we are concerned with keeping such planted affairs as much time as possible in the public eye and, above all, maintaining doubts about the integrity of the person. It is precisely because of such inconstant affairs aimed at overcoming a political opponent, irrespective of the fragility of the evidence, that new Commission we are establishing today is needed. For it must no longer happen to us that, in this case, the main actors of the Patria Dragos affair, Milan M. Cvikl, Blaž Zgaga and so on, because of the political interests expected by the tops on the left, they may, through false statements in the testimony of Finnish investigators, mutilate a certain person, in this case Janez Janša, and present him as an immoral and corrupt person, who in this case would even abuse the office of the President of the Government for corruption. What's amazing is that false testimony statements are used, how ironicly, by the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission. It's also this and everything, and what I've said before, that's why this committee is needed. That is why we have also proposed it in the Slovenian Democratic Party and that is why we will, of course, also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u179	Thank you. Your Honor, I know this point is very sensitive, and I will stop anyone who is personally offensive. Otherwise, the allegations of a political option may be offensive, which is why we need a commission to disclose this, such as the insulting statements of the Patria affair regarding individuals in the second political option. Please be patient and listen, but personally, we are not offensive. [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs Irgle was not personally offensive, I did not notice. Mr Tadej Slapnik will now present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u180	Today it is more than obvious that Ivana Janša is afraid. In the Group of Members, we believe that the new policy is that in this case the human saying "Fear is wooed, but there is nothing around it" is not true and that Ivana Janša is a legitimate and justifiable fear. On the other hand, we are not merely guided by the fact that the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office has filed an indictment against five people who have appeared in the media all years since the outbreak of the Patria affair. Today, this court also carried out a trial of the indictment and ordered that all defendants be served. The latter confirms the fact that the lion is the most dangerous when he is wounded. And Janša is obviously badly injured, because in these days we are witnessing strong media offensives, where there are also various political converts that issue books in which it is possible to find praises to Ivan Janša, who is supposed to be the victim of red continuity in this affair, and in party voices, there are articles about political conspiracy. Political analysts of the yellow pedigree, however, argue in one voice that even if Janša is actually accused, this in itself is by no means evidence of his actual guilt, and that the evidence against him is weak. However, before we or we will officially know about the perpetrators of the Patria affair and the crimes of which the indictment was filed, Ivan Janša responded by disqualifying the media and the Attorney General's Office. I quote, "only in the most totalitarian regimes is the newspaper of ruling parties exclusively publishes the indictment before the defendants receive it. I don't know when and where, but apparently there is still a live party or its successor Udbomafija or whatever it is that calls the surviving methods and organizations of Stalinist times in Slovenian, ordered Kos-Hrastar to deal with me," the end of the quote. Let us recall that another year or two ago, John Janša, as one of the more visible actors in the Patria affair, seems to him to be investigating the dumping of sand in the eyes or the search for fog that he did not give. The charge made on Finnish television will never be proven. One hundred thousand investigations can take place and the procedure can last 100 years. At that time, the likelihood that Ivan Janša was right seemed considerable. The fact that the results of the investigation could not be expected with optimism was well taken care of during his reign. For more than a year, the Slovenian police, or Slovenian Interpol, have set up a report on suspicious transactions concerning the acquisition of patries at a bank in Austria. The broadcast of Finnish state television The Truth about Patria confirmed that both Slovenian and Finnish police were informed of the suspected corruption. There is no need to stress how successful both police were in the investigation at the time. Fortunately, most of the burdens of proof were collected by Finnish investigators. At the time, however, the investigation was carried out instead of the police in Slovenia, by the so-called Squeakle Parliamentary Investigation Commission, which questioned potential suspects and related persons. Sadly, though, her work did not end because her work in the National Assembly was constantly hampered and politically disabled. Milan Cwickl had to resign as chairman of the commission just before the meeting with the Finnish investigators. In addition, the Commission of Inquiry, which investigated the remaining military purchases of the Ministry of Robbery and the Slovenian Armed Forces from 1994 to 2007. It was led by SDS Member Zvonko Černač. This continued to claim that armored arms deals for 8x8 were to be agreed in 2003 and that the decision to purchase eight-wheelers would be different if there were no change of authority. The Slovenian police did not start serious investigations until after the broadcast of the Finnish national television Truth about Patria. The investigation, however, did not take place in the full and smooth course until after the change of power at the end of 2008. Until then, we witnessed the inadmissible conduct of Interior Minister Dragutin Matej, who had upset Finnish investigators and the Slovenian public with the disclosure of a list of potential suspects or persons who were supposed to be involved in the patriarchy business and who should be investigated by the Slovenian police. However, Attorney General Barbara Brezigar spent most of her time and energy proving to Finns how it was not possible to conduct an investigation in Slovenia in a way that was led by the Finns. And last but not least, the Attorney General's Office in court even filed an investigation into the author of The Truth of Patria, Finnish journalist Magnus Berglund. In the Group of Members, we really warn that if Slovenia is a state of law, things need to be cleared up, in the charge against those involved, in the proceedings before the Court, as independent and impartial state authorities. It must not be untouchable in Slovenia, even if it is the current or former heads of government. In the state of law, as long as you're charged, you're not guilty. Therefore, the judgment as to whether Ivan Janša is a fair and just sheep or a ruthless wolf, greedy of money, power and the cult of personality, and whether the fate of Janšev is in fact a circle, such as a graphic description of one of his former associates, is left to the court. The same court will also determine whether PM Mr Z, General and Organization, such as Patri’s employees and arms dealers, have appointed Janša’s close associate Krković and Zagozna, and the SDS party have formed a corruption network. That's what the court will prove. It is therefore recalled that the request for an investigation to demonstrate the suspicion of abuse of the official position of public function holders for the purpose of misleading the domestic and foreign public and domestic and foreign investigative authorities and making the criminal investigation more difficult in the case of Patrio or its targeting the non-involved political competitors, in our view, the full abuse of the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation. We are convinced that, in addition to investigating investigators, the main purpose of establishing a commission is to divert attention from the decade's trial. For the time being, everything points out that Ivan Janša will be the first Prime Minister of the Government in Slovenia, who will have to defend himself in court for alleged corruption. It seems unacceptable to us that a parliamentary investigation can be misused to establish a parallel process in which Janša and his SDS boys will be able to make their own right-wings, which are only guilty of preventing the government and Systematic Technicians from making an agreed deal for the acquisition of eight-wheelers, which is why they are the victims of the Slovenian-Finland conspiracy, which was also the result of the 2008 state-level elections. In the Parliamentary Group Really – a new policy does not agree that in Slovenian politics the truth or dilemma, believe it or not, is judged solely by whether you are an adherent or not. We therefore call on the instigators of the parliamentary investigation to stop acting like Fiakarian horses and look a little left and right around them. They will notice that the new director of the so-called Slovenian FBI, Hari Furlan, also warns that parallel power centres are emerging in Slovenia, irrespective of who they come from. Their common denominator, however, is the illegal gain of wealth. This is no longer just a criminal-security problem, but more and more a political one. The diverse ties of so-called economists, criminals and politicians are increasingly threatening the very essence of the rule of law. Such samples are also increasingly evident in the SDS's free-of-charge affair, the Slovenian Week and Express, because we have already encountered involved criminals, media and other tycoons, profiteers, midwives and also sympathizers, as well as leading members of the SDS party. Since I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the vast majority of you are not involved in these corruption networks, I call on you to dismiss your robes once again and, in the interests of the rule of law, allow the true truth about Patria and the parallel power centres to be revealed by an independent and impartial court, that is, the third branch of power in our and your Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u181	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Members of the Slovenian People's Party will vote in favour of the introduction of a parliamentary investigation due to the suspicion of abuse of the official position of public function holders, as indicated by the applicants in the points of the request for the initiation of the investigation. The request is submitted in accordance with our legislation and rules of procedure and must be introduced by the National Assembly. The role of Members is certainly also to monitor, monitor and monitor the work of officials and public institutions. In addition, we believe in the Slovenian People's Party's Group that one of the basic conditions for the good functioning of democracy is good and correct information to the public and especially to the electorate, so that they can participate in decision-making processes most directly through elections. In view of the information and incomplete information in this affair, it is essential that we seek in the National Assembly to seek evidence of the allegations in the investigation or to definitively eliminate the suspicions in order to prevent further damage that this affair has already caused in several ways. One of the harmful consequences is the poor reputation of our young country, which we create with such affairs. The second, no less important reason, however, is to find that the budget is damaged, that taxpayers are harmed or that the suspicion is that this has ever occurred. However, we also wish in the Slovenian People's Party's Group to warn the public and voters, by revealing the background of this affair, that fraud should not affect their decisions not to take account of their arguments without evidence. Members of the Slovenian People's Party on this occasion call for serious consideration in the National Assembly to limit in the future the number of investigative commissions which constitute additional burdens and impede the second regular work of the National Assembly. We are convinced that too many investigative commissions are not effective, not productive, is additionally burdening Parliament's work, and in many cases even a negative public attitude towards the legislative body. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we propose that, with the added powers of the already existing home committee, we can find better solutions by proposing amendments to laws and regulations, which is Parliament's primary task. Existing regular home committees cover all areas and already have their infrastructure, have trained professional colleagues, and it would therefore be more rational and effective to complete and amend the relevant legislation and, in the event of a breach, to carry out their work by investigative bodies and law enforcement bodies, which we also have the capacity and duty of Members and the National Assembly to control and determine legislation for their operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Not for your sake, Mr Ribič, but for the public's sake, I merely point out that the Rules of Procedure on Parliamentary Inquiry provide if an investigation is initiated on request or by signatures of at least 30 Members, that the National Assembly must order it and that it is not voted on. It wouldn't be because you said "we'll vote for" doubts between listeners and listeners that we have any other option than to accept an application for knowledge, no matter what we think about it, because otherwise I agree with what you said later. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u184	Your Honor! Uh, it's not true, it is. Today I have heard so many lies, so many insinuations, so many insinuations, so many instigations that this investigative committee is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u185	Mr Anderlich, there is only one warning, because you are very precise and it is right that you are – you represent the position of the Group of Members, which means that you do not dispute the views of other groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u186	This position was formed during the hearing of the person who presented this request and before the first presentation of the opinion. But no matter what, I wouldn't say anything else, there'll be an opportunity. Initially, I strongly reject all insinuations relating to the Minister of the Interior's account, at the expense of Minister Zalar and at the expense of certain people who have been involved here on a first-name basis, unable to defend themselves and cannot explain their views and conduct in individual cases. As it is said, you have requested a parliamentary inquiry and you will have it, no doubt. Unlike you, who do not want to participate in the parliamentary inquiry on free-of-chargers in 2008, we will participate in this investigative committee. You don't want to explore some things. The answer to a number of questions referred to in this title, which are actually to be investigated today and a parliamentary inquiry, could already be made in 2008. You have abolished the commission of inquiry by the ruling coalition, which is a unique case in the democratic parliaments of the world – to abolish the ruling coalition. Yeah, you were afraid of some results. Now you've turned the rhetoric around and you want some things to get covered up, some things confused, the way you know it. The fact is that, in June 2006, half a year before the signature of the Patri dish was signed, many doubts were expressed in public. There were suspicions that some people were involved. Those who were later business operators, from Mr Črnkovic, were referred to, and there were suspicions that intermediaries were involved in getting the commission for themselves or for their partners or for their customers or for anyone. And it was more or less obvious at that time that this investment would come out in such a way that, for the money that was supposed to be sufficient to buy 135 armoured men, we would not get it. So we will not get 135 fully equipped armoured men for the needs of the Slovenian Army. That's more or less clear now. And this is also evident in the problems faced by the current ministry and the current government in order to change the order because the order was not appropriate. Many things were already said on the table in the so-called Squeaks Commission, but this was not the answer. That didn't suit you, and that's why you went the way you went. There's absolutely no problem in not participating in this committee. On the contrary, due to all perceptions today, it is imperative to introduce this commission and give priority to it and, if you wish, to the other investigative commissions for it. If the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia allows me to participate in this committee, I will be happy. When we are talking about the very meaning of the commissions of inquiry, there is actually an unusual question in this part: How is it that, in two years, when Mr Kos, Mr Roop, Mr Squeakl and some other political function holders, you have not introduced the investigations, but now that none of them are in political office anymore, you want to prove that they are politically involved and so on. They were or they were, but the point is that responsibility is proved to the political authorities when they are. Kos was your favorite, so to speak, every day was on the wallpaper in one way or another. How is it that you didn't try to "screw it" before after that, and maybe you should get rid of it in the National Assembly. At the time, I think the National Assembly was still in charge of appointing the Head of the Anti-Corruption Commission. You're not being very honest here. I don't know why it's only now that he's been practicing in Luxembourg that you're paying him too much when he's in Luxembourg, and you're paying him too much. [[adverts from benches]] Yes, of course, I am defining myself for the act to determine the parliamentary investigation. Yeah, sure. What am I talking about? Yes, I'm explaining and I'm answering, exactly what I'm talking about, what you want us to discuss. And that's what you wrote. You're still blacking out who you want to bring in here and shake him a little bit on the conscience or something else. I believe this myself, but I really believe that, like the Black Commission, in which I think that I also participated in something in the previous term, which was meant to go on six-wheelers, and on hoodies, and on tanks, and I don't know what, we walked around Beer, all around, and eventually it turned out that everything was right, even more, they were involved in orders, in fact those who had been through guns anyway, ever since then, when they were selling, and then legally, and now again under the table after 20 years. I also now believe that there is pressure on justice, on the prosecution, on law enforcement in general, and so on. I can't explain it any other way. Why, just now that some things have started out the way they have to clean up, they begin to unravel, now pressure has to be put on. It's not new manners. It's not something you've made up since Monday or, like, summer vacations. It's been verified. Sometimes it works more, sometimes less, but I really believe it works less. Some other pressure groups, which try to seize some part of history or something else, work on a similar principle. That is why I really want all of us in the National Assembly to act differently than those who demand this investigative commission, to participate in the work of the Commission and to clear things up as soon as possible. However, I firmly believe that we will be the eyewitnesses who first appeared today, not in the request, but in the argument for a speaker, that they will prove themselves as lies, as insinuations, as an attempt to point your finger at others, "hold a thief", for the scoundrel in which they would be potentially complicated, or you have, not seen, heard and so on. This needs to be clarified. I absolutely agree in this part. You have to get to the end, because as much as you threw on the table, it's already out of bounds. You can count on us. But I can't help feeling that even some of the people I meet are close to those who have participated in this work of the century, after all, then the Minister of Defence is now wondering, "Was there really everything around me that I'm hearing right now? Maybe it was true that they took me around." Yeah, some of them are trained to do that. Some other eyewitnesses appear, regardless of the irresponsible work you are doing at work, unless you notice someone driving you thirsty over the water. If you've noticed and you haven't reacted, it's wrong if you haven't noticed, it's wrong. In fact, this is cruel for someone who is in such a situation, but unfortunately for real. I will take a breath after this session because I will have to read twice what I heard within half an hour at the beginning of this point, because I cannot believe that it is possible to talk about people, about some organisations, about the institutions of this country in this way. That's, for my sake, too much. Make all the accusations that you don't like, all the accusations that they're involved in criminal and I don't know what stories, about panics and so on. This is a serious condition, psychologically, probably, if you get into a panic, I don't know. But for some, I've heard that every once in a while they're in a panic, and they need to give up a little bit because they're too warm. All this stuff -- I'd like you to come and say, "Well, that's what this minister did, we have proof. That's what former Prime Minister Rob did. We have proof." No, no, no. You need this; and exactly, I mean, you can't believe exactly what you're reading, that we want to warm up some things further and further, you're doing by introducing an investigative commission into a new one, a thing that we could clear up if we left the Squillion Commission to the end. But who can understand that? Who can believe that three years ago you weren't interested in exploring things, and now you're a god. Me how?Oh, my God! So get to work! We'll help you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u187	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Dusan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! After a detailed reading of the justification for the proposal to introduce this commission of inquiry and today's added justifications, I believe that the establishment of this parliamentary commission will trigger a new affair, with which, of course, we will have a lot to deal with later. Perhaps some will be enlightened and enlightened, but they may be able to relate, as one of the editorials today also mentioned the Owl why the Patria and Owa affair took place at the same time, on time, and on time. This may also be the subject of an investigation by this investigative commission, but it will be later when we come to it. In the message to the Group of Social Democrats, of course, we do not challenge the proposal to set up an investigative commission on the subject of buying eight-wheeled patriots. While it is not possible to oppose the legal and business options and the right of a group of Members to propose an investigative commission, in this case it is necessary to protest in its own way. Indeed, in the previous term, a commission has already been set up, led by Mr Cwickl and engaged in the purchase of eight-wheelers. However, the then ruling coalition with a violation, I repeat, by violating the law and the rules of procedure, suspended the work of this investigative commission and prevented the Commission from adopting the work submitted, the report, even more so, at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly just before the 2008 elections, convened by the ruling coalition on the Patria case, prevented one of the materials for the meeting from being a draft partial report prepared by this investigative commission. This session featured more important newspaper articles than extensive material on this matter, which was and is still in the parliamentary safe today. That the fear of the Squirrel Commission was great is evidence of the moves made by the President of the National Assembly during that period, who did not act only deafly when he did not respond to the call to allow the Commission to work normally, but publicly stated that Mr Squeakl was no longer a member of this Commission. So he took the competence and competence of the National Assembly to assess the composition of such investigative committees, while the administration of the National Assembly was instructed not to follow the instructions of the President of the Commission, Mr Cwickle, but only the instructions of the Vice-President, of course, from the types of SDS. During this same period, she has also lost herself, you will not believe, for a whole year, a well-known and sung Interpol dispatch, which may trigger the activities of some other responsible authorities in the country. In this dispatch, which was later shown, there was unequivocally important information concerning possible bribery in the purchase of patri dishware. In short, all necessary steps have been taken to ensure that no parliamentary investigation has been carried out on the political responsibility of the holders of functions and, on the other hand, of the investigating authorities. Of course, this inhibition could not be sustained for long, since the pressure of foreign investigators, mainly by Finnish investigators, was too strong. That's why we have this investigation. As this investigation appears to be coming into the final phase today, it is obvious that the moment has come, otherwise, with a two-and-a-half-year delay, when pressure has to be exerted on the judicial authorities. And so the re-establishment of this, once established commission of inquiry. Look, it's a coincidence! Today, when an indictment was tabled in the Patria case and, as has already been said here today, when it was apparently overtaken by the view that it was going to proceed to a follow-up procedure, a group of the same parties emerged again, from the same parliamentary groups that had prevented the parliamentary investigation more than two years ago, by means of a proposal to re-establish an investigative commission on Patria. But the purpose and the investigations today, given the justification given, are still not seeking the political responsibility of the current holders of the highest functions involved in this purchase, which is increasingly similar to Swiss cheese, with regard to transparency, legality and, last but not least, economics, but the parliamentary investigation is directed at those who have already warned of these clienteleistic and corrupt anomalies in the past. If the applicant of this commission of inquiry had a very good intention and would have taken this seriously, then, at the second point of the request referring to the suspicion of the holders of public powers, it would not have been stated that those who are named in the request for the establishment of an investigative commission, by misleading and concealing the data, have made the criminal investigation in the case of Patrio more difficult or directed it against the non-involved, I repeat, uninvolved political competitors. Because that's what's happening right now. Those who had scissors and linen in their hands when purchasing patriots who signed contracts under which the signatures were known and who called themselves in this second point to be uninvolved or uninvolved political rivals are now trying to turn these villains into those who were involved two and a half years ago. Moreover, even pushing, you cook conspiracy stories without the basis that these persons in the main sphere of interest, as has been repeated three times today, should expect or receive political and economic benefits from the work of the LDS and SDS. How demeaning? Like the one who concluded the contract, concluded the deal, wrote the contents of the contract, suspected that their signature had been used and used in the use of public funds and misused for his own benefit. Oh, that's so embarrassing. And that is why it is in the public interest to find out who bears political responsibility for this, obviously, corrupt business and this purchase. More than you yourself wrote in the explanatory memorandum to point 6, "We would like to know whether all weapons purchases before 2004 had any signs or signs of a corrupt crime", the end of the quote. Okay. It would be time to pour pure wine to the public, how much and why they spend or spend their tax money. In our view, control in the area of the purchase and supply of weapons is precisely the point where the democracy of the state and the regulation of the control of the defence sector are seen. While trust is a good thing, control is even better when we talk about it when we talk about military matters when we talk about buying weapons. If this is not settled – and obviously this has not been arranged for us – it is possible that the arms market is left to individual private actors, which ultimately leads to the formation of weaponry oligarchies. Therefore, the real political issue that did not need to be determined by the responsibility and possible involvement of public function holders is: Why did the previous government decide to involve an intermediary in the realisation of this great deal? Were the Slovenian state and, on its behalf, the Government and the Defence Ministry really not able to purchase these armoured personnel themselves? This is a real political issue. There's a source of political responsibility. Here are the networks, here are the social networks, because it's about money, for taxpayers' money, which is obviously spent out of business, for services of intervention that were not needed at all in this case. And that's not what it wanted to be about, and it's also not in this request for an investigation that it wants to be identified. Actors and proponents of this commission of inquiry already know this; bad conscience always runs from responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u189	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Blackach, please. On behalf of the candidates? Here's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The views of individual representatives of the parliamentary groups expressed a number of inaccuracies, lack of information and lack of indications. That is why I think that it is right - and the public accompanying this debate - to expect me to respond to them immediately. First of all, in the position of the Zares Group, presented by its colleague Slapnik, there was a whole series of statements which do not concern 99% of what we are talking about today. Today we are talking about an investigative commission that will investigate political responsibility if I say simply. Today we are talking about a commission that will determine whether some of the prominent former political and current representatives of this country are also acting in the background and not only publicly, in front of the public, as the Constitution and the law have commanded them, and thereby create a para-state. Some statements, not only in this case, in other cases, which we have been listening to in recent months by prominent representatives of the ruling government policy, show that in Slovenia the parastats developed by the former LDS government under the tactics of the then LDS Secretary-General, the current President of Zares, are becoming increasingly entrenched. And that those individuals who have created this system to perfection have now restored these networks. And one part of these networks also appears in this matter, or Patria’s affair. Mr Slapnik spoke in particular about a specific case that has now ended in the District Court today, and I must say here that colleague Kumer has confused these stories. We did not place this debate today on the decision of this court, but it is true: very correct and carefully, the court has dimensionalized the so-called test of the indictment – it is a pity that we did not go ahead with the decision, and when it will happen, because this bet would have been – but not that we placed this debate today. This debate today was held by the President of the National Assembly. He knew why he was doing this, put her in the afternoon, Friday, the end of the week, when there was no more voting, when there was no more public attention, he also calculated that this attention would be a little less. However, it was also expected that this famous decision, known to all of us in advance, would be taken by the court today. And Mr Slapnik spoke in particular about this matter and here he staged part of the trial in this case. I don't want to repeat this here, let the court do their business there, as it must. Regrettably, the public is increasingly questioning the independence and autonomy and impartiality of the courts in this country, increasingly. But this is just a business that this court will have to do. In fact, what are the defendants charged with these charges before the District Court? I learned from the media that some of the defendants were trying to receive a gift or something. And the case goes to the District Court. We know that the District Court is judging the easiest forms of crime. It's an attempt to accept gifts. What kind? Is that an hour? Is that a book? Is it just a note in an e-mail when someone was referring to someone without their knowledge? Of course, it will have to be the court, not this National Assembly, but look, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the 280 million Euro deal with Patria, and the 7.5% that the Truth about Patricia wrote in that tragic film and the 21 million Euros that have gone somewhere. But now we are talking about the District Court ruling on this when there is not a single euro. Don't you think there's something very wrong with this whole story? Here we must be disappointed by the distinguished colleague Slapnik, who said that the District Court would assess whether the accused formed a corruption network. No, it won't judge. Because, for the first time, the District Court cannot judge these crimes and the accused are not suspected of such crimes. There's a mistake here as much as you want, deceiving the public as you want, diverting attention somewhere else. Many times this dispatch was mentioned. Interestingly, former Minister Mate instituted a disciplinary procedure against this associate of the police who set up this dispatch and transferred him to another police department and that the current minister took him back to work. And that now this man is back to where he was. Was he now paid for his credits at the time, or what? Everything here is likely to be the subject of this commission of inquiry, but this dispatch was not founded under the influence of the then minister, but apparently some did this on purpose or unintentionally without his knowledge. And the Exercise Commission, you said, didn't finish her job because we stopped her in the then coalition. Don't hold it. Mr. Squeakle was called to the hearing as a witness. He wouldn't do that. As a result, he could no longer be President of the Commission. And you've had enough time to appoint a new commission president within those two, three months, who could complete the work if you're saying that the partial report has already been prepared. That's right. And if it makes you feel any better, we will now be able to draw these papers from this commission back on track and we can proceed to where this commission ended. Nor does he claim that Mr. Squeakle resigned before meeting with Finnish investigators. It was said that the 6x6 commission I led in the previous term did not find anything special. That's not true either. That's what Mr. Anderlich was talking about. On 15 July 2008, the Council adopted conclusions on this Commission, 11 or 12 conclusions. Let me just mention the essential one. At that time, the National Assembly found that the purchases under investigation did not sufficiently respect the principles of economy, the benefits for the country, efficiency, utility and rational treatment of public funds and that the purchase of light armoured vehicles 6x6 in connection with the sale of Systematic Technology 2003 to Viator&Vector – which we will also talk about in this commission of inquiry – and the placing of the Falcon government aircraft on a leasing basis. I expected the competent authorities to investigate these things. Nothing happened. So much for equality before the law that Mr Slapnik spoke about when he said everyone must be equal in this country before the law. If they are all the same, why did nothing happen in these cases when former Prime Minister Rob concluded without a call for tender, without any tender, without any tender or government letter of intent to purchase eight-wheelers at unknown conditions and at unknown prices. How did none of these happen when the six-wheelers were procured without any tender on the basis of a direct order from the company System Technology? If you will recall, we have shown a specific case within this commission of inquiry when the contract at the time of 8 billion tolars was executed within a good month of the time when the tenderer was invited to make the offer. However, no competent authority has strayed in this regard. Then Mr Slapnik is, of course, in error when he speaks of the fact that the former Prime Minister will be the first Prime Minister of the Government to have to defend himself because of alleged corruption. I've already said this before, because it is a similar procedure, as it was brought against your former Minister Erjavac, who you had to get rid of in some way and first put a contract on him there, then trashed, and then finally sued the District Court for a job, something like that, but this trial before this District Court, because of the alleged promise of a gift, we don't know which one. In short, no pressure on the judicial authorities, respected by Mr Kumer, will be exerted by this commission. The judicial authorities should just do their job, but it would be right for the judicial authorities to know whether these illegal commissions were actually paid in this case and, if it were determined that they were, where they ended up and how they would be returned to the public budget. This is what I expect from the judicial authorities and assistance in the work of this commission. In no case do we want to obstruct any proceedings on this matter. And one more thing, remember that in 2008, the National Assembly adopted a decision, and I think that was at the time of the previous government, 9. 9. 2008 The National Assembly adopted a decision stating that in the event of the first confirmed suspicion of corruption, the Ministry of Defence shall immediately use the anti-corruption clause and terminate the contract on the acquisition of eight-wheelers. Why not use it if you believe that these proceedings, which are now brought before the District Court, are of such a nature? Because you know they didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u191	Thank you very much. As you can see, I'm not commenting, and I'm not warning anything. It is very difficult to say what is close, what is very far away, what is exactly the content of the commission of inquiry. Dr. Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am very pleased that you are so tolerant of the debaters today, and I expect this level of tolerance to continue until the end of today's meeting. We're talking about a lot of things today. Not just the subject of this investigation, so I'm going to go wider, because otherwise I can't. Look, we can hear some Members from these parliamentary benches today when they're out of all weapons, they say, "Yeah, you know, what about arms trafficking in 1991, what about those weapons shipments, what about those Depala village stuff?" and so on. These are matters that have been investigated long ago by all the authorities of this country, all the authorities of this country, including many, say, weapons of 1991, parliamentary investigative commissions introduced by the current or similar ruling coalition. When the judiciary has found nothing, and when all parliamentary investigative commissions have found nothing, the handy weapon against Janez Janša is still the same, "what about those weapons?" I am sure that many of us will be in a deep retirement and that we will no longer be here when someone else in the National Assembly, if they have the same rhetoric, in 10 or 15 years they will be saying, "What's the Patria thing?" Although from everything, as it turns out, there will be nothing in this part. In fact, I am very happy about what happened today at the District Court in Ljubljana. Absolutely glad, because, look: "On September 1, 2008, Janez Janša accepted the bribe." Let's move on. Then all these actors deny it or turn around, and they say, "let's get it." If what the media are writing is true, today and in the past, we have now agreed to try that someone, namely John Janša, should accept the bribe. Yeah, bravo! A terrible evolution, how this has developed in two years! Now we're on trial. However, if we get to where this money is, and the investigating and judicial authorities have a chance, because if they hold the data we have today, the media, he does not have the indictment itself, as you know, then it is likely that one more thing has to be found: that nothing has been found in his SDS account or account. So I say, "Where is this?" And let us hope that this will be found in court proceedings. Still, I'd like to walk back a little bit. In Slovenia – I have to go back, I am very sorry – we are talking about the so-called soft transition in the 1990s. However, it must be made very clear that this soft transition, which was made by the former Demos, later in 1992 to 2004, we have the orthodox rule of the left, with all the attempts in all spheres of social life to preserve the "liquid" from before 1990. That's a de facto fact. Let me remind you of one thing. Today we can read on the websites of certain parties that the United List of Social Democrats has carried out independence in cooperation with Demos. Ladies and gentlemen, a disaster! Let's move on. Absolutely from the 1992 arms affair, the Depalas affair, the Vič-Holmec affair, which we know very well, to the present so-called Oklepniki affair, the Four-wheeler or Patria, it is the exact same thing. There is no evidence, at least for past affairs, tested in all, in the judicial branch of government, in all the commissions you led that anything was wrong. And you ran it, and the independent judiciary was on trial in that case. And the same story appears to us today. There's only one goal to come here. This goal is the fear and trembling of the left hand, which is written by John Janša. Let me summarize the words of a journalist, who I will apply to today's situation in the left political option or in many individuals, I do not claim in all but many. This journalist simply wrote: "Most of the leftist politicians dream." In fact, we often dream of what we want, what is pleasant, what we dream of. And we often try to endure this dream into real life. But the fact is that you often, today, think not all of you sitting here, but many politicians on the left, dream of Janez Janša in a career dress behind bars. But the problem is that between these dreams, which are desires, pious and so on, and reality fiction, there is no real connection. And that's why these affairs keep going on and on and on and on and on and on and I believe they will. On what, therefore, this ruling policy, which runs from 1992 to 2004, was based, in 2004 the electorate recognized corruption, clientism, lobbying, pocket care, private, and so on, and in particular the concern for the continuation of the preservation of power, in particular this. And today, what I'm going to explain later, is the same story, the exact same story. There's no difference. All the samples are the same. However, it happened that year 2004-2008, which meant the fear of the left. And already in 2006, the affair, if not earlier, was set in motion somewhere, the Owl you were talking about today. And let me remind you here of something else. Owl's affair is clear. A journalist who is today a member of a corruption commission, the anti-corruption commission, writes that Janez Janša and Ivo Sanader were negotiating incidents. Deal! And we've been rolling this story for two years or it's been rolled by journalists who favor the Left. Both of us with Mr. Kumr, for example, because we had this technical option, we physically checked things out on the spot and found that this was a lie. And later Parliament here also adopted a decision which shows that this is not true. The decision is clear, so that's not true. But, for two years, the roll thing is, "you've been making deals." But we listened to everything, and we know what time it is. And Parliament has confirmed that. Well, they didn't make any deals. The journalist wrote down a lie that Tone Rop said. Whether he's been misled or not, I don't know if he should take it any further. But that's the way it is. Of course, the Patria thing is coming soon, for all these investigative committees, soon enough. But all of this does not have a significant impact on the results of that government and the general human opinion. At the beginning of July, the SDS runs 7 or 8% of the polls conducted by left-wing newspapers, not our own internal newspaper. But it happens — what? This is the end now, and this has to be done, this is a clear story, and it happens to Patricia. And Slovenian voters, Slovenian citizens are not getting what they should receive under the rules of some normal European democracy, means facing two programmes. Now the ruling political option has not published, has not come to the media and has not faced the then Prime Minister Janša with any programme and there has been no confrontation. But there were confrontations on the subject and discussions on the subject of Patria, which was a pre-election topic, and so it is also due to this issue that the ruling political option came into power. But the success of that government from the empty cash register in 2004, four empty cash registers in 2004, all four empty cash registers became full. 40,000 Slovenians got a job. Wages grew faster despite high inflation. In the National Assembly, as we can see today, it is true that there was a Member sitting there, such a blonde was screaming about hunger, about poverty, she was collecting bills and so on and sending them to the President of the Government, all with a desire to create public opinion and pressure. Today, this is written by her former coworker, and we can read about it in books. Well, that was the atmosphere back then. But let's move on. It's been said to be a bad guy and so on, but I'm not gonna do it. Let's keep moving, let's not waste time. Look, the ruling coalition is doing the same story today. It's the exact same story. You create, you create a lobby of lawyers, you create a lobby of notaries, you create many other lobbies, you remove, look at him, colleague of Marinič because he disturbed you. But he's an ex now, he's not the chairman of the commission anymore, so today you've set a new target – that's me. That's me. For today you have sent me a letter in which you urge me not to treat those darknesses, stickers and so on and so on and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, the goal is not to dedicate anything, nothing sacred, all lies can be written. In that paper you sent me today, you wrote down that the SDS and I, at the press conference, are attacking the decision of the independent branch of power, the courts. It's a big lie! At the press conference, I said that we had nothing to do with the court's decision, not with it, but with the Ministry of the Interior and the Attorney General who did not do our work, according to work. It's a big lie! The kind that happened in the case of a colleague of Marinič. But I'm not afraid of it, I don't have any problems with it, but it obviously started. I'm very happy if, Mr Anderlich mentioned Harry Furlan and his views, I'm going to get some material and see what he's saying, but if he says that about these informal groups and so on, influential people and so on, he's right. But I'm afraid he didn't mean lawyers, notors, and everything you do, you're legally creating, but that he meant something else. But if that's what he meant, he should be congratulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u193	Mr. Gorenak. Unfortunately, we didn't make it. By the way, yours. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u194	What is it?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u195	the assumption that I will not interrupt you [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u196	Stop my time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u197	and mine [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u198	Time, time, time! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u199	Wish I didn't warn you. [[...]] Please. Most [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u200	Time! I'm sorry for the moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u201	Now, let me just say it to the end. Most of the things you're saying have nothing to do with the request for an investigation. But it's your analysis or psychoanalysis or political analysis, and I don't know what it is, but it has nothing to do with the investigation. Be Kind [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u202	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u203	At least speed up your analysis. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u204	I'll speed it up. Please, if you'll just give me time back where he was. Please give me back my time! However, I must tell you that everyone else has spoken beyond the full context of these matters and that I do not depart from others, but I am afraid you are having a hard time hearing this, Mr Vice-President. Let me finish. Look, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u205	I always listen to you with pleasure.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u206	Nice to meet you. We'll have a chance for two more years.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u207	But what do I think about it, and I can't explain it as President?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u208	You can continue to enjoy yourself. Look, lobbying. You have reached out to the judicial branch of power. And in the harshest way in this hall, a few months ago. You will also submit — you already have — to the judicial branch of power. A few months ago, I'm talking about the creation of lobbying, a little more than, I don't know when, at the last meeting of the National Assembly, we decided on the President of the Supreme Court. He announced the criterion, "because he issued a judgment of pardon in the case of Paula Rupar, is not appropriate." Yes, ladies and gentlemen, if he's a criminal judge for 30 years, he's probably issued some kind of excusable and judgmental judgment on the left, right, career or whatever you want. And that's why he's not fit. However, I must warn you, those who should have listened to me will not have to send a proposal to the National Assembly for a new President of the Supreme Court, who in 1990 said, "JLA if you beat Slovenia." And this will be the real president?Oh, my God! "JLA wants to beat Slovenia" means she'll straighten it out like a rug. Well, that'll be the one. And those who walked according to a secret official letter to visit dead people at the border when they were shot in the forehead for a misdemeanor in accordance with a secret official letter. That'll be the one. Ladies and gentlemen, there's still time to think! Of course, it is also a direct conscience with the past, as also demonstrated by the President of the State with Ertl's decorations, the appointment of the Pratnik journalist to the commission and so on. Look, events can be predicted in advance, and I'll try to do that with one sentence. One hundred percent guarantee is that everything we are witnessing today will continue. So, the paper first publishes all the evidence, the defendant has nothing in his hands. I'm talking about Janez Jansa. He's got nothing in his hand. He can read anything in the paper. I assure you that will be the case in the future. Normally, who's there? Of course it is. And, of course, it's about getting ready with a lot of people who know what's going on in the Supreme Court, from official sources, and three weeks before a person logs in that he's an outsider or he doesn't have the right options. I'm talking about Mr. Shorley, of course. A reporter writes this three weeks before she's crossed the threshold or they haven't seen her in the Supreme Court for a long time, but she knows what she's talking about. At the same time, he knows that the new candidate is the one everyone likes. She already knows that. Don't paint me! What's Minister Zalar doing? He plays a dirty role and nothing else. So, in order to finish, the commission of inquiry, which we propose, has to do its work. Do your job. And if so, then we will come to a clear realization that the dreams you have are not reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u209	Thank you very much. That there will be no misunderstandings, Mr. Tanko, it's okay with the clock. Is it okay that you won't be deprived in time? As much as you want. Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer has a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u210	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to fix it. Really, I don't know if we were in the same mandate in this investigation, we were on opposite shores, but the parliamentary commission adopted the next decision on the Janša-Sanader affair, "you were talking and negotiating, but they didn't agree". So we have the right formulation. What we accepted, because we couldn't prove that you had an agreement. Otherwise, what I was saying and the first to mention the Owl was yours, which represented the position of the Group of Members, is irrelevant to this affair of Owl, Janša-Sanader. The entry of unauthorized persons into the premises of Sova, archives and so on in November 2006 is very important for Patrio. That has to be linked to Patrio. And that's what I was talking about. Maybe someone's gonna get an association or something with some paper. And second of all, about the dispatch. You know what, this Sector for International Cooperation – and I don't want to lecture anyone – is not an operational body of the Police. The operational body, unfortunately, is the Hopava Criminal Police and this SMS only intervenes and they prepare an answer. And that answer came in a year. Of course, Ingerenco has the Chief of Police, who has apparently introduced this control at the wrong end in his sector.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u211	Thank you very much. On behalf of the motioner, please, Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u212	I am grateful to Mr. Kumru for confirming what I have said that you have covered up under the present authority of this man, who apparently purposefully placed this dispatch at the time, now that you have taken it back. With regard to this story about the Owl you are talking about, Mr Kumer, as you and I know very well, we have talked about this several times at a meeting of the commission in which we are both in charge of the intelligence and security services, that Owl had no role in monitoring this so-called affair or the arms business of Patria.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u214	Firstly, we have never worked together in the previous term in an investigative committee which has taken these decisions, which we discussed to clarify here. Some things, of course, we spoke later. And once again, I don't even know the person who this is, but I read from the public media that the person under control and also the Minister of the Interior and the Chief of Police in this Chamber in 2008 said that they had put in place control of the SMS sector and not the Criminal Police Office.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u215	Thank you very much. If possible, I'd like to ask you to stop these controversy, because it's not about questions that are directly related to the agenda. Mr. Chernač, you can speak as a proponent. You can't have a replica because you've already had one. Are you going to talk as a proponent? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u216	I don't know. Maybe some people don't hear well. I have spoken of the fact that we are now sitting together in the Commission for the Control of Intelligence and Security Services and that, in this mandate, we have heard from the Director of this Commission that they have in no way followed the arms trade in the case of Patrio. Then I find that you probably don't hear very well and that you didn't hear the stories of Robb-Sanader at the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Yuri has the floor. He's not here. He's not going to discuss it. Mr. Sylven Tiny, he won't discuss it. Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will stick to the request for a parliamentary inquiry order and I will start by telling my judgment on this request. In my opinion, this is the most brutal abuse of the Institute of Parliamentary Investigation in the history of Slovenian parliamentary democracy. And I'll tell you why. Article 2 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation provides, I quote, "if a case is already under way in criminal proceedings, this is not an obstacle to not being under the jurisdiction of the DZ, a parliamentary investigation shall also be carried out". And in the case of this commission of inquiry that we're talking about today, it's not only that it's not an obstacle, it's a key reason. In my opinion, this parliamentary inquiry should never have been set up. Why? At least for two important reasons arising from the competence of the parliamentary commission of inquiry. I will explain because some obviously do not understand or have misread the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and Rules, or have not heard. First time. The Commission of Inquiry shall have the same powers of inquiry and examination as the judicial authorities. And a second time. All authorities are required to provide the Commission of Inquiry with documentation relating to the subject matter of a parliamentary inquiry. This parliamentary commission of inquiry, as has already been said by the motioners today, is being established for one key reason, namely to obtain relevant documentation. All courts, all other bodies are required by the parliamentary investigative commission to provide all relevant material. Colleague Slapnik has already started quoting one statement, and I will finish it by saying, "The prosecutor of Hrastareva was also on duty during the Depal village affair, when Drago Kos, who, in other words, represented himself as Peter of the Owl, was urging a police officer to provoke Slovenian Army soldiers to threaten and record journalists" and so on. So one of the key people we are talking about today responded. So what's the problem? My friend Kumer told me earlier. If you really wanted to investigate this matter to the end, to the bottom, to gnaw it to the bone – you had this opportunity more than once, the ideal opportunity was in the previous term, when the investigative committee led this infamous Milan Martin Cvikl – and what the SDS and the opposition did then when Milan Martin Swickl, with the investigative commission, came too far – you blocked the work of the commission. You've blocked the commission's work. I repeat, yes, you've blocked it. Why? You've done a very clever trick. Milan Martin Swickl, to be clear, could not have been a member of that commission. Why? Because three of her members, Robert Hrovat - SDS, Victory Jelinčič - SNS and Joseph Bajc - SLS, demanded his testimony. Logically, it's a good trick. That's how you get rid of the president. Because then, the President of the National Assembly, Mr France Cukjat, found that this would be contrary to article 3 of the Law on Parliamentary Investigation if Milan Martin Cvikl remained president. So you did everything you could to prevent this commission from ending its work. You did it. If we had a sincere wish and a sincere intention to get to the bottom of this matter – then you had the opportunity, when you talk about it today, what you wrote in your request for a parliamentary inquiry order, all of this is a simple bluff. It's just a bluff. You've had this opportunity, you've abused the parliamentary commission of inquiry, as you're about to do again. One more time, all the way. You write in your request for a parliamentary inquiry order that "let the impact of insinuations and unproven assumptions be investigated" and so on. I have to say, I don't understand at all. 'Examine the impact of insinuations and unproven assumptions', not to mention that in your request for a parliamentary inquiry you have mentioned some famous questions which I can now answer in one second and my colleagues, too, because you have already answered them yourself today. You answered them yourself. I must say that I do not understand why you are setting up a parliamentary commission of inquiry for something you already know the answers to because you have already responded to them today. Interestingly, in his explanation, the applicant has already expanded the subject of this parliamentary inquiry and has already gone wider. Not long ago, a few days ago, the leader of the largest opposition parliamentary group objected to us if we did not want to spread the subject of another investigative commission. I am challenging the applicants of this commission of inquiry, which we have on the table today. Be different. You will have the opportunity to distribute the subject of your parliamentary commission of inquiry. I want to know how you're going to expand the subject of this investigation, because you're advocating that things go wide, to look at all the elements of the story. Now you'll have an ideal opportunity. Previously, there was a desire for coalition members to participate. I must tell you that there are candidates for this investigative committee in our parliamentary group as much as you want. No problem. And in other coalition groups. The candidates are as much as you want, with perfection you won't have any problems. Trust me. And speaking of previous investigative committees, you already mentioned Milan Martin Cwickle, so did I. What happened to the actors of this story who falsely testified before the parliamentary commission of inquiry who lied. Nothing happened, and the guilty confession is criminalization. Nothing happened. Are you going to call these same actors who lied to Parliament before the commission of inquiry again, call them to account, press charges for false confession? Because you're saying you're going to end all these stories. Then you talk, you mention the former governments, and so on, and all that has been taken advantage of is all that you're saying in your request for a parliamentary inquiry. Whose government signed a contract with Patrio? It's the government of Janshe. Whose ministers? Janshe's ministers. Who are the defendants being sued? Against Janshem's men or against anyone else? Everything else has nothing to do with it. And I'm gonna do it again. Only one purpose is to set up this commission of inquiry. This is to get relevant documentation. I am confident that you will appoint someone who knows very well the Law on Parliamentary Investigation and the Rules of Procedure, or someone who is out of office, and it is also concerned in some way, has been the victim of dark forces in the background and I do not know what. Now he'll have a chance to prove himself again and show how good he is. But there's one more thing that's interesting. I must say that today I was surprised by the performance of the Slovenian People's Party Members, who suddenly felt the need for such suspicions to be thoroughly explored. Very interesting. In another commission of inquiry, however, they felt that the investigative commissions were too much to be set up and so on. Very interesting. Now they feel the need to search things to the ground. As it is said, I do not think that this parliamentary commission of inquiry should be set up by Parliament because it is a pure abuse. You know why you need documentation, you know that. You also know how you will use this documentation, against whom you will use it, and so on. And when you talk about who in the past is supposed to be doing dirty work — what you are doing now is really dirty, really.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. [[He's gone.]] Mr. France Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. Well, I would like to see that the content of the parliamentary inquiry is being discussed and intended. According to the Patria affair, there are two elements, namely the suspicion of corruption, the suspicion of receiving rewards or bribes, that is one problem, but another problem is how this affair occurred, and whether those who discovered it were correct or there were many infidelities, insinuations, deliberate deceptions and so on. Suspicion of whether or not there was a bribery was indeed the work of the Squeaks Commission. I must say that, in the previous term, the problem with this committee was really great, especially because some of them fled this commission, they no longer wanted to participate because of the non-democratic leadership of the Commission, due to the authoritarian, impossible leadership of this commission by Mr Cwickle. The representative of New Slovenia and the representative of DeSUS have left, Mr Rezman can also confirm this, none of the SDS, ours have been patient. If we connect with Mr Squeakle's involvement in the design of this affair, it is likely that the Commission has therefore been set up to obtain documents, data and the possibility of creating this affair. All right, so much for the intro. With regard to the issue to be addressed by this Commission, the following is essential. By the time of Mr Janš's term of office, weapons had been purchased without a call, the public did not know what we had bought, where we had bought, what we had given, for example, to the hoodies of Israel, where we knew who was involved in these unfortunate hoodies, and so on. And even in the previous mandate in 2003, when it came to a decision at the time of the Government of Robb in order to buy themselves into the acquisition of patriots, because it was not invented by Janša's government to buy, there was no invitation to tender. There was also an agreement, a letter of intent with Systemic Technology, Mr Pavčko that she would take over and take part in this, as there was no invitation to tender. And by that time, the intermediaries, the names we now hear from the intermediaries, had already worked before this government, Wolf, Riedel and so on. And on the basis of these intermediaries, the representative of Patrie had already had information that those who made the decision were covered. To be covered means to cover in the billboards that bribery is arranged to run. That's what Patricia got. And at the time, Mr Rob and Mr Drnovšek were the persons to be covered. But then there was a change of power in this unfortunate Patria. And then there was a public invitation and then there was a government president who didn't want anything to do with it, with Patrio. And then probably these intermediaries kept saying to Patria "we'll fix it, it's just a problem" and it's documented "the problem is that we have to get to the Prime Minister or some J," I don't know if it was Jerič, or Jerman, or Jerajev, or something. You're going to say, "What do you think about this J, because our J sitting here has nothing to do with Patrio." Janša had nothing to do with Patrio, either. If we could prove it, I'd have been in custody a long time ago. And now this investigation will explore, I hope that once it explores how these instigations occurred, this insinuation, this mud that was launched, will be artificially launched, and this bang had to happen just before the elections. At the time we were unable to establish an investigative commission, because our government ended, so now it is clear in this mandate. And why is this investigation necessary? In fact, this toxic situation in Slovenia should be resolved once. The Court does not deal with this, it will not deal with this, with the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, with the press, with all the topics suggested by the Finns, how and what direction. The court will not deal with this. But it's a thing that poisons our political space so much. I fear that those who have prepared this together with the judiciary will persist and the matter will cool off and again in two years' time the matter will come to a day without any conclusions, which will be spoken and insinuated. This creates a tremendous mistrust or, so to speak, on the side of those who have given birth to this affair and initiated it and dressed it in some political option, they believe such clues and are convinced that John Janša received the bribe. They're sure, I believe, because that was the point. On the other hand, those we know, who know and know all these backgrounds, and these people are getting more and more, are convinced that this is a real instinct, planned insinuation. What does this create? With such ease, the continuation of civil war, the continuation of defamation, is being created. This poisons the political space so that we should get real once. And this, look at this example, we were talking about the Concentrations recently. What's the problem? Guido said the same thing, and then I took off. How is it that the Minister of the Environment suddenly changed the regulations on light pollution? Suddenly, the inspector banned the access of trucks that are always driving across that road in columns to crash to avoid demonstrations. Suddenly, overnight, there was a programme to invest that the state budget something to do with this project, so you can see that the system works when you want to achieve some goal. [[...]] There was also a system set in motion here, and I'm going to call it the Parade, which has led this lie to this extent that many people believe. This is what I will repeat over and over again: it is poison for the Slovenian state. This is the operation of the behind-the-wall elements until we get rid of it until we do more political ethics and morals here in the judiciary and all, so long that Slovenia will only deepen into its abyss.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u221	Thank you. Matevž Frangež – will not discuss. Mr Bogdan Barovic – will not discuss. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I myself have comments on this act on the appointment of this Commission of Inquiry, but I hear that the Legislative and Legal Service has assessed this act as appropriate. However, if I compare the content of this act with what the Law on Parliamentary Investigation says, of course, I cannot somehow bring these two texts together, because the parliamentary inquiry under Article 1 of the Act "is established in matters of public interest to determine and assess the actual situation which may be the basis for the decision-making of the National Assembly" and so on. And here you are already faced with a number of insinuations, some assumptions, some things that have little to do with the actual situation. But I'm not here in this place right now to judge that, obviously. This act on the appointment of this commission of inquiry or parliamentary inquiry is before us and will obviously be adopted by the National Assembly, because we are legally obliged to do so. It is interesting, however, that the opposition in the middle of this mandate has already set up a fifth investigative commission, and if the opposition continues to pick up such a pace, the investigation commissions will be grumbled by the end of the term of office in our Parliament. Any member of the opposition will be able to participate in several investigative commissions at least if he has not already presided. In short, it'll bloom 100 flowers. The opposition will prove all possible conspiracies, drive out all possible perpetrators, all of whom, of course, come from or near the current coalition, even though they have been dead for some time, or in concrete dirty works, and could not possibly have been among them, because they have simply left functions long ago, where they could have had any impact on the progress of these concrete works. So it's another commission that's going to work on the principle of "catching thief," and our southern brothers call these methods of action a figurative "watering system". Those who seem to understand this language, since you quoted someone earlier, will have no problem figuring out what that river actually means. But today it is more than obvious that proposing this commission of inquiry is nothing more than an expression of great distress, concern and great anxiety for the applicants. It is even more obvious that there is undisclosed pressure on the state prosecutor who has put forward specific indictments and unconcealed pressure on the future judge or judge who will judge or judge the case. Apparently, this is a pre-disclosure of the state's attorney's office and a court to judge. Does it have to be said once again that it is unacceptable that the position of the proposed parliamentary group has highlighted that concrete indictments are politically motivated? By the way, thank God, if this is just politically motivated indictments, which are not based on any evidence or on credible indications, then the whole thing will simply go away. In particular, since we can again count on the alertness of the Attorney General, who will do anything to raise the issue in public, remember the issue of the Bulmastifs, which you keep mentioning, so that in the public opinion it is a matter of thorough investigation and investigation from every possible point of view. So, what is this concern about politically motivated indictments anyway? At the same time, the public has a growing lack of confidence in the judiciary. That's what one of the proponents said today, too. So the public has less confidence in the judiciary. Was this to be said just in case? Yes, not because it is already being discredited in advance for the accused, but because it may be an unpleasant judgment. We'll see. I'll bet that's what this is about. You put a lot of pressure on the way to say, "what, we don't admit this court, because it is already known in public that the judiciary no longer trusts this public." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u224	Thank you very much. I have already had the opportunity to say, and I also repeat briefly that I know that I have no right to influence the establishment of an investigative commission, and I accept it as a fact. However, I am announcing that I would nevertheless express my dissatisfaction if you would also like to protest the proposal to set up this commission of inquiry. Firstly, because of the fact that the Commission of Inquiry, and this was very clear from your discussions today, it sets up to evaluate the functioning of the judicial authorities in the case of the suspects in the Patrio case. Who are the suspects will tell the court if they are. What their possible guilt is, the court will say, but the purpose of this commission of inquiry, according to its clear content and after what you have said, is to evaluate everything the court will do in this regard. Second. An investigative commission is being set up – and this is what colleague Dara Lavtijar Bebler warned about issues that are not and cannot be the contents of the commission of inquiry – to determine the impact on the results of the 2008 elections in order to determine the extension and difficulty of the criminal investigation in the case of Patrio or its targeting against the non-involved political competitors. In short, someone's pre-involved and guilty, but someone's not involved. It is established with a view to misleading the domestic public and concealing conflicts of interest for foreign investigators. And it is established by the suspicion of the abuse of the official position of the holders of public functions in order to abolish the National Assembly. I don't understand this at all, because it is probably about those Members and Members who voted in the Anti-Corruption Law, and I think we need to be sanctioned because, as Members and Members of Parliament, we voted differently than you, ladies and gentlemen in the SDS, you represent. But this is probably too big for you, and I suggest you at least think about this work. And finally, I know that it is twisted and irrelevant – only those who have read this text of the investigation and understood it deserve not one but some diplomas, and this not only from the law, but also from the Slovenian language, but also from anything else, because it is so impossible for the text that, in my opinion, the National Assembly should not consider it for that reason, but should require that it be clearly designed that there will be no doubt as to what the content of the investigation is. Make it clearer! Finally, let me say that, in all this, it shows how badly we have affected the functioning of the National Assembly, how we, with our mutual debates, warn ourselves not to create tensions between us and create them through each other's debates. I must say that this is not at all good for the political situation in Slovenia and our Parliament. About the soft passage. I advise you to read the opening address of President Buchar on 27 May 1992 in Parliament, and you will learn from his point of view what a soft transition is and who did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The word is Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u226	Thank you very much. As far as the law is concerned, the acts that have been tabled would remind Mr Potrč that no law has yet been tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party in which the foresters are missing and so on what we have been receiving here. Otherwise, look, the Patria affair that you produced in 2008, and it was probably already in 2007, is something that you all are very sorry for. Because it is true that at the time it helped you to win the elections with some minimal difference, you had the opportunity to form a government, a coalition, which is in fact the worst government, the worst coalition so far, because you are not in line with all the expectations or challenges that Slovenia is facing today. And this is now an opportunity for the public to recognize what you are and what you can do. But, of course, you must be very, very sorry for that right now. The first part of the story, Patria, was placed in public a bad month before the 2008 national elections. You know exactly why – you did it, congratulations! You confused the public, although many people who were then familiar with this creation did not believe or could not believe their ears that such a thing could have been true. However, some have fallen for it. We had already predicted, because we knew that there was no evidence, because such insinuations as they were in that movie and in your magazines, there was no evidence of this and we knew that there was nothing to be extracted from it, but we had already foretold a second part of that story. And that was already predicted before the 2010 local elections. And I'm not saying we're some kind of fortune teller. However, it is likely that so many people now have the impression that it was right before the local elections that it was again through the Youth officer — and some other aiders along the way — that this story was re-placed in order to try to influence people now, so that those who have not just understood all of these plots, when deciding at the local elections, will again fall prey to this lie. And I'll tell you now that part three of this story is probably scheduled for 2012, unless there's an early election. The third part is definitely foreseen for 2012. And here is the key reason why we decided to set up such an investigative commission. The public wants it, not us. A lot of people I talk to ask me, "so let me tell you what's going on with Patria's affair, why don't you investigate it, what the prosecution is doing, what the judiciary is doing..." And here I would ask all those who say, "With this you want to hinder investigative authorities, the prosecution, the judiciary, you put pressure on them." Yeah, what's that? What, though, does the commission of inquiry have to press, or what powers does it have to influence the work of the prosecution, the work of the court? None! Perhaps some prosecutor on this basis would want to move a little faster on his own, if not the other, to at least admit in public that there is no evidence that there are no documents, or else this story will drag on, drag on, drag on, drag on. And here are those assumptions or I'm going to say the floods that one of the predecessors said earlier, that the purpose of this investigative commission is to get us those evidences that are burdensome for some, probably from our client or anywhere else. Look, we'll probably get those documents you're gonna want to give us, not the ones we're gonna ask for. If that's the case, I can tell you the case. Has the requested documentation been forwarded to the Commission under examination, where the new 7 or 8 thousand have been deleted? Minister Kresal's data was not given. [[advertising from the hall]] She didn't. Mrs. Zupevcheva, make sure the FBI doesn't invite you to be one of the top researchers with them, and then I'll ask you to write me how we can write a request for Mrs. Kresalova to take this into account. [[advertising from the hall]] Then it's probably gonna be. You'll probably have some other influence here. Otherwise, it also states colleague Anderlich why this investigator is now. As I said, because now is the time, the local elections will be behind us in 14 days, and let us hope that by 2012 there will be enough solid evidence in public, not with this investigative committee, but with this affair that you have been preparing in 2007 and 2008 nothing. The extent to which it was established at the time when Mr Swickl led this investigative committee, that it had been just before that only a few other conclusions were adopted and all those irregularities were disclosed to the public. Look, if there was really something about why you didn't set up investigative commissions after winning 2008, and we would continue this story, it would probably be the result before us in January 2009. It wasn't any of that. Why is the Minister of Defence, Mrs Jelusičeva, none of what you're reading and Mr Erjavac and all those who ran the ministry in the previous term why can't she really confirm any of that? Because, in fact, there was no concrete evidence. And before I finish, there's only one more sentence in this book that has 10 faces on it. I believe that at least 7, 8 of these faces in the National Assembly will be able to say more about this. But the sentence given here by Mr. Erjavec can say anything. Mr Erjavec is not a member of the SDS, he was never a sympathizer of the SDS, he was never in favour of the SDS, he is a member of your coalition, and he said here: "With the eight-wheel contract Janez Janša has nothing. He never asked any questions, he didn't advise." Then let them create a verdict for the electorate and the electorate for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Replica, Melita Župevc, please. Correction of incorrect indication.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u228	That's right. Mr. Grill didn't understand, and I'll do it again. That the purpose of your commission of inquiry is to meet, to gain documentation. And not Mr. Grill, not from us, because we don't have it. The Commission of Inquiry will request this from the court and other relevant authorities, the police and the prosecution. Not us. We don't have these documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The word is Eva Irgle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u230	Thank you so much for saying that. Although I have already said most things in the introduction, in the position of the Group of Members. However, before that, a respected colleague from SD said that it was for me to establish this committee to obtain documentation. Indeed, the purpose of this commission is also to obtain documentation so that we can finally find evidence of a famous bribe that all of you, together with different actors in this Patria affair, have been looking for for for three years and nothing from them. And that's the problem. And if Mr Berglund in Finland was unable to find evidence of bribery, and if Mr Kos in Slovenia was unable to find evidence of bribery, nor was your esteemed colleague Mr. Cwickl able to find evidence of bribery, and if these evidence was not able to find even the prosecution, the judiciary, the law enforcement authorities in Slovenia, then, respected colleagues and colleagues, we are obliged to do so to finally find evidence of this accusation that the Prime Minister of the Government, former Prime Minister Janez Janša, has received a bribe. We owe it to you, and I hope you'll help with that. If you have not been able to disclose this evidence so far, then of course we must find it, and we also need this documentation, my fellow Members, to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the word, please. Excuse me, excuse me. The word is Jože Tanka, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u232	Thank you so much for saying that. There is a lot of anxiety in the coalition, and even Mr Potræ happened to overlook that his colleague sitting next to him is also exploring something about the impact on the 2008 elections. And he didn't find it strange that you set up this commission of inquiry. As far as the reasons are concerned, there are many of them, dear colleagues. One reason is also that Mr Kos did not wish to complete the 2008 work report in the chapter on his work in this external work. On numerous visits abroad, he was also interviewed by Finnish investigators, gave information and carried documentation, and met with them. However, at the request of the Commission, which reported on its work, which gave only its annual report, he did not wish to complete his report. He didn't want to complete his report, and, fellows, just remember what a reptile it was then that came upon his colleague Marinič, what you accused him of, what you asked of us, what you gave to the Constitutional Court. Nothing could be judged by the Constitutional Court because it was all properly adopted and used. And since this was no longer possible, you also passed a new law on integrity, with which you simply terminated this commission. The parliamentary commission led by the opposition, which by law belonged to the opposition and had the sole task, the sole task, of overseeing the work of the anti-corruption Kosovo Commission, was only to request that the Kosovo report be supplemented with information on its work in 2008 in relation to the Patria case. A fundamental, crucial reason – you staged everything from the diploma on and on and on, you arranged everything, respected colleagues, and since there was nothing you could have done, you could have prevented these additions to the report, you terminated the commission. And unfortunately, it's hard to deny. This is difficult to deny, this is a fact that is known to everyone in this country, you have done so in this mandate. Now that, and in the mandate, when transparency should be particularly exposed, you have abolished the report on the work of someone in a difficult area.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u233	Thank you very much. As a proponent? Yes, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u234	I am just correcting or explaining to Mr Tank that I have not overlooked the contents of the investigation, but there are two essential differences. You talk about the abuse of the official position of public officials, you don't tell us how, in our country, we are talking about illegal conduct that, in the election campaign, had the opportunity to influence the electoral campaign through illegal financing and the launch of some media. There's a significant difference here, maybe you'll notice it too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The word is Dusan Kumer, please. I'm sorry, I thought you were, like, a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u236	Perhaps, first of all, a few words about what has now been said by Mr Potrč that this is our request to introduce an investigative commission beyond the provisions of the law and the Rules of Procedure on parliamentary investigation. Article 1 of the Act states that 'parliamentary investigations in matters of public interest shall be carried out to identify and assess the actual situation which may be the basis for the decision of the National Assembly on the political responsibility of public function holders to amend legislation in a particular field and other decisions of the National Assembly under its constitutional jurisdiction'. You will probably agree with me, Mr Potč, that our request is fully in line with this provision. I must say that I am pleased to hear from the representatives of the LDS and SD species that they will participate in this investigative committee. For this reason, I would also ask that we stop talking about this being our investigative commission, which will be the investigative commission of the National Assembly, which is in the interest of this country. I must say that I am only surprised by one statement from the SD representative who spoke about the fact that you would be happy to participate in this investigative committee, that you have as many candidates as we want, and on the other hand she said that Parliament should not set up this investigative commission because it is pure abuse. What is it now? Are you going to be involved in this abuse or what? And there were some illogicalities. Let's say that she cited a provision of the law that says that a parliamentary inquiry can also be initiated in cases where a criminal procedure is ongoing and that this is not an obstacle to the introduction of a parliamentary investigation, and then this provision has itself been denied if it is wrong. Anyway, let's leave it at the side of this formality. It seems very important to me that in this investigative commission, which will investigate the political impact on the so-called Patria affair, which took place two years ago, all the parliamentary groups of this Parliament participate. Let's remember how this affair started. It began with the announcement of the so-called big bang in the Sunday Diary of August 2008, when the journalist wondered where some former president of the state Milan Kučan was hiding or fainting and the answer was, no, he was not hiding, he was not quiet, he was preparing a big bang. And this big bang is one. 9. 2008 was also the case in the form of a Finnish journalist's broadcast with a direct accusation of corruption by the former Prime Minister of the Government. Three weeks before the then parliamentary elections. On the screen, we saw €278 million worth of business times €7.5% of commissions is €21 million. And in connection with these figures, I quote, "J is Janez Janša, President of the Slovenian Government, was President of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2008. In other words, Patria, who owns the state, bribed the President of the Slovenian Government." From here on out, the story took place in incredible proportions. First, after the then parliamentary elections, it rekindled on the anniversary of last year when the former president of the corruption commission spoke of the matter becoming obsolete, but last September in Finland, this investigation. We know none of this happened. Until now, days, weeks ago, months on the second anniversary of this story, we are witnessing some motions to the District Court. To the District Court. Under no circumstances can the District Court judge or judge the most serious forms of corruption if it is committed. So the indication that this is a politically motivated story is as much as you want. From this report of great corruption, which was not, we have now come up with some accusations based on some circumstantial evidence. And what are these circumstantial evidence? These circumstantial evidence is a reference to the former prime minister in the e-mails of some persons, of course he did not even know about. Here I answer to my colleague Slapnik, what the former Prime Minister would deny today after submitting these motions to the District Court when he said that what never happened would never be proved, it would never be proved because it never happened. And these statements can, of course, be the same today. There's something else I'd like to say. If you think there's been as much corruption in this story as there is talk about it, then you'd expect to break your contract with Patrio in these two years. For the National Assembly, in its previous composition, under the previous government, under the Janšev government, adopted a unequivocal decision on 9 September 2008 saying: "In the case of the first confirmed suspicion of corruption, the Ministry of Defence immediately uses the anti-corruption clause and terminates the contract for the supply of armoured vehicles 8x8." For this he has all political disappointment and no responsibility, but in two years you have not done so, despite the clear and unequivocal decision of the National Assembly. Why not? Because you know for yourself that the whole story was staged, politically motivated, a script written in Slovenia and exported to Finland, with a view to discrediting the former President of the Government and the SDS President and with a view to influencing the electoral outcome in 2008, taking power and erasure, by those who conducted and conducted the story on a political level. And, dear colleagues, it is right for you to participate in this commission of inquiry. It is right to make sure that some of your colleagues not only act publicly behind these speakers but also operate in the background. And that is what our task is – difficult, responsible – is, but from this place we guarantee that we will do it by the end of this term, regardless of which one of your or any other representatives is involved. In no case will this Commission of Inquiry affect any judicial, prosecutorial or police proceedings. Not at all. But we expect — I have said this many times, and I repeat from this place — that we will finally know if the commissions have been paid in this business, where they are, where they ended up. This is what we want to find out from the police, prosecutorial and judicial authorities. This is their job. We can't deal with this. However, we want these authorities to complete their business and come in black and white as soon as possible, for two years this investigation has been ongoing, even more than two years and a half, and say whether there is any suspicion that illegal commissions have been paid for the purchase of eight-wheelers in Patrio's business, whether these suspects are being held or not. And if they do, we expect them to tell who, when, how. However, it is not that the public will be deceived by certain accusations based on some quasi circumstantial evidence that have nothing to do with the contents of the whole story and which distance the investigation from the essence of the matter. What is very important in this case and which will have to be investigated in the framework of the parliamentary investigation is whether, in the context of this police and prosecutorial investigation, which must be conducted professionally and independently, a political deadline has also been involved in any part of the investigation. And whether this interference with the political hand in this investigation had any effect. For the facts that have put aside the conclusions have been announced in advance, from month to month, from period to period, speak of the fact that the investigation has not been carried out in the last two years as it should. I repeat, first it was said that it would be completed by the summer of last year, then this deadline was postponed until September of last year. Then we heard that this investigation was to be completed by June of this year. At the end of September, this investigation is still pending. The public does not know where they have agreed for a single euro of the commissions allegedly paid. And for not a single euro of commissions allegedly paid, no indictment has been tabled. However, charges have been filed for attempting to receive a gift because someone is mentioned in some e-mails. Please! It's too serious and it's about creating people's mistrust in the institutions of this system, no matter who it is, it's going to fall for us once, and it's going to fall for you once. It is fundamental to create confidence in the institutions of the system, that we must not let people no longer believe in these institutions, that they get the feeling that everything is politicised. Why I spoke earlier about the fact that people no longer believe in the courts, a respected colleague from the Social Democrats. Not because of what you've been explaining, but because people see. Look at the example, I'm going to go with this case you mentioned – Bulmastifi. The story of the return of these dogs was well under way. In the course of the night, a decision was made. A man who was almost killed is still awaiting compensation by the same judicial authorities. Please! And I'll give you another case, for a ten-year-old crime with the mayor of Kohr. Ten years they haven't found time to bring the matter to an end, and now, before the elections, they've brought it to an end, expressively. On the other hand, we have a case where the suspected high representatives are connected to the current political authority, which first ends in some drawers, then roll through those drawers, then it is found that there is nothing about the things documented by the documentary evidence and so on. In most cases, however, the suspicions of serious crimes, including damage to the State budget and also cases related to the security of this country, should be dealt with fairly by the State and the State authorities and ensure equality of treatment regardless of who it is. So if I finish this part. I must say that, despite some of the statements that have been made today, I think that if you really cooperate with this investigation, we will be able to lead to the end of this mandate. One more word about Milan M. Cwickel, former chairman of the commission. Milan M. Squeakl was completely unworthy to bring this matter to an end. We will also now have the opportunity to look into this report, which was prepared at the time, a partial report, and you will see that there were no conclusions that would have any weight. Why was he unworthy? Because his partner worked with Viator&Vektor, Mr Pavčko, who was directly huddled in this business. You need to know that this whole story started at a time when Systemic Technology, Viator&Vector, Mr Pavček lost this business because it was 50 million euros more expensive than Patrio. And look. When the tender was published in December 2005, no one was upset, and half a year after that no one was upset when these proceedings took place. Only in mid-2006, when it was known that Patria was more favourable at this invitation, did the shouting and shouting start. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Replica Melite Župevc, correction of incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u238	That's right. Thank you, President. I didn't understand how I thought this was an abuse, but we were going to cooperate. Because we don't have a choice. This commission of inquiry will be set up whether or not we believe it is an abuse. And, of course, it's an abuse. I will read again, "if a criminal procedure is already under way, it is not an obstacle that a parliamentary inquiry will not be carried out within the competence of the National Assembly." Mr. Chernač can read laws very well and he knows the Rules of Procedure very well. Earlier it was said, I quote, "we will look for evidence of bribery", which is the essence of this parliamentary commission of inquiry. Everything else that's written there on a few pages is totally lame. In this parliamentary commission of inquiry, you will be looking for evidence of bribery.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The replica, Darja Lovtišar Bebler, is being made to correct false allegations.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u240	That's all I'd say is that it's inappropriate, Mr. Blackach, what you've been doing, because you're well aware of that. When I mentioned the bulmastiffs in my discussion earlier, I mentioned them in connection with the criminal case, and then you answered me and you had in mind the bulmastife in relation to Mr Meglic, where it was a civil matter. So, of course, I know that I know and that I separate these things, but I don't underestimate the public, because the public in my opinion knows and knows how to separate things.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u241	Thank you very much. The word is Dushan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u242	Thank you, Mr. President. Many things have been said, even more than is necessary for this commission of inquiry. In the beginning, let me respond to this last one. I think it's an interest to look for evidence that there were no bribes when we're talking about actual things. But I'll take my turn. The first time I used one word, when my fellow Member said it was inappropriate, I will quote, Janez Janša in 2004, "to corruption, malfeasance and thievery are, except in some individual cases, usually involved individuals from or close to government policy", the end of the quote. And in the middle of 2004, it is known who had the power, and it is known who made the deal with Patria. You can find the answer for yourself. I only hope, as has already been said today, that in 2012 there will be no topic before the elections of Patria, although today the proposer has said that two years will try to make the report at the end of the term, and this means that we are back with the Patria affair just before the 2012 elections. And I'm going to propose that we postpone the election for six months, end this affair without having another election mixed with this affair. Secondly, because I am being taught by those who were not in the Intelligence and Security Services Supervisory Commission in the previous term, to teach, and now I am teaching that I am a year ahead of the Patria affair, when all of this Finnish television and so on, in 2007, I asked Owl 14 questions, our intelligence service, and I got on all 14 questions - "zero, we are not answering this". And because I like to write some things down, because the history of the evidence keeps, I wrote down from the documents that apply to the Owl and the tasks, the duties of the Owl that I might have, I wrote down the following as a comment on these 14 zeros: "The Owl has, in his law on Owl, the power to work in the field of so-called organised crime. Sova is in charge of its anti-intelligence activity and is obliged to protect the Slovenian authorities, including the government – and then Janša’s government – from various forms of attacks, degradation of reputation and the like. With its work, Sova should evaluate both in terms of abuse, property of the Slovenian state" – here I am talking about commissions, and bribes – "as an aspect of damage to the reputation of the Slovenian authorities, in the rounding up of the government. In the event of the appearance of commissions, the Owl should inform the criminal police of these findings." We know who led the police, who was the head of the interior ministry. "In the event that she detects preparations, any of them," I wrote, "the Finnish institutions, in order to attempt to harm the reputation of Slovenia by misinformation, lies or intelligence methods, should point out in due time to the competent state authorities to do everything they can to protect the state from the possible consequences." Say and write, Dusan Kumer, 2007. We are now in 2010. And you're reading to me, even today, the current Chairman of the Supervisory Commission is, of course, showing me some things that I have to say I have no idea about. And if he had already spoken to the Director of Sova, he would have spoken to the then Director of Sova, who was Mr Šinkovec, an important and popular top-notch SDS policy when I asked these questions. That's why I'm saying once again, there's a lot of panic and distress with someone else, not with us. And so once again, I will personally, if the Group of Members decides, be happy to participate in this commission of inquiry, because I will be able to serve you with many things as a member of this committee, so that we can really lead this investigation in a year's time and perhaps in a year's time to a place. However, I do not want our parliamentary investigative committee to influence the proceedings pending before the judicial authorities, other bodies, but I do not want to. When that happens, right off this committee, if I'm a member of this commission, I'm gonna get out. That's it, President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Does the proposer want another word? Please, Mr. Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u244	Thank you very much. I took the example of the Bulmastifs as an example, but otherwise it is clear that there were different procedures, we know that. However, despite the fact that proceedings have taken place before different courts, it is important for legal certainty in this country that all who wish to protect the court receive equal treatment. However, not that some have the possibility of express access to services, some of the privileges of express processing when someone is sick and others can wait on one side for their right of flight and flight, and many of them can never wait to die before. However, some of the files that should be processed due to non-procedure of the statute of limitations. Not to mention the category that has now emerged in the last two years, which has been markedly entrenched with political power, and therefore enjoys immunity in this way and differently. That's what I'm talking about, dear colleague, and I hope we're getting along now. And I only took this case as an example. But I can tell you cases as many as you want, from which people will not underestimate people, people understand and know very well whether our courts work in the interest of everyone or act as this country or people expect them to do, as set out in the Constitution and the law or not. About Patrio's story. I sincerely hope that in 2012 when our work must be finished. Why does it have to be over? Because we cannot postpone it to the next term. If people don't know this, we have to say this, we have to end this investigation during our term of office, otherwise all work is thrown away. I hope that when we're done, we can't finish it sooner than we did in this period, because it's too extensive to talk about Patrio's affair anymore. I sincerely hope that we will then come before the public with results when this story will be closed once and for all in such a way that the public will know what happened and what was happening in this story and why it happened as it happened. For I cannot understand how it is possible that in previous periods, when the practice of previous governments was such that large arms systems were procured without a call, without public tenders, on the basis of a direct invitation to offer house suppliers, such as the System Technology, that there was no voice at the time about what was happening and where all those funds were flowing in the background, and apparently they were. And these friends, now mentioned in the case of Patrie, apparently also worked at the time, in previous times, but the practice, of course, ended with the former Janša government, as a public tender was published at the time. You are aware that a public tender was published in December 2005 and that there were 12 who raised the dossier and in the end two submitted the tenders. And until the moment it became publicly known that there was no system technique chosen, but Patricia, no one opposed it. Mr Anderlich was silent as chairman of the committee, and then he started shouting and shouting what was going on. And I remember those meetings of the Defence Committee, extraordinary and so on, where former Minister Erjavec explained, walked with papers, explaining that 50 million euros is more expensive Systemic Technology for a product that is not even on the drawing board and so on. Regardless of whether dirty business was happening in the background, everyone would expect it, but most of all in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because because of this story you don't want to get dirty in front of the public, to investigate these things and to tell the public whether it was happening or not and where, among whom and where that money landed. However, it is necessary to bring appropriate evidence to this effect, not to operate on some fictional stories, and to conduct an investigation in one part that prevented qualified investigators from getting to the bottom. I am firmly convinced that in Slovenia we have very good investigators who are also able to investigate such difficult stories only if they are not influenced by such or otherwise. But once again, we don't want to interfere with these procedures, we want them to end, but we want to do [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u245	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since time has been set for discussion, there is no progress yet, I ask, is there anyone else who wishes to discuss it under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure? Yes, please report. Nine panellists have been reported, each with 5 minutes. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u246	Thank you very much. I would, however, take advantage of this time allocated to me for some of the answers to this debate. Mr Dušan Kumer, who is just leaving, spoke about many things, also corrected me in the replica when I spoke about the Owl or Owl affair and he fixed me there in some way that was not the most understandable, but was understandable. So, the conclusion of the National Assembly was that they didn't make deals, I mean Jansa and Sanader. But I warn you, we've been doing this for two years. Two years. I would like to point out that for two years this topic has been rolling. I would also say this to you, Mr Potč, perhaps I respect what Dr Bučar writes, my purpose was not to trouble the writing of Dr Bučar or the "soft transition" because in some way we can agree with the "soft transition" because those transitions in other Eastern European countries were bloody, but not with us. But I, in particular, drew attention to the writing of your young man, who, I think this year, wrote down that the transition had been completed, this passage of the year 90 was completed by your predecessor, the United List of Social Democrats, in cooperation with Demos. And this is a terrible fabrication of history, and we can probably both agree on that. Next thing. What Mr Kumer said about what would happen in 2012 and that Patria's affair would then be present, I almost doubt that Patria's affair would obviously not produce any smart results that the left could use in the elections by 2012. But I would have predicted something else, a new affair would have happened if your authority had been compromised. At this point, after public opinion polls, I don't know what will happen until 2012, but that extreme, final, urgent acceleration in the desire to win the elections will be a new affair. Which, of course, will then be appropriate, so difficult to say. Someone was also talking about Owl and what Mr Kumer had in mind in 2007, but what he was talking about is not the basic task of Owl, it is a fact. You need to know that it only uses some completely different methods and means to obtain data and that it does not have classical police powers. That's a fact. If all three police, Austrian, Finnish, Slovenian and all the prosecutions did not find material evidence, this is now evident if they keep the data from the newspapers, then probably Sova could not have discovered it in 2007, that is probably a fairly clear matter. What I wanted a response to, and now I'm just going to verbally challenge Mrs Bebler's, and here's what's going to happen. In fact, because you didn't respond and you were looking away earlier when I was talking about it. For you set a standard for who could be appointed as President of the Supreme Court when you said in HR, namely at KVIAZ, that someone who has just issued a release judgment, you thought, as far as we know, of Mr Rupar, that he could not be President of the Supreme Court, and that was then summarized in your client and in the coalition when we talked about Shorley. This is what I'm having a problem with, because I'm talking about the standards that you're setting in this country now that you're in power. Of course, your conduct will be interesting if what I told you will happen, given the candidate applied and the procedures under way. This will likely then be the standard for someone who has participated in those commissions that acted on the basis of a secret official document to verify the death toll as something legal at the state border. And that would make him president of the Supreme Court. So, if this is the standard, it's not the standard for me, but it's for me to create lobbying and conditions to keep you in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u247	Thank you very much. The word is "Miran Potch." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u248	Thank you very much. You never did, and you won't hear me brag that we're the only ones responsible for any soft transition. Never! But I've heard a lot of your representatives who weren't ready to admit that except for Demos, anyone else did something positive before and after 1990, and that's bad. I am very proud that in 1990, together with all the representatives of Demos' parties and also the opposition at the time, I signed an agreement on preparations for plebiscite, which meant ensuring unity, which then gave us not only such a result, but all the subsequent activities that we can be proud of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u249	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Maybe a few words about that work, because there was no time before when I was talking about why this intense affair actually happened. I think we can find one part of the answers in this correlation. See, I mentioned earlier that in previous periods before 2004 no public tenders were published in the field of defence weapons, very many things were published on the basis of direct invitations – hugely through the Systemic Technology, because this Systemic Technology was a house supplier of the Ministry of Defence. After this sale, when the country, together with the 8x8 license, sold this Pavčko company, was the Minister of Defence on 20 August, which was days before the then state-election elections, when the government lost the election, signed a letter on the intention of the Ministry of Defence to provide eight-wheelers with System Technology. Not a word in that letter of intent wrote the value of this business, hands, nothing. Of course, these things changed with a new government. The public tender was published at the end of 2005, published by the Ministry of Defence, Mr Erjavec, and it is known who signed the contract – Ministry of Defence, then Minister Erjavec, no one else – for Patrio. This strong pursuit began only at the moment when it was found that, on the basis of this public tender, these rags, which were still on the drawing board, were essentially copper II, on the one hand, do not fit the technical characteristics and are entirely too expensive for EUR 50 million. That's when this great story happened. It would be quite interesting if this historical cycle could be reversed, what would have happened if this unfortunate, technically defective product, the Krapan, had been selected. I'm sure everyone would be quiet. Despite 50 million more expensive products, no one would get upset, everything would be O.K. because political friends would be covered. This is the main problem of this story, and this strong activity has also been released. This is also shown by the information on how the six - wheeled workers were procured. See, here in the report of our commission, which dealt with this issue in the previous term, I will tell you this particular case that I spoke about earlier: the order for EUR 28 million 962 thousand 172, almost EUR 30 million. 3. 2. invitation Systemic techniques by the MORS, 2003 Robbery Government. Ten. 2. The offer came, i.e. in seven days or the deadline was up to 10. 2, the offer arrived at 7, says in 4 days, was on 4 pages, for six-wheelers worth 30 million euros. In a month or so, 10. 3. Following the final selection report, the day later the contract was signed. There are no guarantee terms, not delivery deadlines. Then there were a number of annexes that extended this supply deadline indefinitely and the penalty was not charged due to delays. Thus, weapons systems were acquired in previous periods of the previous governments. And the previous minister here made some cut, wanted to make some order. The establishment of this order also meant that he had apparently shuddered into an interest sphere of previously connected persons and that this powerful story with all these actors had also been triggered. The irony in this will be, and this is what we expected to find investigators who have the authority to do so, if this whole process does not happen because of drawing attention away from those who, due to their previous connections, may still be operating in the background, and perhaps still have something cashed out in this business. It's too bad if it really happened. Unfortunately, this commission of inquiry, because it is a political commission, cannot be found, but the public expected this story to be studied in this part. For a few indictees say that then these same friends who had been involved in these things in the past in the background also appeared with Patria. Our expectation, regardless of this parliamentary investigation, is that the investigators are also having fun with this matter, if there is still time, and they are investigating this part. I'm afraid this time has passed and the political direction of the investigation has led the matter in the wrong direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u251	Thank you very much. The word is Melita Župevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That's the problem. The problem is, we're talking about what would have happened if it had been. It wasn't. There was something else. No previous government has acquired patriots. What government is it? It's the government of Janshe. Not Rob, not Drnovskov, not Bayuk. And no letter of intent changes anything. What ministers have signed contracts? Janshe's ministers. Against whose people are the defendants' proposals? Of course, we know the answer. So this is about the impact on the elections. And before that, a comparison was made with one another investigative commission. My colleague Miran Potts has explained the difference before, and I'm going to add something. Another investigative commission is investigating the suspicion of abuse of electoral legislation. Slovenian weekly and Express were, we're checking, there's a suspicion, the pre-election propaganda of a political party. The question is, who financed them, how they financed them, whether they were those funds, was this pre-election propaganda, which was misled, reported to the Court of Auditors and so on. We're talking about very specific things. Mr Pavel Rupar was mentioned. An interesting statement was made by Mr Pavel Rupar a few days ago about these freebies. I will quote that you will not attack me to misquote your colleagues' statements, "the news is more about fighting SDS with others, and these freebies are a more spontaneous response to our truth coming on the day to present itself. But the new Marketer is paid. I know that well." Very interesting. Paula Rupar already knows what he's talking about, I'm sure of that. I'm gonna say what I said a few times today. My personal opinion is that this commission of inquiry in this Parliament should never be set up because it is a pure abuse of the institution of the parliamentary commission of inquiry. The purpose is only one and only one: not to explore the background or determine political responsibility, of course, but the desire is only one – to get to the documentation. But it's not just that you're going to get to her, the problem is what you're going to do with this documentation. In Others [[...]] [[advertising in the hall]] Well, here, now Mr. Grill has actually answered my question, "We're going to show it to the public." The preparatory investigations in which the documentation is obtained usually result in the fact that investigative commissions receive material of a confidential nature. But apparently, the manners and habits of the SDS are to be intertwined with this material in public. Mr Grill just said, "We're going to tell this to the public, we're going to present it to the public." Bravo! Bravo, it's a good thing you said that out loud. You're going to send classified papers to newspapers, and I'm not going to tell you who, because you don't have to be an artist to find out, you're going to go to a press conference, you're going to make incriminating suggestions, you're going to do something else. It's nice of you to be so honest, really. I think it's good that we know what we're talking about, that we're not going to talk about some records that you accidentally wrote in some request for a parliamentary inquiry order. I must say, I wonder what the Legislative and Legal Service is doing in this House. As far as I know, the Legal and Legal Service did not have any comments on this request. Really, very interesting. Since, at another request for a parliamentary inquiry, which was more justified in my opinion, she had many comments and had to be complemented several times. At that request, however, she did not have any comments. As it is said, the coalition Members will, of course, participate in this parliamentary commission of inquiry, we will not do what the Slovenian Democratic Party does when it says there is no point in participating in another investigative commission. It would be good if you did. It would be good. And unlike your colleagues who have not been able to read the material, I believe that you will read this material very well, and as Mr Grill freely admitted earlier, you will do everything possible with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u253	Just an explanation, the Law-Legal Service has made some comments, more of a nomotechnic nature, which have, I don't know, been taken into account or not. It doesn't matter that much either. The fact is that the Law on Parliamentary Investigation is such and, if the request is designed as it should be, it cannot be rejected. So it's pretty clear here. Let's move on. There's a word for Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Well, it follows from this debate that new suspensions will be followed by all those who disagree with the ruling coalition's opinion. First of all, I would like to say that in the previous term, the Commission for the Control of Security and Intelligence Services was chaired by the current President of the National Assembly. This commission reviewed the material related to so-called hearings. The conclusion of this report has not been given to the National Assembly for more than half a year. And it is interesting that this report, which was very unpleasant for Mr Rope, appeared about the same time as the Patrio affair. This is said to have been covered up with another story that was already under way. Six months! I asked several times when the report would be submitted, but it was never possible to call on the Commission to be complete and to receive the report. Another time. I would like to know when the 2009 report of the Kosovo Commission will be submitted – the law was still in force then, the report was not submitted within the time limit – and who will then deal with it. And the suspension of this commission, Marinčko, was due in particular to the fact that this 2009 report by Mr Kos is probably also very much linked to many of Mr Kos's public appearances, including on Finnish television, when he commented on the Patria affair and when he talked about how they work and what foreign investigative bodies will do. This should probably be complemented and the public should be informed. As far as matters relating to the work of the previous Commission of Inquiry are concerned. The president of that investigative commission was in a strange situation. He worked very closely with Mr. Kos, whose brother was and probably is also a lawyer in Systemic Technology. He worked very closely with Systemic Technology, where it was, I will say, for contacts with the public or the editor of one of the factory newspapers of his current wife, Jerca Legan. For the auditor, for the technical documentation reviewer, he hired someone from the System Technology, who participated in the preparation of the System Technology tender, and that person then assessed the appropriateness of the documentation and the documentation of Patrie and so on. In short, a whole series of collisions. As a result, a part of the commission of inquiry decided at that time to appoint Mr Squill as a witness in this commission of inquiry. This did not mean any suspension and no discontinuation. He was summoned because of these conflicts of interest that were evident as a witness in this commission of inquiry. Mr. probably, and if he wanted to be a witness, he couldn't be president of this commission, so you had to, and you should, if you had any interest, appoint a new member as President. You didn't want to. The one who wanted to explore the role, for example, of Mr Kos in this story, was terminated by a decision of the National Assembly, by the adoption of the law, and did not even arrive at the completion of the 2008 report and the 2009 report was not submitted. And one more thing. The working method used by the coalition in all these matters, the current coalition, in all these stories is exactly the same. In some dissident media, some information appears, this information begins to spin, we get enormous accelerations, those who are defamed with such information cannot, in fact, defend themselves, because this special media space is not available anywhere, and so on and the story is being made. And there are no other options like setting up a commission, actually, there is no other defense. But the model is exactly like Stalin used in his day when he lived, when he published a clue in a Danish newspaper, and then he started cleaning up the generals and all those who worked with him. Cleansing. And model, the concept is from the Academy of Gjerđinski filmed to zero, and I still don't know how many decades it's still running and "split" it through Slovenia. All the production of these affairs, which are happening, runs according to the same concept, changes only the subject and the technology is exactly the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u255	Thank you very much. The word is Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Well, it'll be a lot easier for me to have this debate that my predecessor, colleague Melita Župevc, made easy for me. See, colleague Župevcheva, if what you hold us at the meeting of the Commission of Elections once so convincingly tried to convince that your commission of inquiry has already collected enough evidence to prove how the free-of-chargers were being abused, what was the financial structure here and all that was behind it, I ask you and call on the public to give a decision to your commission of inquiry and give the investigating authorities an appeal or anything to enable those institutions to act on this responsibility. Why are you taking the time of God and the National Assembly? Is that a supplement for you? It's probably in your interest that you're going to be pretending more or less in public about these things now from month to month. That would certainly be most effective. Give this to the investigating authorities so they can prove it and then do what they're about to do. What you're saying is it's supposed to be me who puts classified documents in the public eye. It's your insinuation again. Your colleague Rob really put one of these things in public, which he was lying about. Then, even if it were true, I should not make this public. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] If you tell the press, it's for me, Mrs. Bebler, publicly. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Well, let the others be the judge of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u257	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u258	Well, we can see that that's not the case. But look. In the Slovenian Democratic Party and myself, I myself will be very happy to provide any information to the public if, of course, this will not harm some of the state secrets that the public deserves and has the right to know. And I fear that we will not get such documents, which in any way could prove that we had any connection to these stories during the previous term. The Investigative Commission needs all those pre-commanding procedures that you're talking about being completed, and all the evidence is collected. That's what you said. Now I ask you when you need some evidence – or you can't answer now, probably one of your successors – but look, I'm going to ask you one more question. You're saying you'll be happy to be part of this investigative committee. I believe that you will, because you have a majority in the commission of inquiry and you will be able to make the conclusions you would like. Why are you not so cooperative why you are not so constructive in the inquiry committee led by colleague Alenka Jeraj, when because of the indiscretion of your Members, of course, you cannot collect evidence and evidence. But you're not so cooperative there, and I believe here, you'll be happy to cooperate and then you'll reject the evidence we have, you'll be accepting conclusions that will distort the truth. And that's very interesting, too, because one coalition MPs are looking forward to this commission, one of you thinks it's necessary, one you say it isn't. It's interesting how different interests are here. The story that you are selling here to the public right now that this committee is abusing the rules of procedure, that it is unnecessary, of course, it does not. If an investigative commission is needed at this time, it is certainly necessary to clarify once and for all what has happened to this affair and then the public will start dealing with those matters that will be more useful to them, not those stories that have been "rolling" since 2008 and will be done until 2012, if this matter is not completed. I am confident that the public will also look forward to the results and results of this Commission with great anticipation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word. Please. [[advertising from the hall]] The replica is not possible. That's his problem. That's not possible. Just Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u260	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. The House of Honor, as many of us as are still here! To be clear, Mr Grill, I think this investigation committee is totally unnecessary and I suggest we go home. Good night.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u261	Well, you could apply procedurally, but good. Let's move on. Dara Lavtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, Mr. Gorenak, don't blame me if I don't respond to any of your nonsense you say here. No, no, no. You said I was actually the one who set the standards in the National Assembly, who could run and who would be elected President of the Supreme Court. Far from it, and I'm really asking you not to underestimate me so much. It is true, however, that I, when this particular candidate was here in the game, expressed the opinion, the position of the Group of Members. That was not my opinion, and I have repeatedly stressed that. This was the position of the Group of Members. But you have said something like that today, as if it is already true, which is what the likely or possible future candidate has said somewhere. Do you have any evidence of that? If I am correctly informed, I have read some articles on this subject, and it was said that later it turned out that this was not true, which was what the SDS Group then read to this particular candidate when he applied for a permanent term of office. But let's just let it go. We'll talk about it. By chance, I am not one to set such standards either, probably because I know more about the law than you and about the competences of individual institutions in this constitutional legal system that is in force with us. It's just this thing. That's another thing. The letter of intent was mentioned here several times. I would say that the letter of intent is not the same signed contract. That's the first time. Another time. When was the letter and the letter of intent signed? And: When was the contract for the purchase of patriots concluded? In the meantime, several years have passed, and in the meantime there has been an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, and in the meantime we have been obliged to comply with the regulations and directives of the European Union. Therefore, do not attribute what then the Yangtze government has done to His Majesty to agree to go with the public tender regarding the acquisition of patriots and the conclusion of the Patrienne contract. But things have changed significantly in the meantime. This commission of inquiry that we are setting up today, which you are proposing, I have already said, is indeed an abuse for me, but according to the Rules of Procedure, you will require it by law and by the Rules of Procedure and by law you will have it. Good luck with that. Here I must say that I do not agree with the opinion of my colleague Župevc that this is a matter of background for the establishment of this commission of inquiry just so that you can obtain some documentation that you would not otherwise have reached, and from which you would then know about the situation of these guardians in these proceedings. I don't think it's just that. I am confident that what I have already said is a matter of pressure on the prosecution, on the specific prosecutor, and that it is a matter of pressure on the future judge and that it is a matter of pre-disclosure of any kind, especially if a negative and unfavourable judgment is handed down against your protectors. This is what I am reading to this investigative commission that it is in fact seeking to discredit the court's decision. I just don't agree with my colleague here. But as you say, here you are, setting up a commission, having it, being happy with it. And of course we will also, because we will cooperate in it, help to get to the truth, because you say you want to come with the truth every day. And another thing is, Mr Grill, before we were here, I may have been rudely over the table with you, because you may have heard about that provision in the law, that the journalist is not obliged to issue his source, and you have probably also heard about the conversation between two on the phone, if not told in advance, that this answer or this conversation will be published that it is a private phone conversation. Did you hear that? Then it's nice. Thank you very much. I'm calm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Procedurally. But be careful, you won't have more than 10 seconds if you don't suggest first. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u264	I will, I will be very careful.Dear Mr. President, I suggest that you invite Mrs. Bebler to explain to all of us how the investigative commission can put pressure on the prosecution and the judges, because I am interested in [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u265	Thank you very much. This was essentially an abuse of the procedural question. In fact, you've already disputed with Mrs Bebler, and you've only used me as a proposal. The matter is quite clear. The word is Renata Brunskole. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! In listening to the four-hour debate on this parliamentary inquiry order, I have to say what I have in mind. I thought about this because I was thinking about all those who are listening to us, and all those who are having problems today, whether they have been hit without employment or have been hit by floods, and thinking about how to go on, how to survive the winter, and so on. On the other hand, we talked earlier about transport connections, in short, there were several such points that somehow seemed more lifelike, closer to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, I will certainly not discuss this point alone, but I want a good night to all!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Blackach. Once again, I remind you that I will not allow the abuse of procedural proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u268	Dear President, as I am reading the Rules of Procedure, and we have also witnessed at the previous item on the agenda of this meeting, when the time remaining for the debate was allocated, the motioner finally received the last word. And this is how I read our Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I also think it makes sense that this is because only the applicant is the one who, at the conclusion of the debate, also responds to the dilemmas that have been raised. And in this division of time, some of the dilemmas that are of a smaller nature have been re-emphasized, but they need to be clarified. And the rules of procedure, I think, are meant for that. One of these things is the submission of evidence. This Commission of Inquiry [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u269	Mr. Blackach!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u270	If you allow me, I will explain this procedural proposal to the end, and then you will decide whether or not you will give me this option. This commission of inquiry does not, of course, need any evidence as discussed by the colleague Zupevcheveva. That's where the forecasting process, as you know, is concluded. All the evidence is collected, and these are not the evidence that would be of interest to this investigative commission. It is also interesting that, in the same breath, when Social Democrats talk about abuse, they will be happy to participate in this commission of inquiry, which is strange, irrational, and even double-faced. I think we should be honest about whether they want the truth to come to the bottom of Patrio's story or not. And believe me, the investigative commission investigating this story has no intention of creating any pressure on anyone. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u271	Mr. Blackach, you're going through a procedural proposal!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u272	But I can comfort my colleague Bebler and tell her that, as far as I'm concerned, I firmly believe that the judgment in the matter he's talking about has already been written and we all know what it's like. So, in my view, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the proposer must finally have the option of the last word, as he had when the debaters were notified to the debate. The point is, of course, to explain, as a last resort, those statements which could possibly be reopened by other discussers in their deliberations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-09-24-SDZ5-Redna-20.ana.u273	I'm afraid I can't give you my word. This first paragraph of Article 71 of the Rules of Procedure shall be misinterpreted. If you applied and also indicated that you applied as a candidate, I would give you my word at the end. But you didn't sign up. Where representatives of the Government are present, they shall apply orally because they cannot be used by an electronic device. We have also concluded this debate with this. On the basis of Article 4(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Chamber on Parliamentary Investigation, the assembly does not vote in favour of Parliamentary Investigation, so I note that the Parliamentary Chamber has ordered a parliamentary inquiry to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions for the suspicion of abuse of the official position of the holders of public functions, in order to influence the outcome of the elections to the National Assembly in 2008, in view of the suspicion of the abuse of the official position of the holders of public functions for the purpose of misleading the domestic and foreign public and domestic and foreign investigative bodies, on the basis of the partial or political needs of the organised and some hidden data, the result of which is the extension and aggravation of the criminal investigation in the case of Patria or its targeting of the non-involunable political rivals due to the suspicion of the abuse of the official position of the holders of the public authorities, with a view to concealing of the conflicts of foreign investigators and to the suspicion of the abuse of the public authorities of corruption for the exercise of the exercise of the powers of the powers of the powers of the parliament. Because of the scope of the text of the content of the purpose and the scope of the parliamentary inquiry, I will not read it, since you have Members on the bench as an integral part of the act on the determination of the parliamentary investigation, which will also be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The Parliamentary Commission is hereby designated. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to forward it to the National Assembly at the latest at its forthcoming meeting. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also interrupt the 20th meeting of the Assembly, which we will continue on Tuesday 28. 9. 2010 at 9 p.m. Thank you so much and good night.
