ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Alenka Jeraj, Robert Hrovat, Branko Grims, Anton Anderlič, Marian Križman, Milan Gumzar, Miran Jerič, Roberto Battelli and me also between 19.45 and 20.45. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to five. PERIOD OF THE DAY — TO THE THIRDLY PROPOSED AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE INTERNATIONAL PROTECTION LAW IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The word has magic. Damjan Lah, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u2	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! We are in the final stage of addressing the amendment of the law on international protection, and it is certainly right to make a quick review of the essential changes brought about by the novel. The amendment of the law itself raises standards both for applicants for international protection and for persons with recognised international protection by amending the procedure for the recognition of international protection, by regulating the legal representation of unaccompanied minors and by extending the rights of applicants for international protection and persons with recognised international protection. In the case of the international protection procedure itself, the time limit for bringing an action against a decision issued in an expedited procedure shall be extended from the previous 3 to 8 days, the mandatory execution of the main hearing shall be introduced in the proceedings before the Administrative Court, of course in the event that the actual situation has been found to have been incomplete and incorrect or if the facts found to have led to a wrong decision, thereby increasing the quality of the decisions in the procedure for granting international protection, free legal assistance shall be introduced to applicants at the first stage, it shall be said that the decision in the procedure of international protection has been taken. An important part of the amendments concerns unaccompanied minors, as the representation is extended through strict representation in the international protection process also to the exercise of the rights of minors both in education and in the field of health. Standards for the competence of staff members to work with minors are increasing, and the level of health care is also increasing. The new rights of applicants for international protection include the introduction of free legal assistance at the first stage, the introduction of a allowance for applicants for international protection, access to the labour market after nine months of application and access to higher education and university education. In the case of persons with recognised international protection, we have extended the definition of family members, introduced monetary compensation for non-resident refugees, introduced one-off financial assistance for schoolchildren and introduced information on conditions for the extension of subsidiary protection. Some improvements have been made in the text of the bill in the context of the National Assembly so far. And since the proposal for a new law brings a lot of positive changes that will improve the situation of applicants for international protection and persons with already recognised international protection, we believe that the law is suitable for final approval and adoption. At the same time, we propose that the National Assembly should adopt a decision to draw up an official consolidated text of the law as a result of the scope of the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! We will support the amendment of the Law on International Protection in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The text of the law changes to the benefit and improvement of the status or position of the applicant for international protection and of persons with recognised international protection and their rights. The proposed amendments systematically regulate the area of international protection, extend the range of rights belonging to applicants and persons with recognised international protection. In practice or in implementation, the law has proved to be flawed, including NGOs that have participated with their representatives in the drafting of the law for the first time so far. They participated in an interdepartmental working group called by the Government, which is why some of the solutions are also the work of NGOs. This is the type of solutions that are drawn up on the proposal of NGOs. I would therefore like to commend the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior, who have included NGOs in the drafting of the amendment, as they remain over-examined and ignored many times. The shortcomings addressed by the proposed amendments and additions to the law are mainly affected by compliance with international standards in the field of international protection with the aim of ensuring the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Certain solutions are aimed at raising standards set in accordance with European asylum policy and other international standards. Some solutions focus on improving the conditions for successful integration of persons with recognised international protection into Slovenian society, but by maintaining mechanisms and instruments to prevent potential abuses. The amendment of the law amends the procedure for the recognition of international protection. There have been problems in the field of unaccompanied minors, in particular with regard to the establishment of legal representatives in determining their roles. The system is governed by legal representation for unaccompanied minors, a range of rights is extended or new rights are introduced for applicants. In our view, this part of the amendment is going in the right direction, as we support and advocate the improvement of standards in the field of international protection at the LDS. The novelty further introduces an extended definition of family members in persons with recognised international protection and adds grounds for termination of the status of international protection and introduces changes in the field of re-examination with a view to harmonising the legal provisions with the procedural directive and proposes to extend the time limits for initiating an administrative dispute. In view of all the above, the legal text brings about an improvement and an increase in standards in the field of international protection, as recommended by both European asylum policy and other international standards. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are confident that the proposed solutions undoubtedly raise the reputation of the Republic of Slovenia, so in the LDS Club we will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Andrej Magajn. [[He's not here.]] The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dara Lavtijar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! We have already said in previous discussions in the Group of Social Democrats that we will support this bill. We are convinced that the proposal for this novel will address the shortcomings that NGOs have experienced in the implementation of the current law on international protection. Let me reiterate that this is a matter of substantive innovation, which mainly interferes with the treatment of unaccompanied minors, as it is a specific and sensitive population and positive solutions concern refugee advisers. The novelty will ensure that standards are raised in procedures for the recognition of international protection of vulnerable persons, introduces allowance and access to higher education and university education, and extends the scope of rights in the field of health care for minors. All of this will help bring about faster integration, integration of persons into life and work in our environment, as the law on international protection is based on the principle of non-refoulement. We Social Democrats have always advocated respect for international standards in ensuring and protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms for those who, due to political, economic or other circumstances, can no longer live in their own country. We have also always advocated that the power of those seeking help in our country should be to provide higher standards than the minimum laid down in the European Union directives. We will also support the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 13a, as this is an editorial correction. The fifth paragraph of Article 13 of the Law on International Protection should be taken into account, which lists the conditions to be met by the Refugee Adviser. The Social Democrats will therefore support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jožef Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to congratulate the Slovenes on today's state holiday, Rudolph Maister's day. It's about our relationship to patriotism and our own country. Since we have a point on today's agenda, where we will determine our relationship to Slovenian independence, to whether it is an important value, it is important to remember this great Slovenian history and also the classic national hero, without whom this independence would probably not have been. With regard to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection in the SDS Group, we stress that, for the second time in a good year, we have been interfering with the law on international protection. The amendment of the Law on International Protection adopted last year brought the law into line with a decision of the Constitutional Court, which concluded that the first indent of Article 83 of the Law on International Protection is inconsistent with the Constitution. The amendment was a provision setting out the conditions for the discharge or accommodation at a private address in compliance with the conditions laid down by law. We need to consider a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on International Protection, by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes extensive amendments and additions to the law. More than a third of the articles are being amended, in which case a new law should be proposed in accordance with the Nomotechnical Guidelines. In the SDS Group, we cannot agree with the proposal for a solution that introduces more favourable conditions for granting international protection. We believe that the current international protection regime in the Republic of Slovenia and the conditions for granting international protection follow directives that form a single asylum system or are comparable and consistent with the arrangements of other Member States of the European Union. With regard to the proposal for a solution in the marriage novel, an example of a proposal for the introduction of a allowance for applicants of international protection established in an asylum home or a proposal for the introduction of one-off cash assistance, where, in the second reading of the SDS Group, we proposed the maintenance of the applicable regime in order to achieve its objectives in the second reading by the SDS Group. In this regard, we have taken into account the considerations expressed by the Commission of the State Council for State Arrangements. In the SDS Group, we wonder whether this is the right time or whether such changes are really necessary. We believe that this must be asked in particular in the light of the financial consequences of the law. There may be no major financial consequences, but we are faced with far more pressing problems at that time, so it would be worth asking about the purpose and timing of such changes. In the SDS Group, we believe that illegal migration should be prevented in accordance with European standards, which are not due to political persecution and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. At the same time, we agree with the solutions in the field of international protection that follow the procedural directives and other directives of the European Union that build a single European asylum system. However, we are opposed to non-critical solutions to asylum rights, as the bill-maker added with the proposed amendments, so we cannot support and oppose the proposed solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! The proposal for a law before us today in the third reading is primarily about harmonisation, as has already been said, with international standards in this area. The purpose of the legislative changes is to ensure and protect the human rights and fundamental freedoms of applicants for international assistance. The Common European Asylum Policy is moving in the direction of raising standards, which is also foreseen by this novel. However, some of the solutions proposed are aimed at improving the conditions for the successful inclusion of persons with recognised international protection in Slovenian society. The experience of some other countries from abroad, which have a longer practice in this area, shows us that greater concern is necessary here, so we feel welcome because we do not have to repeat some mistakes ourselves and we can learn from others. The proposed changes, as has already been said, relate mainly to asylum counsellors for refugees, interpreters, unaccompanied minors, family members of the applicant, as well as procedures for the recognition of international protection and judicial protection. In the Parliamentary Group, we are particularly pleased to see that the amendments to Articles 12 and 13 were also adopted in the second reading of the law. We must not forget that the coalition partners have already committed themselves to increasing the security and rights of applicants for international assistance through the coalition treaty. As I have already pointed out in the previous examination of the law, we believe that free legal aid in the second instance may be totally useless before the court because the applicant has to state the facts and evidence at the first stage of the procedure, and the right to free legal aid at the first stage will, in our opinion, undoubtedly ensure a more effective guarantee of rights, as the Ombudsman has also pointed out. Access to free legal capacity at the first stage will, in our view, improve the fairness, efficiency and quality of decision-making at the first stage and will therefore reduce the likelihood of appeal proceedings and their associated costs. In this light we also see the amendment to Article 13a, which in practice regulates these matters more precisely. We hope that the Ministry of the Interior, in cooperation with the Justice Ministry, will remove obstacles that currently prevent the optimal implementation of proposed legal solutions in the area of legal aid. We are pleased that these changes have taken place, with which Slovenia not only follows trends in this area, but also puts them on what we can be proud of. Of course, we will be happy to support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In 2007, the Law on International Protection was replaced by the Asylum Act of 1999, which was also adopted in 1999. As a result of the Constitutional Court decision, which found non-compliance with the Constitution in part of the Act, he had already experienced the first amendment in 2009. Today we have a large novel that changes far more than 1/3 of the articles of the basic law, for which a new law, according to the rules, should be proposed, not its amendment and supplementation. In fact, the scope of such changes is unclear, as the applicant in the explanatory memorandum only says that since the entry into force of the law in 2008 the procedures for the recognition of international protection and the implementation of the rights of applicants for international protection and persons with recognised international protection have shown certain shortcomings that need to be rectified. The Novela also enforces editorial corrections to the legal text, with 113 articles per law having basically 142 articles. It's a bit unusual, at least, what you might say, even though it was actually recently adopted. The basic objective of the bill is therefore to supplement the existing legal text with editorial corrections in terms of the terminology of the uniformity of the legal text. In addition, the law is complemented by minimum substantive corrections designed to ensure a clearer implementation of the existing provisions. In the substantive sense, the law substantially raises the standards of rights of applicants for international protection and persons with recognised international protection. Is this really the right time, or is this really necessary, and maybe we should just ask ourselves. The financial consequences of this law are not great, but, at a time when we are faced with many more important problems, the marriage may wait a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by mag. Your Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! In view of the fact that we announced our vote in our position on the second reading of the novel to support the novels, I would like to start by reiterating the support of the DeSUS Group. What the specific novelty of the law brings to those who come to our country, because in their home country for various reasons, especially political, economic, cannot live, has already been said. In the general context of the amendment to the Law on International Protection, it brings some important innovations that will serve to raise standards in procedures for obtaining international protection and raising the standard of rights for persons under international protection or applicants for them, and correct the shortcomings that have been shown in the implementation of the law in practice. Solutions aimed at raising standards followed the harmonisation of the common European asylum policy and also international requirements. In our Group of Members, we support the provision and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all and everyone, and it is therefore appropriate for us to take measures, in accordance with the principle of integration, to ensure that this principle is implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u16	Good-bye! The law speaks of fundamental rights and freedoms, but someone else, not Slovenian citizens. If we have to ensure fundamental rights and freedoms for someone, it is more reasonable to guarantee them for our people, because in the Republic of Slovenia these freedoms and rights are lower from day to day. However, we want to take care of economic migrants who will come to Slovenia from any end of the world. We don't care what happens to our people who have nothing to eat who don't have money that has bad pensions. I'm wondering how DeSUS can talk about supporting everyone who gets significantly more money in their pocket if they come from anywhere but their own people. I'm surprised we're willing to offer everyone else what ratings, but for our people, we don't, and we forget about them. We won't support this law in our client. The fact is that Europe is also moving in the opposite direction and only Slovenia is pushing all together to open doors for migrants of such or different kinds. The fact is that these are mainly economic migrants seeking their jobs and a better chance of earning money. This is what the European Community has found and the Council of Europe has discussed on several occasions, and only we are still talking together on some basis of a social sense that others do not have towards our country. What about protecting our citizens abroad? A whole series of cases is when our country has not tried to protect our citizens abroad So what? Nothing! Did anyone else help us? Nobody. In addition, problems in the country are more important than we are now dealing with them, because I don't know what to call them, migrants, say, economic migrants. What's interesting is that whoever comes to Slovenia, right now, I don't know what kind of protection he's going to be living in an asylum home, three times a day he's going to have food, he's going to get a suit. If we go to look, we have asylum homes, and we see that within two months they are largely ruined and destroyed. But these people will get their allowance now, and if they don't like the accommodations in an asylum home, they'll find their own accommodation somewhere in the city, wherever, they'll walk around free. Go look around Europe to see how they can walk freely elsewhere and how much money they get in their pockets. But Slovenia must be seen as some land of prosperity, of course for others, a land of mad freedom, of course for others, a land of great rights, of course for others, never and never for their people. Go take a look at Kozianski or Prekmurje, how many people have health care provided. No, it's not. For these foreigners who come here for such or other purposes, usually never positive for Slovenia, at best they will come only because of the economic situation and because of the improvement of their personal condition, we will offer them everything. Of course, the country will easily provide financial resources for these social transfers and for the provision of professional procedures and for the provision of new human resources, training for legal representatives of unaccompanied minors and training of refugee advisers. Let us ask ourselves how many of these minors have fled to Slovenia. A little, practically nothing. However, it is likely that we will set up a Directorate for these matters so that again some gentlemen who have no place to get involved will get a nice job and make a great salary. And there's no money for our people. There is no money for those who respect the laws, for those who work hard, for those who are not criminals, and so on. It doesn't matter to our people, it doesn't matter, it's just that we're going to go out there and that we can get hit in Europe, and when they turn away, they say, "We've never seen idiots like this before."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. In doing so, I would point out that when I announce the speaker, I will also call on the next speaker to prepare for the debate. That's how we agreed on the last College of Presidents of the National Assembly. He has the word Franco Juri, to prepare Bogdan Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u18	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. I think we are considering a topic that I cannot define as an exclusive topic for a particular category of people. Human rights are a universal category. Human rights must apply both to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and to all persons seeking asylum in democratic countries for any reason of political persecution, religious or other persecution. Slovenia joined the family of democratic European countries in 1991, became a member of the European Union before the Council of Europe, and of course it is the responsibility of the Council of Europe to take care of and follow those guidelines and those values that are increasingly being enforced in these frameworks. In this context, the democratic party's conclusion is that we have already met or met certain minimum requirements, which we have always understood and enforced very strictly and strictly downwards. Therefore, the changes we are discussing today are in fact the result of the long-standing expectations and initiatives of civil society, the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman in previous mandates, and all those who believe that minimum and effective standards of international protection of various asylum seekers must be ensured. Some argue that we do not care about our own citizens. In all crises, this government and this coalition have given the greatest attention to social buffers, namely social support. As much money as was intended for social transfers, we probably would not expect it in other countries under such conditions. And that is why, when we talk about such an important and sensitive subject, it is necessary to maintain a certain degree of responsibility for the words spoken, for the promotion of some unjustified hatred of foreigners, when they come and take something away from us, is irrelevant. It is about bringing our own legislation into line with those best practices and with the best standards already established in Europe, by allowing, what is only reasonable, legal aid at first instance in court, when asylum seekers most need legal assistance to prove and justify their application for asylum in our country. How many political asylum seekers do we have, after all, in Slovenia? Very little. We are one of the European countries with the smallest percentage of political refugees, political or other refugees. We have been in the eyes of most European countries for a rather closed country which understands these standards in the most restrictive way. That's what we did. We are not a former colonial force, and we are probably not attractive to such or other immigrants. But the fact is that in a world where injustices happen and are not solved, but in the world they are growing, where repression, war, religious intolerance and other forms of persecution are becoming, unfortunately, part of the current life, it is expected that Slovenia will be among those countries that provide standards of international protection. Nor do some people claim to care more for foreigners than for their own citizens. Look, there was a group of Bosnia and Herzegovina workers from Cazin recently in the National Assembly. These workers left Slovenia without any legal aid, without legal advice, had to leave this country because the work visa expired and did not receive up to 11 salaries, were not paid for one year's work, no one was protecting them. And even now, despite these changes, it will not be possible to ensure fair treatment of such cases. So I say that, even with this change, we will not meet all those standards of international protection that would go even in the case of defrauded workers from other republics. There will be a lot more to be done to ensure international protection for these people and not to be bullied at the border when they want to get to the prosecution in order to exercise their rights. We still have a lot of work to do, this is just the first step towards improving the situation. I hope that we will find that our country will also be, within the framework of the development assistance we offer to foreign countries, not only to Afghanistan, but also to the countries in the Balkans that are closer to us and are covered in our interest to provide this international protection through development aid instruments. So the organisation, legal aid to all those workers and migrants who lived in Slovenia who had to leave without getting the minimum wage or other income they paid. There's still a lot to do. Rightfulness to a foreign human being and respect for his human rights means the respect and right of our citizens. Without respect for those citizens, there is no respect for their own citizens. Let us not forget that those who talk the most about the risk of generous recognition of the rights of foreigners will also cut our citizens' rights tomorrow. This is, unfortunately, a trade we know from history, so it is good to warn against such temptations in this debate. As my colleague Rosjej has already said, we will support these changes and will continue to work to ensure that human rights are respected and realized as optimally as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic won't discuss it. Andrey Magain has the word. [[He's not here.]] The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. [[He's not here.]] The word is Milan Gumzar. [[He's not here. He's even excused.]] The word is Vito Rojej. Get the Flower of Zalokar Orazem ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps I would point out an aspect that seems important to me also in the light of the changes in the pension legislation that is ahead of us. It is clear that in the demographic picture we have, it will be difficult to rely only on our homework, as we would call it, on natural growth, but if some of us try so hard, we are simply not enough to have the demographic picture radically changed. And even in the past, it must be acknowledged that in the 1970s our country's economic progress, or the present area of our country, was also due to immigration. Also, the demographic picture was repaired because of immigrants of childbearing age. And it is likely that in the future we will also have to think about when we plan a pension policy, an economic policy and more. Of course, this is not an exclusive thing on which it should all be based, but for me, living three houses away from the integration house in the Ljubljana Bridges, it is perfectly logical that my three children will pay for my pension as well as I hope that either and Mary from the integration house, and I don't think this is completely wrong, even more, I think very well. So once again, it is necessary to know that prejudices against such legal solutions are based on logic that I think is best described by one poster of the Loesje group, which you may have ever tracked down on a street: How is it possible for foreigners to steal our jobs if they are not doing anything? Of course that's not true. The arguments against the law have also been broken, and I am glad that such a law is before us and I will gladly support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The flower of Zalokar Orazem will not discuss. Joseph Jerovšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you very much again. Your Honor! Here some wonder whether we are all in favour of maintaining and respecting and building an institution of political asylum. I don't think that's a question. Of course, we need to ask ourselves how we are in respect of the provision of asylum and standards in this area, what standards Slovenia has, or at this point they need to be changed, of course in relation to other countries, such as the European countries, in the environment in which we live. In our Group of Members, we believe that we have this properly regulated, that there is no need to essentially extend this right at this time, but it is certainly necessary to respect the rights of those who are politically persecuted. In this regard, it seems important to me to say that the test of how people are politically persecuted will be tested today at another point. Some here are the greatest advocates of these rights, but at the same time it seems normal for them to tolerate everything that has happened to political refugees at our borders in the past, that they have been shot like animals, and that they have no empathy at all. This is a key problem, in fact, that everything is merely politically conditioned, ideologically conditioned, and that serious problem of political asylum and detention is not in fact defined. In our Group of Members, we are extremely careful about this, extremely sensitive, and we will remain that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 11. 2010 I am putting forward the debate on Article 13 and the amendment of the SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? I find that the wishes for the debate are not, I think the amendment is more editorial. Since there is no desire to discuss it, I conclude the debate on this amendment and Article 13. We have concluded the debate on the amendment, which, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item — Defence proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the transport of dangerous goods within the framework of a shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The word has magic. Damjan Lah, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u24	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! The Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods was adopted in September 1999 in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Up to this point, it has been amended and supplemented twice, mainly in order to adapt to the amended Directives of the European Union. The Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods is a system law and regulates the transport of dangerous goods in road, rail, air and maritime transport. It lays down minimum conditions to be met by all those involved in the transport of dangerous goods in order to ensure safety, and also lays down the application of the applicable international rules under Directives of the European Union for transport within the Republic of Slovenia. These applicable international rules lay down very detailed and precise conditions for the classification, packaging and labelling of goods and the conditions to be met by drivers and means of transport. In recent years, the responsibility for the preparation of road safety regulations has been fully transferred from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Transport. The only regulation in this area for which the police or the Ministry of the Interior are still responsible is the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods. The main objective of the proposed amendments to the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods is, therefore, the transfer of competence from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Transport, namely in the area of the preparation of transport regulations, by separating the role of the person preparing the regulation and the role of the person exercising control over the applicable regulation. The control provisions, as has been said, remain at the Ministry of the Interior and do not change with the proposal for this amendment. In view of the right of delegation of powers to draw up regulations, to monitor legislation and to keep records, it is stipulated that a post with a public official shall also be transferred from the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Transport. This is actually all that this novel really brings.Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Vink Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods has been examined by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice at its 24th meeting on 4 November this year. The proponent is the government. The College of the President of the National Assembly is 8. 10. define the reduced procedure. The members and members of the committee had access to the draft law, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Regulation Council. In the course of the course of business, amendments were tabled for new Article 1a and Article 5 and Article 6a and for the new Article 6a. Mr Lah, Secretary of State, stressed the substantial changes to the law he had just presented. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Mrs Briška, presented their opinion. She said that the proposed amendments of the coalition groups followed the key comments of the legislative and legal services. The Commission of the Council of State has upheld the law and the Committee has adopted, without discussion, amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups, which I have already listed. Finally, we voted on all the articles of the bill together, including the amendments. The report and the integral text are an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Andrej Magajn. [[He's not here.]] The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Janez Kikelj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u28	Dear Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The system law governing the transport of dangerous goods in road, rail, air and maritime transport, while at the same time laying down minimum standards for ensuring safety and the application of applicable international rules or Directives of the European Union, is currently under the competence of the Ministry of the Interior. With regard to today and by the Social Democrats' Group of Ambassadors, we are also following the bill's supported amendment to the main objective, namely that the powers to prepare regulations on the transport of dangerous goods from the Ministry of Interior or the police are transferred to the Ministry of Transport. The Ministry of Transport will also take over the post in addition to the powers to draw up regulations. This means that a public official who has dealt with the problem of transporting dangerous goods to the police will continue to do so only to be employed at the Ministry of Transport. This will be done on a continuous basis. The Ministry of Transport shall also be transferred to the Ministry of Transport to maintain records of certificates issued, the qualifications of drivers of vehicles for the transport of dangerous goods by road and the records of legal persons and independent entrepreneurs who have appointed a safety adviser. By Slovenian roads and railways, and also by sea, transport is likely to be in tonnes or litres of dangerous goods each day. Assuming that all participants comply with the rules governing this area, the risk of environmental pollution is low, but we are aware that all circumstances cannot be anticipated is even less prevented. This is why it is necessary to ensure that regulations are consistently implemented and that dangerous goods are also controlled and thus prevent any ecological disasters caused by spillage, release of these substances into the ground, water or air. We will support the amendment of the law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Jožef Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Also with the proposal of the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, we are meeting for the second time in the current mandate of the National Assembly. The purpose of the proposed amendment is to transfer the power to prepare regulations on the transport of dangerous goods from the Ministry of the Interior or from the police to the Ministry of Transport, and the law will enter into force 1. 9. 2011. We attach great importance to ensuring the safety of the transport of dangerous goods in the Slovenian Democratic Party Group. The law is required for content to ensure general safety where there is a possibility of misuse of dangerous goods, for example for terrorist purposes. In addition to security measures, protection measures are also of greater importance. International regulations provide for security measures for goods for which there is a high potential for abuse for terrorist purposes. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we support all proposals that provide greater security in the transport of dangerous goods as well as greater general security. With regard to ensuring safety in the transport of dangerous goods, it is important to Article 5 of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council in the internal transport of dangerous goods, which also provides that Member States may apply stricter provisions in relation to the inland transport of goods for safety reasons. In the SDS Group, we are asking about the actual justification for the proposed transfer of power to draft regulations on the transport of dangerous goods to the Ministry of Transport in the light of the current implementation of the Act on this work. We expect that the proposed solution will not lead to a deterioration of the results in the area of general security. We will not oppose and support the proposed solutions in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. However, we expect the new competent ministry to take into account all aspects of safety in the transport of dangerous goods, certainty and the principle of legal certainty in the context of implementation, ensuring general security and greater security in the transport of dangerous goods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u32	Your Honor! The Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods regulates the carriage of dangerous goods in road, rail, air and maritime transport and lays down minimum conditions for ensuring safety in such transport. The law also lays down the application of applicable international rules which regulate the carriage of dangerous goods in the field of road transport, the European Agreement on International Road Transport, Rail Transport, the Convention on International Carriage by Rail, Maritime Transport, the International Convention on the Safety of Containers, Air Transport, the Convention on International Civil Aviation and the Transport of Nuclear Material, the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, the Joint Convention on the Safety of used Fuel Management and the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods is the last regulation in the field of road safety, which will transfer the powers to draw up regulations from the Ministry of Interior or the police to the Ministry of Transport, as regulated in most other European countries. The transfer of powers would allow for the separation of powers between the legislative and supervisory functions of national authorities. The proposed amendment to the law follows the principles of the basic law, namely the principle of proportionality, the principle of causation and the principle of prevention. Given that there were no comments to the professional public in the process of drafting the law and that the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly have been duly taken into account in the procedure for examining the draft law on the Committee on Internal Policy and the Public Administration and Justice and that the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly have been duly taken into account, and that the law has also been unanimously supported by the Commission of the State Council for State Arrangements, we are assessing in the Slovenian People's Party that the proposed amendments are necessary and useful and that we will therefore support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be moved by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honorable representative of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by saying that in the DeSUS Group we will support this proposal for a new law. The main objective of these changes is to transfer from the Ministry of Interior and Police to the Ministry of Transport, which we consider necessary and will be followed by the DeSUS Group. The Ministry of Transport will also keep records of issued certificates of training of vehicles and drivers for the transport of dangerous goods in road transport and of legal persons and independent entrepreneurs designated for the transport of this dangerous cargo. As we say, in the DeSUS Group we welcome this novel and will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u36	Dear Mr. President, the Secretary of State! The proposal for a law on the transport of dangerous goods was proposed by the Government on the basis of Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly following a reduced procedure, since it is exclusively less difficult to amend and supplement the law. In particular, it is the transfer of the competence to the Ministry of the Interior to the Ministry of Transport to prepare regulations on the transport of dangerous goods. This is a law that was adopted in 1999 and has been supplemented twice so far to comply with the directives of the European Union, in particular in order to increase the effectiveness of the implementation of the law. The law regulates the transport of dangerous goods in road, air and maritime transport. The law lays down all conditions for safe and smooth traffic in the transport of dangerous goods, is harmonised and provides for the application of the applicable international rules under the 2008 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council, which also deals with the transport of dangerous goods within the Republic of Slovenia. So far, the Ministry of Transport has been entrusted with the area of security, only in the part where it refers to the transport of dangerous goods is the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Nor will it change significantly in the future, except in the part where the decision on the preparation of rules for the transport of dangerous goods is being made, which will be the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport. The proposed amendment will distinguish between the legislative and supervisory functions of the state authorities. The law follows the mandatory consideration of safety measures at all stages of the transport of dangerous goods, the training of all persons involved in the transport of dangerous goods and liability in the event of damage. It is therefore a system law that preserves the validity of international rules also for transport within the Republic of Slovenia. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE Tax Procedure Act, REQUIRED PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I should give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister, but I am informed that the Minister is not yet in the National Assembly, so we continue to do so. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President of the Council of Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held in the framework of the 29th urgent meeting of 12.11. 2010 was treated as a parent labour body by the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act. The law in question was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration by the Government, with a proposal for consideration and adoption following an urgent procedure, which was confirmed by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its meeting of 15. 11. 2010 The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which makes specific comments on 6, 15, 17, 19, 20, 21, 23, 25 and 29 of the legislative proposal, together with a forecast of nomotechnical improvements in the final edition. The amendments on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service have been tabled by four coalition groups: SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS on 6, 15, 17, 19, 20, 21, on the new 21st articles, on 23, 25 and 29 of the legislative proposal, and by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group on the deletion of Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 14, 15, 24 and 26 of the legislative proposal. According to the representative of the Government, the main law is to support or regulate procedural provisions which are in general relation to the material content of the Income Bill. In doing so, the text introduces changes in the rate of payment or the deferral of public benefits in respect of contributions of health or pension insurance by limiting such provisions to the area of so-called net taxes with certain restrictions on those taxable persons granted by the Tax Administration to them. Since, for a period of time when the debtor was allowed to defer or to pay the interest rate, the possibility to pay the interest rate at a lower rate than the market rate is presented in order to avoid treatment in accordance with the law governing State aid and the consequent complications in tax practice of such an interest rate are newly established by increasing it. At the same time, the text introduces the consequences of the delay in payment of individual instalments in order to ensure a greater payment discipline for the debtors, the possibility of remunerating the tax liability by changing the interest rate for the duration of the deferred or interest payments, the competence of the tax office to issue the enforcement decision by entering the debtor into the tax register and the arrangements for the calculation of the payment of the income for the other incomes referred to in Article 70 of the Income Act. At the time of consideration, the committee adopted the above amendments to the legislative proposal of the coalition groups, whereas the amendments for the deletion of the species were not adopted by the SDS Group. The Committee then voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law in which those amendments are incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bogdan Čepič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Procedure Act is the actual operationalisation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Act, which the National Assembly has already considered and will probably be adopted today. The supplement to the Income Act provides for a premium on agricultural subsidies after a new one for 2010, which is in line with the Ombudsman's warnings on the inappropriateness of the method of determining income from agricultural subsidies on the basis of average amounts and with the requirements of the debtors for amendments in their view of the unfair way in which they determine this income. The law regulates the procedure for calculating the deduction of income for payments under the measures of the agricultural policy and other State aid, which are taxed in actual amounts for actual recipients following the proposal for amendments to the Income Act. It is proposed that the payment of the remuneration of the payer for agricultural policy measures be made by the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development in the Republic of Slovenia, as a rule, at the same time as the payment of this income. A supplement is also in place to allow agricultural economies wishing to keep their business books and pay their income on the basis of a real surplus from income to report it to the tax office by 31 January 2011 and not until 31 October of the current year for the following year and to apply effectively from 1 January 2011 onwards for the tax year 2011. The amendments to the Tax Procedure Act, together with the changes in income, also allow a taxable person, a non-resident, a performing operator or a sportsman or a cultural creator who does not have a business unit in Slovenia and therefore cannot apply the actual costs of calculating the tax, to apply certain actual costs in determining the tax base instead of standardised costs. It is possible to apply those costs which are fully and directly attributed to individual activities, income taxed by tax evasion in Slovenia. In such cases, the Tax Procedure Act therefore provides for a way of applying the actual costs. The draft law regulates the consequences of the delay in payment of individual taxes in such a way that, in the event that the debtors miss payment of the individual instalment, all others authorised and the non-Western instalments are immediately paid on the day of the outstanding instalment. This ensures that the tax liability is paid as well as an incentive for taxpayers to pay more responsibly the agreed obligations when they are allowed to pay in instalments as aid to the taxpayer and to fulfil their tax liability. The fulfilment of a tax obligation under the Tax Procedure Act is a fundamental obligation of the taxable person to fulfil it irrespective of his other obligations. The bill also contains individual editorial corrections necessary to avoid confusion and difficulties in its implementation. The amendments tabled by the SDS Parliamentary Group will not be supported by the Group of Social Democrats. For that reason, the parliamentary group will fully support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Rado Likar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you very much, once again, for your word. Nice greeting, Secretary of State! We do not support the Law on the Tax Procedure in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party and we will vote against the law. We are opposed to a solution whereby natural and legal persons who, for reasons which could not be affected, have been granted a ring payment of taxes will be abolished if they are to be late for payment of each meal. We believe that the sanctions are excessive and disproportionate, even in times of economic crisis, which is the most important reason why those persons do not miss payment for their own fault. We are also opposed to the provision whereby a taxable person who is granted a deferral or interest payment of a tax liability is paid with an interest rate for the calculation of State aid instead of a European interbank interest rate as before. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are convinced that this is another provision of this government, which, at the expense of the most vulnerable and weak, is the full state budget. We are also opposed to the provision setting out the time limits by which members of a farmer's household should notify the tax authority how to determine the tax base of basic agricultural and forestry activities and then start applying the tax base on the basis of actual revenues and standardised expenditure. This provision, in our view, for these households, means that they will have to use, or pay, a demanding double bookkeeping to determine the tax base for these services to the accounting service, amounting to around EUR 2 000 per year. We believe that there is a severe and unnecessary additional financial and administrative burden on farmers, so we propose that the current regime, whereby farmers decide on their own way of managing business books or identifying the tax base, remains in force. Finally, we are also opposed to a provision allowing a foreigner or a non-resident who is a performing contractor or an athlete to impose certain actual costs instead of standard costs in determining the tax base, because in our opinion he places Slovenian athletes and musicians or cultural workers in a worse position. In the SDS Group, we have tabled amendments to the articles that can be amended. I call on MPs to support them, and by doing so, they will ease this harmful law a little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u44	Your Honor! There are several reasons for amending and supplementing the Tax Procedure Act. Most of these, as well as the proposer, support the proposed amendments to the Income Act or make those necessary procedural provisions that enable the implementation of the substantive novelties of the Act. In particular, it is a more relaxed way or a system of contingencies that will prevent taxpayers from paying relatively high fees at the expense of their income, since they are expected to pay their obligations during the year. Here we have in mind the impact of economic policy measures in particular. Secondly, tax treatment of pension pensions is more favourable, thereby encouraging savings for age and somehow preventing the negative effects of savings in single amounts. With the Income Act or its novelty, the taxable person, the non-resident, the performing operator or the athlete who does not have a business unit in the Republic of Slovenia, is able to determine the tax base with actual costs instead of the standardised ones, with those that can be attributed to individual activities. The way in which actual costs are applied is determined by the law under consideration. In practice, however, things in this area are above average, they slide out of hand, and we can talk about evasion and avoidance of payment of tax obligations. The second part of the amendments is related to the possibilities for a more favourable way of fulfilling taxpayers' tax obligations, I am thinking mainly of the decision to pay and the interest payment of tax liabilities. The current regime has also proved to be limitedly effective in the light of the difficult economic situation, because I am and there is an abuse of the current regime. The draft law therefore regulates the consequences of the delay in payment of individual taxes, namely that, in the event that the debtors miss payment of the individual instalment, all others are granted and the instalments not yet due are immediately due on the day of the outstanding instalment. Is the solution really encouraging payment discipline, as it is written? Is it really a solution to the voluntary payment of taxes and tax culture, of course, an open question that will be answered by the dynamics of tax returns and the scope of tax debt. We believe that this is a very complex issue in the parliamentary group. The proposal also contains some logical solutions related to tax enforcement, such as the cashing of insurance, in particular real ones, and not least that enforcement procedures for the same taxable person are carried out at the same place or tax office. The Parliamentary Group will indeed support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! We will not support the proposed law in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. We do not understand that in the times we are in, the government comes into the parliamentary procedure by law, the sole purpose of which is to fill the state treasury. For more than one year, payment discipline has been assessed for one of the biggest and most important problems of the Slovenian economy. What have we done in this area? Not much. On the contrary, the Government comes before the National Assembly with a proposal for a law that says, in its explanation, I quote, "...the current economic situation is also negative in the area of public finances. In particular, the determination of the possibility of a more favourable way of fulfilling tax obligations for business operators was found to be less effective than expected in the scratch. Therefore, the draft law regulates the consequences of the delay in payment of individual taxes in such a way that, in the event that the debtors miss payment of each instalment, all others granted and the non-Western instalments are immediately paid on the day of the outstanding maturity. This ensures the payment of tax liabilities, as well as the encouragement of the taxpayers to pay their obligations voluntarily", the end of the quote. Taxpayers would be encouraged to pay their obligations voluntarily by providing them with the payment of their services or supplies within normal time limits. However, instead of listening to the problem of payment non-discipline, the state prefers to solve its cash register, on the shoulders of those who suffer the greatest consequences. The fact that the economy operates on the principle of trade is not really an interest of anyone. 120, 150-day payment deadlines, if they are realized in the final stage, of course they are not interested in anyone. However, an undertaking or an individual who, precisely because of the problem of payment non-discipline and not because of its negligence or uneconomic conduct, lacks the means to pay the tax liability, is not interested in anyone. Of course, the state cash register is the only thing that matters. This is now the biggest problem of the Slovenian state. It is sad that this is true, but in some other, of course, a completely different context, which I try to expose all the time, but it doesn't sound. Rather than address the issue of payment non-discipline, we will destroy some new businesses and individuals. It is more than obvious that this law was written by bureaucrats, who are only some kind of company from the highway when they passed by by car. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are opposed to such bureaucratic and limited logic and will oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Foreign Pensioners will be moved by Franz Jurš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the basic tax procedure law is essential in essence because of the proposed amendments to the income legislation relating to the treatment of income from basic agricultural and forestry activities, the tax treatment of pensions and the tax treatment of income generated by residents, performers, operators and athletes. From a procedural point of view relating to tax methods and methods of charging taxes, it is also necessary to accede to the adoption of this tax law in order to enable the implementation of the provisions laid down in the Material Tax Law in the Income Act. The DeSUS Group has already announced support for these amendments in the discussion of the proposal for a new Income Act, and we will also support amendments to this basic law, which in fact only technically allows solutions to be applied in practice and in particular implemented. However, the second part of the amendments concerns provisions allowing for the payment of the tax debt by hand. Here we believe that the proposed solutions are more than appropriate, since, despite the fact that the remuneration is still envisaged, some guardians have introduced into the law which allow or make possible the possible default of this debt. It provides for the obligation of the tax authority to monitor the situation of the taxable person, and the tax authority also has the possibility of seeking to enforce its claims before the commencement of the procedure due to the insolvency of the taxable person. We are all aware of the fact and damage caused by the state treasury liabilities to the State. The proposed solutions also constitute a step towards the recovery of this problem, so our members of our Group are fully acceptable and will therefore be unanimously supported by the proposed amendment to the Tax Procedure Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u50	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary of State! Every time we read the laws, we look at the reasons for adoption and the objectives. And the aim of this law is, as it puts it, "the main objective or basis of the bill is transparency, legal certainty and the prevention of the negative consequences of the financial and economic crisis on the public finances system". The only sentence I really believe is real. Of course he does. But the point is, who's it for? For the public finances system. Unfortunately, I will try to present our position, which is, of course, negative to this law, very plastic. We have already heard that in this part of the Act, it intervenes as a result of delays in the payment of individual taxes, so that in the event that the debtors miss payment of each instalment, all other approved and non-Western instalments are immediately paid. Article 3(3) It's a practical case. Janez Novak, a worker at company X, is expected to pay 15 a month. According to the height of the salary, we know that most of these people survive on salaries from month to month. X didn't pay Janez Novak. This is already a national sport in the country of the Republic of Slovenia. Janez Novak couldn't pay for a late meal because he didn't have any money because the company didn't pay him. And to thank you for working to get laid, according to homework, not getting paid by the employer, he's gonna have to pay for all the meals. Article 4(4) Legal persons. X works well, delivers goods in the deadlines, where we are again at Slovenian national sport, which is a non-discipline of payments, and again stretching the deadlines from 60 to 90 or not paying at all. The company doesn't have that kind of liquid assets, it's not going to be able to pay a meal and it's going to have to pay all the meals for the penalty. And if we continue: if this company has an secured claim or claim for which a interest payment secured by a flag right has been allowed, the story here is even more interesting. If you don't pay the first meal, the company has to pay all the meals, if it doesn't pay all the meals, they're gonna take that property he pawned right away. No words. That's the truth. This is the pure truth that this law brings because it was written by someone who has no idea what's going on in life. And until we have arranged for the payment deadlines to be respected, employers to respect their basic duties and pay the worker for the work done, and until this country arranges that his fundamental right to work will also be fulfilled to the worker, it is a payment for work, until then it is stupidity and uglyness for people to adopt such a law. And those poor people who actually hunt from month to month and pay their obligations, including this, will be torn down to the end. This is not fair for the Slovenian National Party, it is not fair and it is quite clear that this country is to blame in this case because it has not regulated payment disciplines because it does not have instruments to sanction non-payments, such as payment deadlines or salaries. We will not support such a law in the Slovenian National Party in any way. Therefore, we will not support the Income Act, which in some way as a material law, is bound by this procedural law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act is, in large part, a twin act of the proposed amendment to the Income Act – in particular in the works relating to taxation of agricultural subsidies, taxation of professional athletes and in the amendment of the Income Act, the proposed possibility of applying a reduced rate of pension adjustment. As far as the tax procedure itself is concerned, the biggest amendment to the proposed law is to provide for a sanction in the area of the interest payment of the tax debt, in the event of default or the delay of one instalment, for all the following instalments to be paid. As is generally known, taxpayers who are unable to fulfil their obligations may be allowed to pay their tax liability in return. As the Government points out, in practice, it is often the case that the debtors are late in paying or not paying for their meals. The penalty for the maturity of all instalments is also particularly important in terms of the cashing-up of insurance, since the tax authority cannot use the own claims mechanisms effectively if the liabilities of the following instalments are not due. In addition, the amendment of the law changes the interest rate for legal persons where the European Interbank Rate is replaced by the applicable reference rate for the calculation of State aid, since otherwise the lower interest rate would constitute unlawful or non-notified State aid. At the LDS, we agree with such a change of law, because we believe that effective mechanisms must be put in place to secure claims, especially in these times. As already mentioned, part of the law also refers to the application of the possibility of applying actual costs to performing operators or non-resident athletes instead of applying standardised costs. We support this solution at the LDS, because we believe that only the actual exercise of costs and revenues is fair and fair. At the same time, we believe that it is also right to maintain an easier possibility of applying standardised costs. The novelty of the tax procedure law also relates to the proposal of the amended Income Act, which provides for the calculation of income from agricultural and forestry activities on the basis of imputation of actual subsidies and no longer of average subsidies. It is therefore necessary to regulate a specific method of calculating the income where the tax authority will determine the tax base on the basis of actual income, while also setting up a specific system for those who have paid an income advance on the basis of the average amounts of subsidies. In the LDS, we support this solution because we believe that the average of subsidies was inappropriate in terms of fairness, as well as in terms of agricultural development, because today they were mostly large farms, while the average cost was borne by smaller farms. In view of all the above, we will support the law at the LDS Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! This is the way we deal with a law that changes very often. In the last four years, this has been the eighth attempt to amend and supplement the law, and it should be noted once again that it is a law that responds to changes in other substantive laws and allows them to be implemented. This time, the Government follows the assessment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members – Solidarity to some of the objectives that we want to highlight. First time. It is a matter of establishing a different attitude towards the economy at a time when individual economic operators face difficulties in settling their tax obligations, settling the obligation to pay contributions. However, it is not that the borders are as harsh as some have represented them, but it is also a matter of some discretional rights — I will mention them later — that are mitigating a very strict attitude towards those who fail to settle taxes in a timely manner. The government responds to these difficulties with the possibility of being paid by hand, as well as with the option of deferral under special conditions. The other of the objectives that are set and explicitly stated is to contribute to the reduction of payment non-discipline, which is probably necessary, in particular due to trends in this area, due to the situation we are in. Also because of the situation in which they are public treasury. Greater fairness is a third of the objectives that we see in this bill, namely, the payment of income payments in the field of agriculture and those involved in sports or cultural activities. And fourth, very important, the goal is for the Government to try to make this bill possible to realize what the Income Act entails in promoting savings for old age, through tax ratings. As it is known that the crisis has not yet fallen apart, that payment chains are being cut down, that debt is increasing, that it is not ordered as much as it wants, the result is also a negative trend in the rise of tax debts. It is an active debt and also an extra-balance sheet debt and statistical data, and it is projected that this total debt of both categories will be close to one billion this year. It is clear that all measures must be taken at all possible ends in order to make this negative trend as angry as possible. This is what the Government is trying to do with this proposal, which would allow those who have opted for a ring payment, and within a period of time they cannot pay current payments, so that at that point all the rations will fall and the collateral for these meals will fall. However, those who recover may be discretionaryly determined and deferred if they find that objections to enforcement may also be justified. There's still a valve here to make sure everything doesn't stop at the first moment when the first meal isn't paid. Of course, for those for whom there is no hope that these payments will be paid, this firm measure is, however, appropriate, because otherwise the tax debts will increase as mentioned earlier. As far as fairness is concerned, we would like to mention, above all, greater fairness when actual benefits are being applied both in the field of agriculture and in the field of this estral or sporting activity. Since there is a lot of controversy about how unfair this is in the agricultural field, we would like to point out that it is fair for the vast majority of the smaller farmers who are liable to pay the tax, for those who are the richest, probably not. That is why we will support the basic proposal of the law and the amendments will not receive our support.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles of the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the 19th Amendment Review. 11. 2010 I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? More debaters. I'll make an application. I'm asking you to sign up. The Secretary of State also called. The word is Willy Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you very much, President. I would just like to ask the Secretary of State, because I have been running out of time before, or I understand the right proposal of the law, because I understand it differently than one of the groups of Members. The amendment also refers to the fact that natural and legal persons are now taxed at the same rate. I understand the proposal for a law so that natural persons pay interest at this interbank rate in the EU, with a one-year deadline, that legal persons, only legal persons, pay these interest at the rate applied by the European Commission and applicable to state aid. If it is true that the law represents this, then this amendment is in fact irrelevant, because it does not concern the content it is writing about.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. The Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled an amendment to Article 6, as this Article is being substantially amended. Taxpayers allow a strong tax return. This Article, however, substantially changes for all taxpayers, civilians, economic operators, so that the interest rate changes to the calculation of State aid, which is a significantly higher interest rate. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party believe that in these times of crisis it is not the time for such a drastic increase in this interest rate, because we ourselves know that in the economic situation we are in Slovenia now, employers are actually late with wages and that citizens and citizens will have significantly higher costs in paying interest. That is why we have tabled an amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party because Article 6 of the Act is not acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The text is by Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u60	Your Honor! With regard to the proposed amendment, I would first of all like to confirm Mr Rezman's reasoning or statement on the different treatment of debts or interest payments or the deferral of taxes on natural persons and legal persons. For natural persons — individuals with a tax debt paid by or on hand for which payment is deferred — nothing changes according to the applicable law. In the event of a suspension or payment of interest, they shall continue to be subject to payment of this deferred or interest-paying debt at a European inter-bank interest rate of one year, at the rate applicable on the date of issue of the deferral or periodic payment decision. However, the essential amendment introduced by this provision under the law in force is the amendment relating to economic operators and the tax debts of economic operators. The fact is that in the event of a delay or a round payment to economic operators without charging an appropriate market interest rate, these economic operators would be in a position to receive State aid. I do not argue that this State aid would in any event be unlawful, even if it were allowed, this would lead to a number of administrative complications mainly for the debtors who would require a deferral or a payment of interest. In order to avoid such a situation, the Government, in its proposal for a law, suggested that for cases of tax debts whose interest payment or deferral is granted to economic operators, the interest rate should be set at a level equal to the applicable reference rate for the calculation of State aid. This is the standard set by the European Commission when it assesses whether a measure intended for a specific group is treated as State aid or not in our case of taxpayers. In this way, we will provide economic operators who will pay their tax obligations by hand, or they will be deferred to be able to make this deferral or interest payment administratively not too demanding to pay for this debt a lower interest rate than a late interest rate. It is true, however, that this reference rate for the calculation of State aid is slightly higher than the interbank interest rate for loans of one year's duration applicable to natural persons. With this explanation, I would like to point out that the Government of the proposed amendment cannot support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. Mr. Marjan Bezjak has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you for your clarification, Madam Secretary of State. Look, we're now going back to that part of the lives of taxpayers or economic operators, as we used to be. Then also, state subsidised interest rates should be on the part of the economy so that you can pay this interest rate, which is now drastically higher. When taxpayers have their assets invested in the bank, the bank gives the interest rate almost zero. If, as you now claim, you are forced under European law to give a slightly higher interest rate for these economic operators, this is in fact an interest rate for granting State aid. Believe that each undertaking, when currently having a financial problem with the payment of its obligations to the State, is then. probably economic operators decide to postpone the payment which is an obligation to the State. I don't see or I don't know a company that actually has money, but I would ask for a postponement of payment, but I'm sure everyone is morally committed to making it as soon as possible if they can't make it up to the state as quickly as possible. It is therefore my view and the view of the economists that it is unwise in this situation to raise the interest rate of the State to those who cannot pay taxes to the State. We ourselves know that payments between economic operators are 90, 120 days or several months, and we need to know to the country that they are 30-day deadlines. Therefore, you need to know that you are further deconstructing economic operators, the economic sector and putting additional burdens on the economic sector by this law. We have therefore decided and tabled an amendment to Article 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have decided to try to change the direction of changes in tax legislation, including this particular law, mainly because of the simple fact that we believe that there is a need to create more favourable conditions for the development of the economy through tax policy, but not to further aggravate this condition. We are in a time of economic crisis, when economic activity is not only in Slovenia but also elsewhere quite suffocated. All the forecasts of domestic and foreign institutions for Slovenia say that there will be no rapid recovery, there will be no mention of a worthwhile recovery in the coming period, that we will be spending around 1 to 2% of economic growth, and that economic growth only drives the economy and no one else. At the same time, however, we are facing a host of problems caused by heavy economic activity. Inflows into public cash registers from a pedestrian economy are particularly dented. We have a problem with health bills, we have a problem with pensions, we have a problem with the budget, not least because there are fewer tax inflows on behalf of economic operators and, last but not least, the resulting consumption, because some purchasing power of people also depends on the economy, if wages are regular, good, then people have money, they spend. If the situation is favourable, the economy shall invest. So it is very dependent on this economic climate how it will be in different areas with Slovenia in the future. And a static view that the argument that the current financial problem is a cashier before long-term or medium-term economic policy raising economic activity is, of course, a static assessment that has already proven to be a failure many times. This is very similar, you know, and then, as a result, the tax burdens are on the way up, excise duties are on the way up, the conditions in the area of tax payments and interest-paying taxes are tightened, and the delays in paying taxes, as we are considering today, are increasing interest, as this amendment specifically says. I would therefore like to say that it is not the right time to further tighten the operating conditions of economic operators, but it is time for the opposite, to take measures to promote the economy, to reduce taxes, to better and, lastly, to eliminate payment non-discipline and so on. The government forgets this, and we are again and again filled with proposals that further burden those of whom we promise to employ and pay taxes and contributions in Slovenia in the future. Your Honor, I think such a policy is wrong. And the amendment that we have proposed goes in the direction of easing and reducing not least the interest where the economy is already paying hard. If someone is late, if someone is a taxpayer, it is certainly not because he wants to be, but he probably has serious problems with it. However, if someone speculates on this, he must not even reach this instrument so that any payment can be postponed. That is why I would like to stress and say to the Government that I have here before me a secretary of state to consider measures going in the other direction. I hear that there is a call between economic operators, 'join a tax reduction association', that this will grow into a political party and that this political party's programme will be such that it gathers and animates people who believe what I want to convince the Government – that with lower taxes it can collect more taxes. You don't believe that, and I believe that with lower taxes you can collect more taxes. With lower taxes, we promote economic activity, and more and more of the volume of business, we are collecting a lower rate of taxes, but in the end, there may be more taxes collected. This is the logic in which you don't believe in the government, and I believe in it because it also has multiple effects this logic on people – people who are employed, pay taxes, don't receive transfers from the cash register, pay contributions, which is why the full pension box is, and not least, also health care, and it is necessary to pay less public funds from the budget to cover the losses of these cash registers. Not to mention how it affects if someone is employed and has a solid salary, on their purchasing power, when they buy something, invests and pays VAT again. The money invested in the economy is paid several times in public cash registers. You don't understand this in this unfortunate government and you don't want to apply it into our legal order and you come before us with laws such as this one that is additionally burdening economic operators who have also been in a situation of crisis when they cannot settle their tax obligations regularly, have delays and are now paying interest. I think that those who can't, don't who don't want, who can't, are getting more and more – and if such a policy is to be in the future, there will be more. Therefore, for God's sake, please consider the proposals that come from all sides, and especially come from the economy to listen to this simple farm logic – if a farmer wants autumn harvest, he must sow in the spring or even winter. Even if he doesn't have the money, he has to borrow it for the seed, otherwise he won't want it. And your Government will also have to invest something in the economy if it wants to "suck" this expected economic growth, jobs and taxes and contributions. Otherwise, there'll be nothing. And we've been proving this to you for two years. And for two years you plan to increase economic activity, and then you see that there will be no and then the expected inflow through budget rebalancies and so on. Once again, please go between people, among economic operators, face their problems, and you will see that you will write something quickly, which will also help the economy, not only make business conditions more difficult in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The text is by Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you very much again for your word. Nevertheless, I would like to focus on the amendment and not comment on the general debate we have witnessed. Nevertheless, I must conclude that the arguments change very interestingly in the light of the circumstances in which they need to be used. Not long ago, we discussed how measures should be taken to ensure better collection of taxes, which will ensure that more taxes are collected under existing tax legislation and how we need to be concerned about ensuring adequate inflows into the state budget. When we prepare essentially certain measures that give the tax authority a basis for action, we are in fact faced with reverse criticism, that we do not guarantee, or that we do not have in mind, that we do not have solutions to ensure that we have better management conditions. However, we are talking about an article that talks about interest on a tax debt and we are talking about a comparison between a taxpayer who has not settled his debt and a taxpayer who pays his debts on a regular basis. And I personally believe that those economic operators who regularly pay their tax obligations are obliged to take account of their situation and that we are obliged in tax legislation to provide measures, procedures and ways that will not place those who do not pay taxes in a more favourable position, but those who regularly settle them. And the repayment of the debt in respect of which I have been granted a ring payment or deferral is intended for that very purpose. Let us therefore pay attention to economic operators who regularly settle their obligations. Let us compare their situation with those that do not comply with their obligations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Just a mag. A visor. Here you go, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u68	I'm gonna be a little short. It is true, the Secretary of State, that we have repeatedly called for effective collection of taxes due to these speakers, but that where entities avoid their obligations under the applicable rules, there is little where they are even looking for circuits, they even establish certain postal collectors and thus avoid any controls. Last but not least, you also have among your kind, in government, a minister who owns a company or co-owner of a company called the 'kaselc company'. I just want to say that this is one story. Effective collection of taxes or collection of what the State is doing according to the rules in force. Secondly, whether or not tax conditions are further exacerbated by the amendment of the legislation, and in this case, as interest is raised where there is a legal finding or, I would say, a legal right to payment of interest. That's where it's pulling in. The articles had also referred to different, more stringent terms of this remuneration, if not settled in due time. It's like these companies are doing this for speculation. It doesn't start because of speculation. Many today, when faced and not paid in the chain, cannot settle their tax obligations because they cannot settle anything, nor can they pay their employees. On the contrary, I am not talking about the government, but certain state institutions are even encouraging this way. I'll give you an example. We have a procedure for selecting the contractor to build the accumulation pool at the Krško hydropower plant. This invitation was opened by a whole set of companies, including one of the largest Slovenian construction companies, which is also lobbyed by the President of the Government in Libya. This company did not sign up as a mother to this business, but it did apply to its subsidiary, which has absolutely no ties and no references from similar businesses. That is why Mother used her references and thus hid her shortcomings regarding the failure to settle a timely obligation to subcontractors and so on. And the State Audit Commission, because the contracting authority did not select this firm, although it was the cheapest, because it had made dumping and, in fact, an offer based on the non-payment of subcontractors and suppliers, so this particular company was chosen, this subsidiary and thus the State legalised, czech, do so also to others: do not settle the obligation, because there are no sanctions, even though we have adopted laws here that say that they are being eliminated, I would like to say, a respected State Secretary that a formal and informal climate is being created in this country, that these deviations are allowed and even rewarded. That's not good. The additional aggravation of the situation created by this article will not contribute to the economic climate being better, but rather to the opposite. Tax debts are likely to increase further as interest is higher and businesses are likely to be in even greater trouble. That's why I pointed out what I said. You've seen it as some general talk. Yes, any intervention in tax regulation is an intervention under the conditions of business in that country. And the conditions of business in this country must be improved, not made worse, that's what I wanted to tell you. With this bill, you further aggravate the conditions of business in this country. Not for those who settle taxes on a regular basis, you are right, but for those who cannot settle them regularly and ask for a deferral and may happen to them, they may also be disappointed in this deferred payment of taxes. We're talking about those today, and that's the law for them. And if your tax office can't separate between those who do it speculatively and those who actually can't, and in fact those who can't do it additionally are punished, the problem is. And here I want to distract you from this deepening problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 6 and the amendment to this Article? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate and put to the debate Article 15 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] Then I shall put to the debate Article 29 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Please, Mr. Bezjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The event in Parliament in two years is, the apparatus works and in fact no amendments have been adopted by us. Therefore, in Article 29, we ask and have tabled an amendment that this law does not enter into force with 1. 1. 2011 and to be extended to good years when the economy breathes when the economy is in good condition. As we have already tabled an amendment to Article 6, the economy in Slovenia is in poor shape. If the law actually enters into force with 1. 1. In 2011, when the Prime Minister himself predicts that the first quarter of 2011 will be even worse than this year, we see no reason to put an additional burden on the economy since 1. 1. 2011.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u71	Thank you. Mrs. Vrančnik, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I would like to clarify the position on the amendment to Article 29. We do not support the amendment, in contrast to the article as set out in the amended bill. The amendment foresees that Articles 3 and 4 of the Act would only apply once the gross social product growth of 3 % would be achieved. Sections 3 and 4 of the Act refer to the consequences if a taxable person who is granted a ring payment does not pay an individual instalment and thus the possibility arises that the tax authority recovers or begins recovery proceedings for all outstanding instalments. It is interesting that the amendment proposing to postpone the application of Articles 3 and 4 thus amending paragraphs 101 and 102, while allowing the amendment to Article 103, which refers to the same matter and amends Articles 103, to take effect as from 1 January 2010. This would result in some illogical difference in the payment of debts, depending on which legal basis is applied to legal persons — or paragraphs 102 or 103 — and also to certain natural persons. We do not believe that this distinction is appropriate. As I have mentioned, this provision does not mean that it will be necessary to pay the entire debt without delay, but rather constitutes a legal basis on which the Tax Administration may initiate recovery procedures for the entire outstanding debt. What happens to this debt at the time of recovery, or the debtor — the natural person, the cases mentioned earlier — even comes into the situation that it can apply instead of being able to pay interest for the cancellation of its tax liability, that is, of course, a matter of a tax procedure that is ongoing. These articles allow the tax authority to effectively initiate recovery proceedings if the individual instalment of the tax interest is not paid. I will repeat the same thing, as I have said before, we need to compare those who collect or pay taxes in due time with those who do not pay them, and we need to put them in the same situation somehow, otherwise we are in a situation where those who pay their tax obligations regularly are in a worse situation than those who are granted a remuneration and do not settle it, because then we do not have to work out any recovery into unpaid debt. Let me mention just this to conclude that this institution, to immediately pay the whole outstanding debt, is not something special or extraordinary. In civil law such a case or procedure, we also know such arrangements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 29 and the amendment to this Article? No, then I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the outset, this is a proposal for a law on development support for the Koroška region in the period 2012-2016. The draft law was tabled by a group of 20 Members and Members, first signed by Mir Petko. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the bill-makers, Mr Mir Petk. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the SDS Group, we tabled a proposal for a law on the development support of the region in the period 2012-2016 due to the major economic and development problems facing the region. This is not the first time that the Carinthia region has been in such great troubles as the result of a large number of unemployment and social hardships. Due to the collapse of the Yugoslav market in the early 1990s, it became a major problem for the level ironworks or the Slovenian ironworks in general. Today it is the Slovenian steel industry, which has been saved with about half a billion euro of state resources. With the rehabilitation of the Slovenian ironworks, the truths were mostly saved by Slovenian banks, and some are receiving a nice rent today from this rehabilitation. Now in Koroška, there was a breakdown of the Prevent system, which collapsed due to predatory mentality and the low moral standards of its owners, and more than 200 employees found themselves on the road. Indeed, in recent weeks some of them have already received quite unreliable jobs for a short and limited period of time. In Koroška, they say that the most notorious Korean tycoons were all they had, stole, only certificates and diplomas they bought. For theft and economic crime, no one persecuted them, as the law enforcement authorities for modest participation in this looted property did not follow them, but gave them some kind of immunity. Now they have slipped off the 100 richest Slovenian scale and left behind an economic desert in Koroška. Korošice and Korošci, as such, are not to blame for the fact that some individuals have also been in such a major crisis. With the help of this law, a way out of this crisis is announced. By adopting this law, the state will show that it does not care how and what is happening in Koroška, what is its development, what are the social pressures of the people. This will be a message from Ljubljana that people in Koroška still have the hope that it is worth insisting on at this end of Slovenian land and that they are not forgotten by the state and authority. Wages in Koroška are below the national average. Unemployment is above the national average. The standard of Korošcev is below the national average. Poverty is above the national average. The quality of life in Koroška is below the national average. The rate of suicide, as one of the indicators of social problems, is above the national average. Not only that, the suicide rate is at the European summit itself. This law is only a good half of what Slovenia will use to help Greece. The total value of the various state aid for the Korean region is EUR 222.2 million during the duration of the Law, of which EUR 28.2 million for the Competitiveness Promotion Programme. As unemployment has reached 15% and in some administrative units almost 18%, and some economic shocks are still promising, there are 58 million euro earmarked for employment incentives there by 2016. EUR 25 million is foreseen for the establishment of a regional economic centre. For an inter-enterprise education centre of EUR 2 million. For the restructuring and enhancement of the competitiveness of agriculture and forestry, food and manufacturing industries and the diversification of non-agricultural activities, a total of EUR 34 million and a further EUR 75 million for waste water treatment and drinking water infrastructure. In Koroška there are healthy economic cores, there are innovative individuals in Koroška and with appropriate state aid these companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, could be further developed. Our proposal for a law follows faithfully in the National Assembly already adopted by the Law on Development Assistance to Pomure, changing only in the reasoning and reasons for the adoption of this law. The government, together with its President, Borut Pahor, after the adoption of the Development Assistance Act for Pomurje, has repeatedly stressed and stressed that this law has already produced good results and that it is right that we have adopted it. We could agree on that. The decision to adopt a similar development aid law should not be problematic for the region of Korea, nor should it be difficult. I think that this experiment, good practice, can also be applied in the case of Koroška and not least in the case of other regions. In short, this law is worthy of support and is worthy of adoption. If you support the marriage, the image of the province will certainly be completely different from that of the last year of this law, with better jobs, with fewer unemployed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u75	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Duša Trbec Bučan, State Secretary at the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, for an introductory explanation of the Government's opinion. Here, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! We oppose the proposed law. We have considered the initiative as part of several initiatives from various regions of Slovenia, which have gone into trouble with the economic crisis and see the way out in the adoption of specific development laws, each for its own area. This has already led to proposals for laws for White Krajina and Kočevsko, for Podravska and now for the region of Koroška, all following the last year's Law on Development Support Measures for the Pomeranian Region 2010-2015. We agree that the situation in some regions is difficult. Developmental differences in Slovenia are not shrinking, and in the areas most lagging behind in development, the financial and economic crisis has caused disproportionate deterioration of the economic situation. The situation in the Pomur region thus arose when the unemployment rate was significantly above 20% and immediate intervention in the form of law was needed. Although the adoption of the intervention law was non-systematic, the solution was correct during that period, as there was not yet an appropriate systemic solution. It cannot and must not become the adoption of intervention laws to address problems in areas in difficulty. An acceptable solution to the problem, including for the Koro region, is seen in the adoption of the system law, in the promotion of the coherent regional development already put by the Government in the National Assembly and which will be discussed in December. The proposal for a new system law allows the use of an extended set of regional policy instruments. Areas with similar development problems as the Pomur region provide approximately the same level of State aid. The proposal for a new law provides for the adoption of an agreement for the development of the Caribbean region, to be concluded by the Development Council of the Carinthian Region and the Government. Both sides will commit to implementing key projects that will have a decisive impact on the implementation of the development priorities of the region. They will also identify the sources of their funding, regional and sectoral projects under the signed agreement will be included by the competent ministries in the national budget development programme plan. Furthermore, the proposal sets out the criteria for defining border areas of concern as priority areas for all development policies. The budgetary users would take these into account in the preparation of sectoral programmes and in the tendering criteria presented. In the context of regional policy, specific measures and schemes to help companies invest would be developed for border areas. The rural development policy also envisages the preparation of measures for the area for border problems in the context of the implementation of the rural development programme. The proposal for a system law also provides an instrument for additional development support measures for the problems of the high unemployment area. It is the activation of all the mechanisms envisaged by the Pomur law, with the exception of tax reliefs, which are still being coordinated. The proposal provides for a specific programme to promote competitiveness to be financed from the specific budget line. Priority and specific treatment would be given in drawing on European cohesion policy and rural development policies. In the same way as in Pomour, employers who would employ workers for at least two years would receive paid contributions from the employer for social security. The reasons for the introduction of the draft law in development support to the Caribbean region are better understood in the warning system for the accumulated problems in the Koro region and as a requirement for effective solutions in the system law and we oppose its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Lah will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u78	Dearly greeted fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The Slovenian Democratic Party has so far supported both the Law on Pomur and the Law on the Podrav Region. In our party we believe that the development differences between the regions are not diminishing, but they are increasing, on the contrary, that similar laws such as the Law for Pomurje give their results, as the Government also claims, and that this Law on Koroška should also be supported. Koroška faces ever-increasing problems. Unemployment is growing rapidly, their transport connections are very poor, as with the third development axis there is nothing, and it will probably not be in the short term. In our view, the system law announced by the Government will not provide the right solutions, at least not in a very short time. So far, we have regional development agencies, which, in other words, are somehow in charge of regional and Mediterranean projects, but regional development agencies do not do what the province should do. We are therefore of the opinion that, until we have another level of local self-government, something needs to be done to link or manage joint projects in individual regions. The regional development agencies are mainly concerned about entrepreneurship and regional development projects, not joint cohesion projects, which we see as a problem in other regions. It is also with the Pomour Law, where the technical office was established, that connects all these projects and coordinates them and requires the minimum costs of the country to make these projects run faster and deliver better results. That is why we will support this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because until then we see the only possibility that regions where development is staggering and these development differences are increasing among the richer regions in Slovenia, that this is a form where projects can be made more quickly with the minimum input of the country and reduce this development difference. We do not expect the system law that the Government is preparing for coherent regional development to have any effects. On the contrary, I think that what we now have in the regions through regional development agencies will be done through projects that have been jointly prepared by the municipalities to make these projects difficult or slow down their implementation. That is why we believe that this law is very necessary for Koroška if it is not adopted or if this trend of development does not reverse, it will be more difficult in the future to resolve the development of both the Koro region and comparable other regions in Slovenia. We believe that similar laws should be prepared and adopted in the National Assembly for a wide range of regions in Slovenia. That is why we support this law, and it is likely that some such law should be prepared and adopted in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of the Zares Group. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! As stated by the proposer and also by the Government, the law before us follows the Law on Development Assistance to Pomur and similar initiatives were already in the National Assembly for the Law on Assistance to Podrav, White Krajina and Kočevski. As we heard from the speaker’s mouth, there is also some law before us for another area in that country. We can all probably agree that many regions need assistance. The difference between us is probably how to help these regions. It has already been made clear to Pomurje that this was the first region to warn itself and its problems in the most present way. The problems were also great, the numbers speak for themselves, the unemployment rate in Pomour was higher than 20%, and nowhere else in the country was it and it was still not so high because the country had no system solution at the time, nor did it think about it thoroughly. These problems required some kind of intervention law, which pointed to the necessity of adopting a more permanent and more systematic solution. And this is being offered to us now, as has already been said, in parliamentary treatment, is a system law, a law promoting coherent regional development. We can probably agree that it is substantively similar to what we are dealing with today and which is mainly focused on Koroška, which none of us claim to have no development problems and that the economic crisis is not even more acute there than in which other regions. However, it must be acknowledged that the situation in Pomour is worse if the numbers lie and I see no reason not to believe that only there are things worse than they now show in Koroška. The system law is supposed to address not only the problems of individual regions or sub-regions, but in short, to systematically regulate and set out the criteria for any similar region, sub-region or just an administrative unit that will go into such problems as unemployment, to draw on more resources than others that may have been avoided by the financial and economic crisis. As has already been said, the prevention of unemployment is, of course, not the only objective of the system law that we support in our parliamentary group and which makes it not seem reasonable to support this law. The other objectives and options are also to promote funds for greater development of border areas, rural development and European funding. Even now, it must be recognised that the amendment to the Regulation on the allocation of regional incentives is in order to partially allow for more resources to be drawn from it to prevent unemployment in certain areas if the level of unemployment in the administrative unit exceeds 17 % within two months. If it is to believe the statements made by the law's proponents and we have no reason in our group not to believe them, we can conclude from this that Koroška will be able to draw certain funds before this Law on coherent regional development is adopted. The question that is being asked is, of course, what could have been heard in the presentation of the previous opinion. If more laws are to be adopted for the individual provinces, how many of these laws must be adopted to be said in the end, perhaps the system law would still be better. There will always be a region or sub-region that, compared with others who have already received some legal benefits, can show up and can reasonably justify its expectations that it deserves a similar law. However, we believe the Government's argument that it will briefly regulate things in the way Korosci, Pomorci, Belokranjci, Kočevci and others want to do so in an unenviable economic situation, so we will not break this law. We agree, of course, with the reasons for his acceptance. However, we believe that the system law will solve these problems better. If you'll allow me to finish the comparison. Here was mentioned the Slovenian aid or guarantee to Greece to secure our common currency, which, of course, I think is an incorrect comparison of internal and external political or if you want financial situations. One similarity exists, of course, the Greek financial crisis has warned the EU and the euro countries that such problems must be systematically prevented. For Greece, intervention laws had to be adopted, and all the following countries that were or will be in a similar crisis would receive this solution in a different systemic way. The law, as has already been said, in the Group of the Members of the Truth – we will not support the new policy, but we will gladly support the system law that is already in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Franz Pukšič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u82	I need to lower the counter to my proper height. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, vice president, secretary of state with co-workers! Position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party on Development on support to the region of Korea for the period 2012-2016. The Slovenian People's Party will support the proposed law. Let's do it in a row. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the proposed Development Assistance Act of Koroška, as its immediate implementation would contribute to a significantly faster improvement of the current extremely poor social and economic situation in these regions. Why? Because the proposed law provides for the following implementations. It thus provides for a programme to promote competitiveness, which aims to stimulate investment in companies which would, of course, allow for such long-term development and job creation. The only jobs are the guarantee for social development. Then he suggests that the law also focuses on the development of human resources. And the proposed law promotes social entrepreneurship and invites both domestic and foreign investors. The problem of Koroška, of course, is also a major problem of brain escape, obviously because there are no jobs. Young educated people move to more promising areas or stay in those areas where they have studied and come to education because there and only there can they get suitable employment. Thus, increasing unemployment and business failure due to liquidity problems for young people is not a positive incentive. It is therefore necessary for Koroška to do three things: for the first time, the higher education centre, for the second time, to establish measures to promote the economy and for the third time, to make a basic vein through which basic blood flows, that is, transport or to arrange transport infrastructure. Let's start in a row. The higher education centre should have a wide range of educational programmes, but it must also be directly linked to the local economy, without it being a fog. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that the development-oriented study programmes can be the most helpful to the economic recovery of the region. These development-oriented study programmes related to the rest, this is with the incentives provided for in the law. These incentives are provided for both by tax incentives for investors, which is absolutely necessary. The investor must have a reason to choose to invest somewhere in a demographically threatened or underdeveloped area. Employment incentives and the establishment of an inter-enterprise education centre. No, and thirdly, transport infrastructure needs to be modernised and the resources for the wood-processing industry increased and the potential of the forests of Korošice and Korošci should be cashed out; not exported by logs, but exported by the rich, high-quality work of Korošci and Korošci. We all know what was going on in Pomura. In this room we have adopted the so-called Pomur law. The law – yes, okay, the law is good, but it is true that the law itself does not help us, dear colleagues, if we do not have the resources to ourselves. How much? The law states: €33 million in five years. That's not true! A man can't believe it. This is actually a mockery of both the Pomurs and the so-called aids, where they are supposed to create higher quality jobs and thus reduce unemployment. Unfortunately, unemployment in Pomour is still 20%. We're asking the government where your predicted results are? It will be necessary to make an inventory and give results on the table, but it is difficult if they are not. In May this year, the Slovenian People's Party Group also submitted a proposal for a law on development support to the Municipality of Maribor, together with Podravje, which, like the law of Pomurje, helped to accelerate the development of entrepreneurship in the Podravska region, resulting in a substantial reduction in unemployment. The Podrav region is also one of those with the greatest unemployment. However, in this law we have proposed real financial resources, EUR 400 million, without it there is nothing, but without money there is no way. Or as the Slovenian proverb says, "as much money as so much music." However, the then ruling coalition considered that it was better to regulate the regional development area by means of a system law. Government coalition, good afternoon! Half the term is behind you. In this area, you have done nothing, but now you will talk for two years or a year and something about the so-called Systemic Law on Harmonised Regional Development, which will have absolutely no effect, even reject what it is. Indeed, the law itself states that development programmes for the region are to be made one year before the new period, which will be the period 2013-2020. And, of course, it is necessary or possible for regions to be established, because only 40% of their municipalities will have their mayors in the worlds, which means that all municipalities will not be present at all for 40% of the economy and 20% of NGOs. Unfortunately, it will be absolutely nothing like nothing from the provinces you promised at the beginning of this mandate. So in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have been warning for two years that the new system law will not bring us anything that has already been presented. We do not understand why after two years the government has not embarked on the establishment of landscapes, which are the only guarantee of coherent regional development. And if we had the provinces, today the use of European funds would also be significantly more effective. You still remember the question you sent to the Prime Minister, and no one denied it. 2.2 billion, so far used approximately 1.2 billion. Where's the billion euro? I'm afraid she'll stay in Brussels. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are aware of the consequences caused by the so-called Taiwanese operation of companies in the form of managers' buyouts and, of course, other harmful business decisions that have led to the collapse of many companies with a long tradition, but there are no guilty workers who have already received such bad wages or who have been without profits for several months, who have landed on the road. More, more, colleagues and colleagues. Employers, so-called quasi-managers, did not even pay them pensionable disability insurance because they also had an example in employers whose employer is a state-owned company. The quasi-state managers who still have several times as much wages as ministers or Prime Minister of the Government today. But of course that's your problem. It's been worse. Not that they didn't pay, not even pensionable disability insurance. But the money that was ripped from the workers’ salaries to pay for the workers’ loans landed in the pockets of managers, their yachts, weekends, houses, parcels, and so on. TODAY, I would expect you to propose a law to freeze all this property. So, of course, such cases include unfortunately unfortunate Prevention. As a result of the decline in the work of more than 1,200 workers who have not received wages in months and already have a practical life throughout 2010, they depend mainly on intervention assistance from municipalities, charities, social assistance and modest unemployment benefits. Prevention is not the only company in Koroška that has found itself in difficulty and a proposal for a law that we are dealing with does not only save Prevent, but attempts to solve the whole problem of the ten-year economic neglect, economic transport and traffic isolation of Koroška by the Republic of Slovenia. The essence of the problem of differences between regions in the Slovenian People's Party's Group is that we still do not have a second level of local self-government, i.e. the provinces. And remember, within ten years, when we have the provinces, the difference between the development of the regions will be reduced by at least half, at least by half, I guarantee you. They would therefore allow for additional financial decentralisation of the country and would also significantly facilitate the resolution of development problems within the area of their competences and thus accelerate the absorption of European and cohesion funds. Dearly beloved, we are convinced that the introduction of the province would prevent, or that it would be quicker and more effective to solve, a number of social catastrophes. But what is the reality about the provinces? Despite the great efforts of the previous Government, the amendment of Article 143 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in 2006, the long-term coordination and preparation of provincial legislation and the consultative referendum on the establishment of the provinces are unfortunately dead. Moreover, Slovenia is becoming an even more centralised and bureaucratic country by removing some important state authorities, even in Koroška, as we are talking about Koroška today. The country has been the one that for decades has been machete - oriented toward Koroška and its people. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that it is necessary to correct at least a little, if not the other, at least the impression and the Koros people should be given the necessary optimism and help them develop their economy or the faster development of road and other infrastructure. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support all assistance to socially and existentially endangered citizens, so we will support the proposed intervention law in the Slovenian People's Party with all our votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues from the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Development Support Act 2012-2016. In the DeSUS Group, we have been observing and monitoring for a long time the development situation of the regions, including the widening of this gap between developed and less developed regions. Of course, we do not like this and we always encourage those carriers of this legislation to approach the drafting of legislation that will systematically regulate and reduce the gap between developed and underdeveloped regions. In this regard, in the DeSUS Group, we welcome the creation of a coherent regional development law, which we believe has built-in mechanisms that will allow these differences to be reduced between developed and underdeveloped regions. However, today we have a debate on the development assistance of the region of Cora, which is a slightly different matter. Of course, it also concerns the Law on coherent regional development. However, just as any legislation goes through a procedure that requires longer time, which also requires certain clarifications, certain additions to this legislation. We believe that it will probably take quite some time for us to come up with this kind of legislation that we can help Koroška through. This was probably also one of the arguments of the bill's proponents, who decided to propose the Koroška Development Support Act, because it is likely that this law, the intervention law, would have immediate consequences, immediate effects, because Koroška could be helped immediately. Koroška had been lagging behind developed regions in Slovenia for decades, but it was not her fault. Not to live in Koroška with less intelligent, less developed people, not because there would be people living in Koroška who have no inspiration, have no ideas and have no idea. Some things that are as they are have helped. Koroška is a border region and is connected to much of the region of Austria. At this moment, when Koroška is in an extremely, extremely difficult position, then the eyes of our unemployed and all those who would like to create their existence in their own way and with their work, pointed to Austria's side, to Austria's Koroška. Unfortunately, southern Austria is also an underdeveloped area. However, this underdeveloped area of Austria as a country contributes a great deal as regards subsidies for land purchases intended for the construction of factories and the development of the economy, including other social transfers. There are many Korosics and Korosci who are today searching for their existence on the other side of the border. There are also many companies buying land on the side of Austria's Koroška. There the land is cheaper, much cheaper than us, even municipal equipment, because the country helps in such a way that prices are kinder and therefore our economy forces us to the other side that our people are looking for employment and get a job in Austria. That they even drive children to Austrian kindergartens, bilingual kindergartens. These are things that we should think about, and so is the state. And bad luck is also that Koroška is an extremely unrelated and road area, which is kind of on the edge of a country, sometimes forgotten by God, not just Ljubljana. And because of the fact that Koroška is the only region that does not have a fast road that has no quality road connections, there is no interest in someone coming with capital and investing in Koroška, creating new jobs that would have some higher added value, thus ensuring the existence and normal development of a region. Unfortunately, it is also the fact that we are fighting and trying to open higher education spaces ourselves, putting in programmes that are directly linked to the economy and the profiles that are needed for the economy, but we are also not hearing from the country. These programmes were created because they wanted local communities, these programmes started in such a way that local communities bought out premises and that we hired teachers, teachers and deans at these schools to teach here and that some development in this area of higher education began. It is difficult to get a concession from the state, it is difficult to get this concession to help these higher education programmes, which, as I said, are directly linked to our economy and other work, such as the General Hospital and so on, because it is also a matter of the High School for Health Sciences, to help us here and that it would go on, but it is difficult to expect this, because we have to help ourselves. And this is also the reason that Koroška becomes a country of older people, pensioners, a country of those who are in social support, a country of those who are supported by the Employment Service, and young people go on a one-way road to Ljubljana and Maribor, one-way street because they do not return. Be it because life in Koroška is difficult, either because they have no hope and have no opportunity to work in Koroška, and so becomes the Koroška enclave, somewhere on the edge of the country, some ghetto that gets these negative trends year after year. That is probably why the initiative of today's billmakers was to help Koroška, because Koroška cannot help herself at this time. This economic and financial crisis in Koroška has yet to be cut off by the collapse we experienced with Prevent. The prevention was a giant who employed 970 Korošics and Korošci, who collapsed overnight. And I have to be honest, I have to say that in doing so, the Government has helped to the best of its ability to look for companies, companies, to provide these new jobs, and it has happened that quite a few of these people who lost their jobs in Prevention have been hired in some of the companies that have come and have been employed there as seams. But you know, this help isn't the solution to Koroška. Of course, we appreciate and respect sewing as well as every job that is labour intensive. But this is no help and this is not the perspective of Koroška. Koroška will then remain at this level for years and years, and the gap between the developed and the underdeveloped will increase. We want Koroška to have something else to have a development perspective, because we have the potential and we want this intervention law, which is proposed, to ensure that we get the support needed to develop the economy, to open up new jobs with some added value, to a higher technological quality and complexity. So that Koroška can help herself and that this gap between the developed and the underdeveloped will stop, it will decrease, and in this way we want to help the other regions that are either on the tail or more underdeveloped than Koroška to help them. Once again, we believe in the Law on Harmonised Regional Development, but on which path can Koroška be helped first - whether we are waiting for the procedure and completion of the procedure of this law or whether we are adopting an intervention law on immediate assistance, because there is a need for immediate assistance. This is the only way we can survive, and this is the only way we can stop these negative trends. Many times we compare the intervention law to help Pomurje, then Pomurje had about such, perhaps even worse parameters, on the basis of which the Government and the National Assembly decided to assist Pomurje with the intervention law. Koroška has the same negative parameters at the moment. And it would absolutely be to believe that and hope that the intervention law that is proposed will also be passed. Let this be for the end and for the sake of all this; the process of dismantling the region of Koroška is currently taking place in Koroška. Dismantling because on the agenda we hear the abolition of some of the state institutions and some of the regional institutions that have so far been. This is how the police administration, we no longer need it in Koroška, so the exhibition for defence is no longer needed in Koroška, so it is simply a unit of the New Ljubljana Bank to help the economy, we do not need it, so we imagine that Koroška will remain as an enclave of older people, pensioners, pensioners and those on social transfers. However, when the Government is speaking in explanation against this intervention law to help Koroška about the argument that the issue of public-financial content is a matter of public-financial content, then we can only say that, imagine how many today in Koroška those who receive social assistance, those who are unemployed, or those who receive assistance through local communities, because it is also money. But this money has to be given by the state. Or should he put it on indefinitely? And indefinitely, it will give if we do not immediately cut this situation in Koroška and somehow help to make Koroška develop as we wish. And I think that the arguments, of course, hold some of them, but some of them could also immediately throw them away and reinforce them with different views and different views, then let me conclude with the fact that the DeSUS Group, of course, supports the Law on Coherent and Regional Development, but also supports the Korean Development Assistance Act 2012 - 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! I will continue to do so, as my fellow Member from Koroška has done. To present the position of this bill, we decided in the Slovenian National Party that I would present it, because I have something to say in comparison to a similar pomur law. I understand my colleague from Koroška and I agree with everything he has said. In fact, Korošci and Pomurci experience a very similar fate, a tragic fate of this inconsistent development in the Republic of Slovenia, for which it is not difficult to find the culprits. I will not return immediately to the Law on the Promotion of Regional Development, which is clearly an empty word on paper, adopted in 2003, and in itself requires a thorough review and, of course, a firm implementation of what is enshrined in this law. If you refresh your colleagues' memory, you will read the law, and you will see that nothing has actually been realized since this 2003 law. In fact, the opposite has been achieved. Only if I remind you a little bit when we adopted the Development Support Act this year, if I make a little joke, the Ljubljanas, the capital of Slovenia, where we devote 16 million euros a year, all Slovenians in the name of increased income. At that time, the coalition insisted on this, with various such and different reasons, that this is the capital, that it is here, that I do not know how many embassies, colleges and universities and that it is also decent to invest money in the capital. Now this neglect of coherent regional development is returned to them as boomerang. And the proposed proposal is a perfectly reasonable consequence of the current situation. I also do not understand the representatives of the Government, as they claim that they cannot support the proposed Development Support Act 2012-2016. I don't know how we could have been united then in support of the same Law for the Pomur region. Are the Koros any less valuable than the Pomuras? Are the Ljubljanaers worth more than the Korošci? I think that this obvious distinction between certain centres or regions in Slovenia is likely not to be found in Europe. I have both marriages here. In fact, it is a purely identical text with some minor corrections and a few expressions have been changed. For it is also understandable that the purpose of the proposed law is similar to that of the proposed law with the development support of the Pomur region. But there's something else I'd like to say to you about what the Korosks are missing. That's what my colleague Pukšič said. In fact, there is a lack of road links with the region of Koroška. Here we are Pomurs somewhere in one advantage. And I have to admit that without this highway connection, even marriage wouldn't have the same benefits as it might have, because I'm going back to the law a little later. On the other hand, I read in the daily newspaper that Dars is producing professional bases for the study of variants for the Jelšane-Divača-Postojna motorway. This study was commissioned by Dars, who signed contracts totalling half a million euros in August with four companies. I do not understand why this is not a priority, of course, planned for the region of Korea. Otherwise, the Government is attaching to its opinion, the position of the annex, where I have tried to read all the projects that are supposed to serve the development of the Koro region, but essential, this is a planned project for highway connection, we cannot find. Dars argues that in order to ensure an appropriate international highway connection in the Adriatic-Ionian corridor, this is Jelshane-Divača. Yes, please, whether this highway, which will serve Italians and Croats for faster transport from home and back, will serve the development of Slovenia, we can ask. But if I go back to the law. The experience of the Pomuras in the implementation of this law, I must say quite frankly, is poor. It is not true what government representatives, the Office of the President of the Government, are deceiving that, I do not know how great the results are in the Pomurska region in this year of implementation of the law. It is not true that unemployment has been reduced as regards the measures taken to implement this law of purgatory. Employment increased by 400 people and by 400 and 350 people. But it's cheating again. These are jobs entirely from the private, private sector. This is some small factories and establishments that are built in the Mursophosian congregation, and they now own, of course, employment data from this law, which is actually a very serious misappropriation of the public. In programs, you could say a lot of things that don't count in the law of purgatory and don't work out as you should. I don't think he will be here, either. In tax reliefs, for example, if we go to this, this is Article 6.Read something that is very interesting. They state that for Koroška and for the Pomeranian region the same: "Unless the relief provided for in this Article is justified by the Commission regulation, the undertakings from sectors, coal, steel, synthetic fibres, agricultural products, fisheries, etc. " Interesting, iron, steel industry in Koroška is not entitled to these reliefs. When we talk about sustainable and competitive development of agriculture and agri-food, this is certainly the sector in the Pomur region, the economic sector, which has benefited least from the Development Support Act of Pomurje. If we just look at the failed Pomurka, where, otherwise, one privateer went to some investment for 20 people when he hired them to do Kekec pâté, but in fact the whole factory is closed and failing. Thus, if we are talking about some competitive development of agriculture and agri-food in the Pomeranian region, and the same is now the case in the Koro region, I do not know where this is going. Nobody does that in the Pomurska region. Thus, even in Koroška we can find comparable things, just as the Mura has failed, so now the Prevention has failed, so that our workers have even more tragically taken it to Mura. There are 3,000 people left on the road without a pension, with some social assistance, some supplements, which are temporarily only so many patches on the wounds of all these humiliated people who lost their job and their families, who, of course, are the most affected here. If we move on. The establishment of an inter-enterprise education centre should also be highlighted among these programmes. Again, poor experience with the law of purgatory. It's the year around. The Inter-Inventory Centre is, however, a constitutional act is regulated, but we are now going to finance. 2 million is foreseen for an inter-enterprise education centre, both in the Pomurska region and here, for the region of Koroška. In the Pomurska region of these two million came money from the Ministry of Education for this purpose. The technical and vocational school or school center received this project on the invitation to tender by again being a VAT problem, as the school principal tells me. So, $2 million in VAT, which, of course, can't get paid, is saying where will this 400 grand be taken after his assessment? Here, too, the adoption of this law on the same subject can take place. Then, for example, a programme of plumbing in the Pomurska region. It's been around for a year. There's nothing actually done. We still drive water with tankers on Gorička. People actually don't have clean drinking water. The programs are already built, I don't know how many, 10 years, a., b., c., variants or projects, of which nothing. I would like to know how much it will actually be realized here in the event of the adoption of this law in Koroška. Otherwise, I am not so aware of this problem in Koroška, but I would tell you that if we adopt this law, in the Slovenian National Party, we are of course energetic that this law is adopted, for one very ethical, moral reason, the principles of making differences between different areas, regions in Slovenia, as has been done in Slovenia lately, is unacceptable to the Slovenian National Party and cannot be honoured. In any case, we could talk about this a lot, my colleagues will also add something, but in any case, I would suggest that you take a comparative study of the Pomura Law and the future Koro Law and learn the Koros from the fact that you will be more careful in the implementation of the law, because things are not going as well in Pomura as the government representatives speak. The facts are different that I will not talk about questionable, unjustifiable calls for allocation of funds on purpose, inadvertently, of funds that will not amount to any development support for our region, and will now, when the first reporting takes place – when the law is adopted, require half a year's reporting – find certain damage caused by this money, which is not even that much. As we spent it, in January, the Secretary for the Implementation of this Law will have to justify the funds and also present the effects. But I tell you in advance, not everything is as the government representatives say in public, and the media likes to sum it up, and the whole of Slovenia thinks that everything is as government representatives say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Say good-bye to everyone again! At the LDS, we believe that the draft law on development support for the region in the period 2012-2016 submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members, with the first-signed Mr Mir Petko, cannot be supported. In the Liberal Democracy, we are aware that Slovenia is far behind in certain areas as part of coherent regional development, but we believe that the problems of regional development cannot be solved through intervention laws. To this end, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has also drawn up a proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development, which, with systemic solutions to all areas in the country that show similar development problems, will provide approximately the same level of State aid. In this regard, we also warn the LDS Club that we have already had such a system law in the past, which has been very weak in the field of realisation and, therefore, from this point of view, we are now facing the problem of intervention laws for specific areas because the implementation of these laws has not been consistent in the past. With regard to the proposal for this law, it should also be noted that the available public financial framework does not allow for the financing of all the obligations imposed by the proposal for a law. The proposal for a law is also unacceptable from the point of view of systemic tax legislation. Measures in this area cannot be implemented in a non-systemic manner. The initiative for a specific development law relating to the region of Koroška should be considered as part of a number of initiatives from different regions of Slovenia, which have become in difficulty with the economic crisis and see the outcome of the adoption of a specific law for their area. This has already been the case for Bills for White Krajina and Kočevsko, Maribor with Podravska region and now for the region of Koroška, which are all following the adopted pomurski law. We agree with the bill's proponents that the situation in the Koro region is difficult, but the situation is not only in this region. Following the bankruptcy of one carrier, Preventa, unemployment indicators are also deteriorating, but this data shows that quite a few regions are not spared by the crisis and that the adoption of intervention development laws cannot be a systemic solution for Slovenia. The solution for Pomurje was non-systemic, but during that period the only possible and possible, since there was not yet an appropriate system solution. Slovenia needs a new law on promoting coherent regional development that will respond to the needs of all areas facing development problems. With the successful implementation of the pomurski law, the Government has coordinated a systemic solution, which also focuses on lessons learned from the Pomurska region. We hope and wish that these experiences are positive. Of course, even from experiences that are less positive, something will have to be learned. The proposal for a new law on the promotion of coherent regional development makes it possible to use an extended range of regional policy instruments in areas in difficulty, similar to those used in Pomura. Other areas showing similar developmental problems will also provide approximately the same level of State aid as in the case of Pomurje. The new law will bring a territorially structured multi-military approach and flexible solutions, as we need dynamic measures that will trigger the government's rapid response in the face of the deteriorating situation and, if the situation improves, its gradual decline. The bill sets out two types of problem areas, first the border problems of the area and further the areas with high unemployment, which have also been most affected by the economic crisis. Analyses show that developmental problems are typically concentrated in the border area. Specific measures and State aid schemes are intended to strengthen regional policy in these areas by strengthening the border belt with new investments and the possibility of new employment and creating opportunities to improve demographic image in a strategically important border area. In the border problem area, municipalities are also covered that show a distance from key roads and a high proportion of Natura 2000. The latter criterion would also contribute to the achievement of environmental objectives. In border areas of concern, regional policy wants to create, in particular, new jobs, which guarantee a long-term improvement of demographic image and an important mitigation of the crisis. If, despite systemic measures, unemployment in an area exceeds a critical limit, the draft law provides for additional temporary development support measures for such an area. High unemployment areas are expected to receive a programming approach, priority treatment of development policies, employment incentives and additional budgetary resources to implement a programme to promote the competitiveness of the area, in line with the model of the post-morning law. In this way, the Government believes that the need to adopt new intervention laws will be removed. The reasons for the submission of the draft law on development support to the region of Koroška are also understood in terms of noting the differences in development in the Republic of Slovenia. The economic crisis and the successful implementation of the pomor law have prompted demands for other areas that have become in difficulty to be treated in the same way. However, the proposal for a new system law is already in the National Assembly. It will be adopted on a regular basis as it concerns the issue of regional development of a wide range of stakeholders with different interests. Therefore, it also took some time to coordinate professional positions. Our membership in the European Union and our integration into the OECD in this area further requires us to verify systemic solutions in international frameworks as well. The announced reform of cohesion policy in the EU must be taken into account. It is also important to assess the international group of OECD experts that has prepared the OECD recommendations for regional policy and decentralisation in Slovenia. Given that a new system law has been drawn up, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already issued a Regulation on amendments and additions to the Regulation on the allocation of regional incentives, which, at least in part, allows for a timely response to a possible upward increase in unemployment in problem areas. By amending that Regulation, it was possible for regional development agencies, in addition to regular funding, to obtain additional funding in the event that the registered unemployment rate in at least one administrative unit in the development region exceeds 17 % in two consecutive months. The conditions for the allocation of funds are the definition of the problem area in the development region and the submission of the additional necessary development tasks in the problem area in the time and financial evaluation programme. The costs of staff and the preparation of programmes and projects related to the resolution of identified development problems are justified. The appropriations may be allocated for a maximum period of two years. This adaptation to the Regional Incentives Regulation does not, however, solve the problem of providing funding for projects under the Development Problems Programme, but represents the first step in which we consider human resources training, programme preparation and project preparation. A comprehensive solution requires the legal basis provided by the adoption of a new law on the promotion of coherent regional development. Therefore, the proposal for a law on development support to the region of Korea for the period 2012-2016 cannot be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we in the Group of Non-Aligned Members asked ourselves in solidarity whether to support the development support of the region of Korea or not, the answer was clear – those who need development support must also receive it. There's no particular doubt about that. However, there will be doubts as soon as we ask ourselves whether the most appropriate measures which are separate, which are partial, which are in fact direct state interventionism or possibly any other measures that are more comprehensive, even compared to other similarly affected areas in the Republic of Slovenia. It is not for us to ask whether support is needed, yes or no. More important are questions and, of course, even more answers to questions that I will briefly ask. What kind of support should this be? Whether support in the form of some financial injections, which are often poured into the void, or support in something that will ensure internal development, something that will be potentials that are, some comparative advantages help to raise from the ground where they are now. The second question is, of course, how to help. Or share support with intervention measures without having completed solutions, criteria and criteria to be as objective as possible in order to compare other areas, necessary development support. The next question, today we hear that for the Koro region, perhaps even the most important, when will this support be? And this support, which would be immediate, quickly, without pre-conceived and finalized programmes, could also be seductive. The question that the government is likely to be trying to answer is who will be given all these support. Some have already received, some have already been rejected, some have even withdrawn their ambitions themselves to propose such intervention laws, because they felt that it was reasonable to regulate this thing differently, systematically, with more sophisticated, more objective criteria and with the means designed to enable the intervention of the country, when necessary, to shut down, for example, that there would be no power supply, just so that a number written in the law could be realized at the end. These problems are problems that we have experienced in Slovenia due to overheated, overheated cycle of economic growth, which was not internal, organic growth. This is also the fundamental weakness of those who are behind in development. Therefore, the fundamental weakness is that, at a time when it is still possible, it has not been done to restructure the internal economy as well as an area and when it is more fueled by external effects, from external financial instruments and measures that have been relatively accessible in the past, as we know. may not have been recalculated sufficiently when they were hired. And the problem that remains is that the internal, not the economy, not our areas have not restructured, that they have not sought new products, that they have not sought new markets and that the development forms have remained so old. Powering old development forms, whether they are economic or social or other, is probably not the right way to solve problems with us. Since there have been largely old forms with us, there has been insufficient investment in research and development in innovation, in higher productivity in work, in the search for new markets and in the search for new products that could be placed on these markets. However, it is clear that we also have a very poor picture of resources in our economic operators and that much of the funding is actually fueled by borrowing. But this debt always stops at some border, as it is in the case of Slovenia and individual regions in Slovenia, and then sometimes there is a collapse, as we have witnessed on certain occasions. Koroška’s response to these problems also has its own, justifiable demands for these revealed problems, which are typical of them, such as transport connections, logistics, which is impossible for them. All of these general and some typical for the region, typical problems have led Korosci to demand an intervention law. The government responds with an offer of an integrated solution. It responds by assessing that it is inappropriate to summarise samples applied in certain other areas. It points out that this is non-systemic support without adequate criteria and criteria on the basis of which to decide what and how and when to support us and offers us this law on more coherent regional development, which in itself does not guarantee any success. Success will be possible once the potentials and comparative advantages are supported by measures already available to many. We have seen that as many as five consortia have been reported on the invitation to tender for economic centres in Pomour. We don't know, at least I haven't read what it's like in other environments. I hope that money succeeds and knows how to draw on Koroška as well. This is one of the aids for the development of an individual region. Not everyone can be listed now, but the Government has also listed a number of measures in written material that will help Koroška to cool off from the bottom of the crisis. What is interesting about what the Law on coherent regional development tells us is that what has already been mentioned today is that these development areas are mainly seen in border areas and where unemployment rates are high, which is understandable. However, I do not understand why the Government is establishing a positive correlation of developmental threats with Natura 2000 areas and protected areas. If that's true, then this is where we run the wrong policy. If it is not, if it is as we once revealed that this is a developmental opportunity, then we need to know, of course, how to place these development opportunities on the market. The Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Solidarity Group will therefore draw on what the Government has drawn up in response to the proposal for a law, with the hope that the law it is preparing, which is to be adopted as soon as possible, will make a real contribution to the well-targeted support in order to develop endogenous potentials. For Koroška, for example, it would be very important if not for a specific local measure to be proposed, but if the general policy in Slovenia were more favourable to the forestry sector and the wood processing sector, especially since Koroška is so-called forest-covered, and from this potential, we fail to retain added value in our own environment. So, such measures, which would also be welcome in other environments, are better than those measured only for a particular area. Let me get this. We will support the Government's position on this intervention law, because we are more inclined to integrated than to intervention solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Anton Kampuš will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u92	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! A respected secretary of state with coworkers! The parliamentary group of Social Democrats of the law, which was tabled by the Group of Members, with the first signed by Mir Petko, will not support it. We have yet another partial aid law in front of us, which is almost identical to the already tabled and also to the rejected proposals. On previous proposals, we considered that the multiplication of intervention laws does not bring about a solution. We remain in this opinion. Incoherence in regional development cannot be resolved through partial solutions. Regional policy must be implemented throughout the territory. Decentralisation and activation in all areas should be ensured. The mistake so far has been mainly in the indecisive and partiality of the solution. The aim of the Social Democrats is to ensure good living and working conditions throughout the territory of Slovenia, and we are therefore convinced that the most effective way is to implement intervention measures under the system law. A systematic approach is therefore needed to address this problem. The proposal for a law on the promotion of coherent regional development, which will allow the use of an extended range of regional policy instruments in the area with development problems, is already in the parliamentary procedure. The new law, which is also based on experience from Pomurje, lays down the criteria for co-financing regional projects in accordance with regional development agreements. Slovenia needs such a law. Regional development differences do not decrease, as has been said. The economic and financial crisis has further highlighted the weaknesses of the existing model. The law on promoting coherent regional development, adopted in 1999, adopted the fundamental principles of the European Union's cohesion policy. Despite the latest 2006 revision, however, it did not ensure the effective achievement of regional policy objectives. We can even argue that the last amendments to the law by stressing the development role of municipalities, with only apparent decentralisation, have only caused an even larger number of smaller projects. All too often too small to achieve the critical mass needed for the development breakthrough. Social Democrats are convinced that Slovenian regional policy needs fundamental changes and we will only be able to achieve these through systemic solutions within the framework of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, which is already in the parliamentary procedure and has incorporated in it the good experience gained so far from the law of purgatory. The law of Pomur is the law for a short period of five years. A law on coherent regional development and a law governing the relationship in a permanent sense and for a long-term period. On the basis of this, I repeat that we will not support this proposal in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mira Friday, did you raise your hand? On behalf of the proposer? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you. On behalf of the proposer. Thank you to all those Members who have given support to this law. Indeed, we should ask ourselves first: Is this pomur law really as good as the Government, Borut Pahor and his ministers and ministers, or does it produce results or is it not good? If this law is not good, then we can end the Korean law immediately and expect the government's representatives to respond. With regard to the facilitation of steel industry. There can be no such relief because the EU does not allow it, and that is why it is also deleted from this law. With regard to the Pomurs, however, I agree with those who claim that Pomurci have many advantages compared to Korosci and that the Koros are particularly at a disadvantage today. Not only the highway that opened the world to Pomurje and Pomurec, but also tourism. In Pomour, tourism is developed, which is simply not found in Koroška. In recent years, there has been only EUR 2 million in investment in tourism in Koroška and there has been no State or European funding. Of course, wherever they spin in Prekmurje, warm water flows. Corosha doesn't have any medical facilities. However, the health authorities know that they are carriers of development in individual regions. Of course, it is interesting that the law of Pomur is kind of a system law. They're fine. They're fine. This law, which we are considering today with the assistance of the Koro region, is a non-systematic, partial law and of course it is strange. We're obviously going to Slovenia at more speeds. In Slovenia the first speed is Ljubljana with its surroundings, Slovenia the second speeds are those regions in which the Government invests or extends them. Slovenia is third-speed, and these are regions such as Koroška, which are either in reverse or in reverse and are struggling with such developmental problems as we are fighting today in Koroška. In September, unemployment data show that the registered unemployment rate in Slovenia is 10.5%. In the Radlje ob Drava Administrative Unit, where our fellow Member, Alen Bukovnik, comes from, is 16.7%. In the Administrative Unit of Ravna in Koroška 13,3 %. Data from individual municipalities in the Drava Valley show an even more terrifying picture, such as the latest data, September, the Municipality of Ribnica at Pohorje 17.2 %, 18 % registered unemployment in the Municipality of Radlje ob Drava. Exceeding 17 %, Muta 16 %, etc. We're on top of Korosci's salary, too. In September, average monthly gross wages show that the average in Slovenia was EUR 1 000 485, in Koroškem a thousand 359 euros, for example in the Central-Slovenia region a thousand 662 euros gross. The lowest gross salary is in the Notranj-Kraška region, followed by the Pomurska region, in third place is Koroška. The difference in gross salary between Ljubljana or the Central-Slovenian Region and Koroška is EUR 300. Are we that different? Maybe some more interesting information. Recently, 10 days ago, a study of indicators of four areas of welfare for the Koro region was produced. Dr. Bojan Radelj produced this study, which is quite extensive with analytical data and covers the period from 1995 to 2010. For example, the economic development indicators of Koroška, quite fresh data, the gentleman analysed the gross domestic product per capita for Slovenia in euros and concluded that in 2010 Koroška was lagging behind the average of Slovenia by 20% and that the situation in this analysed 15-year period is deteriorating. Investment per capita has also been analysed. The backlog of the region in 2010 is significantly lower on average than at the beginning of this period when it was 60 %. However, when both indicators are combined, aggregated and compared to economic development for Slovenia and for Koroška, it turns out that the development backlog of the region is in the economic field for the period 1994-2010 and that this indicator has deteriorated by one third. It is said that the regional backlog of Koroška increased by 30% compared to the Slovenian average during this period. The human development indicator of Koroška shows that human development has stagnated according to the average of the country during this study period. During the first half of the period, it slightly increased, and in the second half it decreased or over the whole period, thus showing a backlog of this analysis. The social development indicator of Koroška, a completely fresh study, consists of the unemployment rate and the net migration rate. Until 2002, unemployment in the region was lower than the national average. Later, she settled on a level of about one tenth higher unemployment than on average: we saw what unemployment is like during that time. The latest data shows a clairvoyant image. And what is the epilogue of this study on social development indicators in Koroška? By 2001, social development in the region was at a higher level than elsewhere in Slovenia, but most of the period is getting worse and thus, with a good fifth of the benefits at the end of the period, falls to about a one-petinary backlog behind the country's average. Only in the field of environmental development indicator is Koroška slightly in favour, slightly above the average of the country. There has been a need to invest more in the environment in Koroška in recent years because we live in a degraded environment. Remember the Mishnah Valley. There is also a valley of death in the valley of Mežíží, which you will not meet or see on the map, but there is — a valley for the well in Žerjav. And in the previous mandate, the government of Janez Janša, this valley has been earmarked for the rehabilitation of the degraded environment for a million euros a year. This government has already begun to act differently with these funds and has begun to squander these funds. The crisis for Korosca is not new. In the early 1990s, when Yugoslavia’s market collapsed, the Yugoslav market, we had already faced a significant crisis in Koroška. At that time, it was in great trouble for Železarna Ravne or all of Slovenia's ironworks, the whole Slovenian metallurgy, of course in addition to other economic industries. At that time we were saved by the Law on the Rehabilitation of the Slovenian Ironworks. The State of the Republic of Slovenia has earmarked about half a billion euros for the rehabilitation of the ironworks, and this rehabilitation has been paid off. As a result of State aid, Koroška has overcome this crisis due to these state resources. Indeed, the end of the 1980s alone in the Iron Ravna was the employment of some 7,000 500 workers. Today, we say, behind the factory fence is about 3,000 employees, but in 50 different companies and all these companies live well. In short, this vital part with the new owners has been retained. It was also a wide variety of tycoon stories from Viator&Vector and beyond, but this is not the subject of today's law. At the same time, the Mežíska Valley also closed the mine, the lead and zinc mine, also by law, which was adopted in the former assembly, but this closure did not produce the best results except after this salary, so that there were no major social shocks. The building of the Prevent Hall in Mežica was built from these state resources, from the help of the State in closing the Mežica Mine, including through these funds. And this Prevention, as we know, recently sent thousands of 200 people to the road a few months ago, a thousand 200 women who, in these years, made an extremely large profit for owners with modest wages, worked twelve or fourteen hours a day under a sheettop roof. Many times they were taken by ambulances unconscious to the Slovenian National Hospital. In recent decades, Koroski has been taking a lot. As it is said, the country also helped in the event of the rehabilitation of the Slovenian ironworks, but at that time it also helped the environment such as the Stores, Goreńska with the Jesenicas. In 1968, the former authorities shut down the railway from Velenje to Otiško vrh or to Slovenj Gradz, and thus further closed Koroška. The roads were not built, Koroška is one of those Slovenian regions that is separated from the highway cross. I myself have to drive up to the first highway in Austria 15 kilometers, and to Arje village I have to drive 50 miles [15 km] along desperate roads. We pay the same taxes to this country as we pay taxes to all those who live on highways or fast roads. As colleague Matjaž Zanoškar has already said, Koroški is now taking the police administration, the economic part of the New Ljubljana Bank, and of course the Korošks do not accept it with flattery, do not take it with enthusiasm. Such attempts by the LDS Government were already in the past when Minister Kozinc, who wanted to impoverish the judiciary in Koroška, was supposed to have only a district court at the time of the reorganisation of the court, not even a district court and so on. The eight police administrations now envisaged in Slovenia, of course, speak in other words about the fact that this government is thinking about eight regions or even six regions and that Koroška, as a province, as a region, would simply disappear. And that would be violence against the Korošks. This would be drawing the borders of the provinces without the consent of the Korosci and, of course, in the National Assembly, opposition Members will not be allowed to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you. Mrs. Trbec Bučan also speaks, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, with regard to the obvious that the system law will not provide a useful solution in a very short time. That's not true! It is set so that the effects will be visible in a very short time. The budget provides funds for border areas, including the region of Korea. A thousand and 500 new jobs are foreseen over the next three years. More than €11 million is foreseen for 2011 and more than €13 million in 2012. We have also begun to draw up an agreement for the development of the region of Korea, together with the regional agency. It is a pilot project, it will be signed immediately after the adoption of the system law. It will also include all the measures envisaged in the proposal for a law on development support for the region of Korea. The government has already prepared an overview of the planned public calls and programmes in preparation. An assessment was also made of how much funding is potentially available to applicants in the region. The estimate is over €150 million. As far as the question is concerned, are we sure that the law of Pomur gives good results? I can safely say we're certain. And maybe I'll ask one short question on my behalf. If you are convinced that the law of the city is not good, then what do you insist on in a similar law for the region of Korea? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr. Kampush has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Majhenič. Mr. Friday, after the messenger has spoken. Mr. Campus, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u98	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Indeed, my opinion is that Koroška and other areas should also be helped. I don't see anyone who didn't want to. It is true, however, that in this system law, which is already in the procedure that I mentioned earlier, so if everything or most of what the proposal for the Koro region wants is covered, then I see no reason why this would not work positively and have a positive impact on the region of Koro and, of course, all the others who are in some way in need of such assistance. Because there has been a lot of manure and manipulation about the pomur law today, only a few brief clarifications that we will not go in the opposite direction again. You know what the situation was when the law was passed. So, stronger than 20% of the unemployed and bankrupt Mure. This was the situation so that we would not talk about some other parameters today and so on. But it is true that each of you has the right to speak one way or another about this porous law. Some of you know him, some of you don't know him, so I'll try to summarize him for a while. I estimate that all written and envisaged results are being achieved. It is also likely a sign that there is a lot of pressure for everyone else to follow this path. There were invitations to tender, i.e. two invitations to tender. The funds were awarded through public tendering. All large companies, medium-sized enterprises, small businesses, individuals and so on, including micro-enterprises, had the opportunity to apply. The calls were aimed exclusively at modernising production, obtaining new projects and products, but all at providing new jobs. It is evident and data show that at the moment 450 new jobs have been created at the expense of this pomur law in Pomurje, in fact. However, there are no data yet on the agricultural ministry's invitation to tender, which will also bring new jobs, yet there are no data from the small economy tender. And because quite a number of companies in Pomour announced the expansion of their production facilities, such as Cartago, Wolfart and so on. What's the most important thing to me in this pomur marriage? Let us learn something for once in this Slovenia. I note that it is most important that the law of Pomurje, regardless of the jobs created, has brought motivation to Pomurje. Motivation for all those who were previously without any motivation. And now it feels like, if the country takes the initiative to help, it's going to activate everything. That means, it activates companies, it activates individuals to go to new jobs, big and small businesses. This motivation, which was brought at the expense of this in Pomurje, has already made its breakthrough because everyone sees that it is necessary at the expense of this aid, this pomurski law, to make a great deal of effort on your own to make an update of production, to get new programmes and to try to get what everyone likes to see in Europe, how novelty and encouragement are being handled. However, it is very nice that today it is also necessary to make public the fact that, despite the fact that this pomur law is valid for a very short period of time and there are no terrible experiences, but it is still necessary to incorporate these minimum experiences that are evident within this porous law and then incorporate them into this law. This means experience, different good grips, orientations, solutions and so on. So I hope to say that this pomur law has brought this second quality past these new jobs, that not everything has to be discarded, but of course it is necessary to find the power, the ability, the drive to motivate yourself. And that's the condition. This would also be recommended through the law on coherent regional development, which will also bring these solutions that we have heard about today, which are built into it, and this is also a good and positive sign for the other regions. I hope to say that this is good and that is to be stressed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr. Friday as a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I'll answer to the Secretary of State. I think that marriage is good, and also colleague Györek, who comes from that environment, said that marriage is good, but that implementation of this law is bad. And since I think the law is good, we have also faithfully followed this law on assisting Pomura, very loyally, almost to the last branch, and it will be very strange if we have on the table two almost identical laws, with the same aim, with the same aim that we have adopted one in the National Assembly and we will not accept the other. That's really gonna be weird. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr. Tiny, please. Let's get Mr. Pojbich ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u102	It is true that Koroška transport is difficult to access, poorly linked to the centre of the country, that roads are poor and also poorly maintained, which certainly has a negative impact on the development of tourism, as well as on the economic development itself. However, this region has already experienced its development and economic prosperity, which has obviously not affected the improvement of conditions over the longer term, both for the economy and tourism. Koroška was not forgotten even in the 1990s, as the country reacted when problems started in the economy, with half a billion euros and more, which was a sure aid at the right moment and time, as most jobs were maintained. This could not be said for Maribor, where the whole industry remained, some companies had to die despite good development and sales programmes, with already signed contracts and paid advances, but decisions were very harmful for 150 000 people in the region, as they turned out to be in the long run. Thank God and capable Mariborians that the calvary has evolved from the grip of irresponsible February and better times have begun, and some in the country are also disturbing today. I certainly support the proposal to support the region of Korea, because, as we can see, poverty is a constant and a force for every household. This is particularly true at the edge of the region where the lost job is a disaster for the family. As far as the link with the highway is concerned, the construction of the highway is necessary and there is no need to repeat why this is necessary. I think it has been too long, too much is just talk and promise, but it is just comfort, which does not open jobs for the Koro region and tourism is not helpful. Of course, a country with consistent control over the implementation of laws in companies would also use this to their advantage in the areas of payment non-discipline, payment of taxes and contributions. There are different interpretations when retaining jobs that dry up in front of everyone, and no one is responsible for this. As long as we behave so unjustly, no help will be given, for what is meant to be developed and supported by Koroška will be stolen. Otherwise, I support every proposal for better development in the region, including others, if exposed, it is certainly better to help our own people than to offer money across Europe [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr. Pojbich, let Mr. Chadez prepare himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u104	Mr. Vice President. First of all, I must say that I will gladly support this proposal of the law with the first-signed Peace Friday. Of course, a lot of arguments and reasons have been mentioned here today, why this law is important. At the same time, I have an important question to ask. Whenever I come to Parliament, whenever I listen to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, this coalition to solve this problem in this country with systemic solutions, the same thing always happens: until now this government and this government coalition for the poor Slovenian man have done nothing! It only freezes wages, pensions, imposes new taxes, higher penalties and so on and so on; nothing has been done to ensure that citizens and citizens who live on the brink of survival – and I will again repeat here in this House that this government will once again come into the ears of the government. I'll do it a hundred more times! People who have 200, 300, 500 euros in wages cannot survive this situation in this country. They can't survive! Let me tell you this one time! And then you write in your opinion, I will quote what you wrote in the first part of the sentence: 'The Government of the Republic of Slovenia rejects the possibility of solving the situation in the Koro region in the way it was used in the Pomeranian region, that is by special development law. In the Pomur region, the crisis also had a strong social impact. The situation arose when the registered unemployment rate exceeded 20% and immediate intervention in the form of a law was needed, otherwise there could be irreparable social consequences not only for Pomurje but also wider." So, dear government! I ask you what is the difference between the situation in Pomura and the situation in the region of Koroška, the situation in the region of Belokran, the situation in the Podravska region. And I could count it! What's the difference? Everywhere, people are faced with huge unemployment, with a huge difference to the central Slovenian region, and the unemployment we are talking about is one of the key things that the current government and this government coalition should be extremely attentive to. It is also a generator of all the problems and problems across all the regions I have mentioned and when we are talking in general about the economic, economic and financial situation in this society. That's the key problem! And what has this government done at that time to reduce unemployment, to invest in new products, in what would create conditions for new jobs of higher and additional value? What has this government done in this area? If this government and this government coalition think that they will be able to solve the economic, economic crisis across all these regions, including the Korean region, by paying social aid, then they are very wrong. I will say this a hundred times and again: the economic, economic, social crisis in this country cannot be resolved by social aid, but by creating new jobs! This is what added value is, and this only saves the pension fund, saves the health treasury, saves the budget, etc. In such a situation, we have a large number of people who, after five months or more, do not get paid for which social contributions are not paid, etc. Dearly beloved government and colleagues and colleagues of the coalition! It's clear that you're leaving your places! Look, one, two Members of Parliament are sitting or three Members of the Coalition are sitting in Parliament on such an important issue! This is a great deal of rudeness, ignorance, on such important issues, which are crucial for most of these citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! If this isn't the sad image of this coalition and this government, then I don't know what else to say. I am convinced that this government coalition and also the Government of the Republic of Slovenia live in clouds. Please, let's get down on the real ground. Release into the Republic of Slovenia. You don't live in the Maldives or anywhere. Come to this country and once feel what's going on in this country. Don't say that everything is beautiful, beautiful, and oh and ah, as our Prime Minister Borut Pahor speaks. On the other hand, every other month we have an intervention law in the National Assembly. Dear colleagues, whether it is with us, those who criticize this way of leading this country, what is wrong with or with those who run this country. Put once a mirror before and before this fundamental question! To return to the Koro region. You remember well when Prevent fell. What has happened and what has been the result of this huge economic giant for the region of Korea? How does this affect the economic, financial and social situation in it? What has happened since this happened has been done to this day, except that the Minister of Economy and the President of the Government has come to paint there. Except for that nothing specific, at least I didn't feel anything. And if you ask Koroshka and Koroshica if they felt any more than that, I'm sure they agree with me. And that's why today is the reason this marriage is on the table. People can't live there anymore. Among other things, you need to know what it means to lose a job with three family members. What does it mean if there's a thousand lost jobs? Multiple by four is 4 grand! What does this mean for an environment that is already already impoverished, after all that Mr Friday has said and some Members here in the National Assembly. However, the government thinks it will solve this problem with a system-wide law on coherent regional development, which is not even in the parliamentary procedure. Colleagues and colleagues, how long it will take for this law to survive the parliamentary procedure and then enter into force! And what you're saying there, you said earlier, "The effects will be in a very short time." How can you say something so foolish if the law is not even in the parliamentary procedure? Please think about what you're saying, or else read the tape you've been talking about. This is extremely irresponsible of those who expect help immediately, at this time! Now! And the Carinthias certainly expect it! And once again, please, the government coalition and the government, think about why every other month they're putting in parliamentary groups that don't care what happens to people living in their environment, intervention laws. Why are they doing this? Certainly not because of political demagogies, as many of you here will try to defend the view of the coalition and the government on the situation. That's not demagogy. One day, remember when you get to the real ground — this is actually a situation, this is a fact in this country. Have any of you asked people who have 300 euros in pensions? Their children, young people do not get a job, and retired people have to support them so that they can survive at all. Did any of you ask that? But you say everything in this country is great, but unemployment is growing day by day! If unemployment were to fall, I would believe that this government is thinking and working in this direction that the economic, economic and financial situation is improving. But if unemployment increases from day to day, please don't try to convince me of something that doesn't hold up any normal judgment of a normal person. Look at the polls! Please take the mirror in front of you and think about yourself! You don't have to laugh and nod. There's no need for that. Solutions, decisions are needed today and immediately so that these people can survive. None of you expect to do miracles, but we expect you in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, and I personally expect you to behave responsibly to your citizens and citizens. That's what we expect, and that's the least we can expect. And by this proposed law, we do not want to achieve anything but that all citizens and all citizens in the Republic of Slovenia are treated equally. If we had a province, these things would not have happened, at least not in that way; such intervention laws would not have been introduced. This would be a systemic solution, which is still important for the future and development of this country. If we want to develop consistently on one side of Ljubljana, on the other side of the Koro region, on the third side becomes the White Krajina and so on. But without such solutions, I simply don't see the point. That is why those Members and Members who submit these intervention laws do so, because they have to in some way protect the interests of the citizens and citizens of the environment from which they come. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have money for Greece – no problem; now we have money again – Mr. Pahor speaks, in large amounts – for Ireland. He says it won't go out of budget. Does he know what a guarantee means? Is he aware of the consequences of the guarantee? This is 250 million euros and 250 million for Greece totals 500 million. Half a billion! If this money were invested in economic operators who today cannot survive, which we have 6 to 7 000 at the border of survival who simply cannot breathe anymore. Six to seven thousand companies! Can you imagine what that means? The financial spasm in this country has not yet given way! And banks deal with crap and shit that I read about every day in the paper. Thank God, I have to say that the media have taken this seriously and are showing a picture of the rule of this government and all that I am not saying is a mess going on outside of our eyes or where we simply have no way of looking. And we have this problem with the Ljubljana Bank, which is catastrophic; we have this problem, as I have already said, that there is no problem with giving Ireland 250 million, but we do not have the euro to give to a pensioner who has 300 euros for that half-coordination. We don't have that! And if we think that we will save, once again, the economic crisis of this country only by cutting heads, reducing pensions, reducing social assistance, then this government and this government coalition in the strategy are very much mistaken! I will say it again, and we will say it a hundred times in this House until you hear it: let me start working in new jobs, let me start working to invest in the economy, let me start working on allowing the economy to be credited! Do it again! They remain for two years, but now the government has 17% or no percentage of public support, but I think after another year it will have a minus 10%, as in 2008 until 2009, GDP in Slovenia fell from plus 4 to minus 8 and 9. This is the victory of this government coalition and this government! I will be very happy to support this law, which my colleague Mira, as the first-signed, has tabled in Parliament. With great joy! At the very least, what I expect is that those Members and Members who voted in favour of the intervention law on Pomour will also vote in favour of this law. I voted in favour of that, I voted in favour of every such law because I know that it is still needed in that environment. It's absolutely necessary! And thank God that every such law has certain positive effects, at least it makes sense that it has them. A colleague from SD explained earlier that there are some positive consequences to the climate and so on. The fact is, this law is prepared for some purpose. If this law does not have any positive effects, then there would be something wrong with us here in Parliament, because if it does, like colleague Miro Petek said, that is why he also introduced a law similar to that law on Pomour. Yeah, it's almost the same, so if he's had positive effects there, he'll be here. At the same time, I warn you, start solving the problem that we are talking about today systematically. Systemic! But not with that law you were talking about. This law will not solve this problem, certainly not. I'm 100% and 100% sure of that. I am even more convinced that there is no parliamentary procedure, but you are already talking about how it will have short-term and very rapid effects. This has exceeded every good-tasting limit. I just don't understand this rhetoric! I'm done with that. I call on the Government and the government coalition to use reason and this proposed law with mutual agreement to support it, because the region of Koroška and the people who live there are still in need. This will show and prove that you have little sense of people who cannot survive from month to month. But not because of them, they did their work with dignity, but if these great giants fell, it's not a matter of those people who were employed there. The point is that it helps to solve the serious situation in a way that will improve the situation as it is now. And this law would certainly have improved the situation if this law had been adopted and the solutions proposed in this law had improved the situation in the Korean region. Koroshki and Koroshica deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The speaker has the floor, Mr Miro Petek. Mr. Milan Čadež will speak after him. Here you go, Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. What I saw at the beginning of Prime Minister Borut Pahor's mandate was good will. And now the good will is gone. There are only two of the coalition MPs in this Chamber today, and this is the relation to this law, the attitude towards Koroška, which is always on some Slovenian edge or edge. I also noticed such a slight hichot in the government's representatives when my colleague Pojbič spoke, and I will present another statistic. I hope you don't smile anymore. In the introductory explanation, I have already mentioned that Koroška comes out after suicide. The fact is that suicide is also a result of the economic situation and social pressures that have been taking place in Koroška for many years. People are desperate. Some people have been living in a hopeless state and in the last five years, from 2005 to 2010, 96 people have died in Koroška because of suicide, 84 of them men, 12 women. The suicide rate, which is the number of suicides per 100,000 population, was lower in 2007, 2008 than in previous years and was between 19 and 25 suicides per 100,000 inhabitants, while it increased again last year. Of course, there is a crisis in the country, and even more so is the crisis in Koroška, unemployment, hardship. Today, some Koreans cannot even pay their children to go to school. For someone driving to school from Black to Muta, this card costs 180, 190 euros, and despite subsidies, the price remains very high. For 2009, data for Koroška show 29 suicides per 100,000 inhabitants. 29 suicides! This places us in the Slovenian top. Not only to the Slovenian summit, to the European summit! The suicide rate in Koroška is the same as in Lithuania or Hungary, which are at the European Summit itself during the seven-year period. And data from administrative units – interestingly, in the last five years show that the most suicides in the Radje ob Drava administrative unit are 41.7%, and there is also the largest unemployment. Recent data show that 18% of unemployment in Radlje ob Drava Municipality. If you "call" where the biggest unemployment is in Slovenia, you will really get to Lendava, where it is 20% and 18%, colleagues and colleagues, in Radljah ob Drava. And in 2009, the Radlje Administrative Unit, which accounts for 57% of the suicide rate in Koroška, is the most prominent. And there is despair among the people, an unprecedented state. That is why I appeal to Members and Members of Parliament – two coalition members are here, two! - that when there is a vote, however, you will gather enough internal ethics to support this law, just as you have supported the law on development and assistance to the Pomurska region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Milan Čadež has the floor. Get Mr. Franz Jurša ready and behind him Branko Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members and Members of the Ministry! At the outset, I wonder how individual initiatives on development support are coming to individual regions. And when a person thinks about it, it really comes to the conclusion that things don't work out the way they should. I remember, two years ago, there was a lot of talk about the coming of the new provincial legislation, and that the government would also implement it. Today, we see that something has already been done in this area in different regions, perhaps today after a year we can ask ourselves whether it has been done in the right direction. What's important is that the government didn't do what she promised. Koroška as such is a very important region, as we know it also extends across the borders of Slovenia. I know that there are quite some successful, very good entrepreneurs in this area, but it is difficult to reach these entrepreneurs – I want to emphasise road links. I remember years ago when I came alone to Koroška, to Prevalje, I decided to travel from Gorenjska Paradise through the border crossing of Jezersko and then across the border crossing Holmec back to Slovenia. Then one wonders why. Like I said at the beginning, because of a really bad connection. On the other hand, the distance to the highway in Austria is significantly shorter Today there was no talk of a specific view of Koroška itself as a geographical whole and in this part I can compare it with the southern part of Gorenjska, where I come from. Agriculture and livestock are also developed in this part, and I am sure that in this part, life is significantly facilitated by proper and appropriate measures. The geographical feature itself is also encouraging that municipalities in the area have to put significantly more resources into winter work, to regulate storms, to earth’s reptiles, which those municipalities do not know or detect in the plain work. And in this particular area, congregation expenditure is very painful. It is also painful to say that the congregation, which is about 150 square kilometres in size, can have a geographical diversity, an annual expenditure on winter service, and the regulation of storms, earth reptiles for even a million euros. And these are assets we can't direct elsewhere. We can't direct them to development funds, we can't direct them to the refinement of municipal budgets. As I have already mentioned, in these hilly parts the price of the product on the farm is significantly higher than the price in the low-level parts. Finally, I would like to stress that I am very much in favour of the Koroška bill and I hope that this will be a clear signal to the Government, to start thinking more quickly and purposefully about the provincialisation of Slovenia, because it is absolutely necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor, followed by Mr Janez Ribič. Mr. Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected and respected! It is clear that we are on trial today, not just the opposition, especially the coalition. For it is not possible to ignore the fact that we must be, as we say, all alike before the law. And if we were united when we resolved and supported the government proposal, the intervention law on aid to Pomura, then today we must not keep our eyes closed before similar content when we are talking about development support for the Koro region. There's no difference. This is also part of Slovenia. If you are primarily in the coalition against this content, believe that Korošice and Korosci will remember you. They'll survive. What about the one you're up against? Will you survive too? Question. This puts us in the same position, regardless of the political options we have been selected through. All of us, in particular those who adopt the relevant legislation, must be focused in this regard on the resolution of the entire part of Slovenia, not just one part. And if the indicators showed that this was essential for Pomurje, then believe that it is even more urgent for Koroška. The current measures taken by the Government, which have been taken as a follow-up to the current lane, have recently shown that the Koroška region is part of Austria. Like Koroška is not part of Slovenia. As if Koroška is just that beautiful piece of land that belongs to Slovenia when it is necessary to perform an important pianic function. This, of course, is far short of what the Koros need today and immediately. What exactly is the transport infrastructure in Koroška? This makes it impossible for these regions, especially these regions, to develop evenly, as if they were not on the left bank of the Drava road and on the right bank of the Drava railway. But remember, respected and respected, how in another system, after the war, that part of the dismantling from the Otis Summit to Velenje fell away, because it was only the cost of repairing this railway, and today it is known. It will also be known in the future until the work of the intervention funds ensures improvement of public infrastructure, both on the left bank and on the railways running along the right bank of the Drava River. Here the state can help, even it has to help, because it is the end of the public rail infrastructure that the railway union warned the Prime Minister of September. Malone did not happen that the Slovenian government in the field of international diplomacy also fell asleep in this work. It is probably thanks to someone who was more skilled than the Government to have managed to keep part of the freight traffic that is still taking place on this rail link between Slovenia and Austria and, of course, even wider, otherwise this part of the route would have been closed due to the closure of freight traffic. There is nothing better about passenger transport, both in bus and rail transport. Yes, because they are not comparable, the same watts for subsidising rail or bus transport on the route Ljubljana–Littia, here are full trains. What about Koroška? And they're empty there. If we divide the miles by passengers now, of course, the cost of covering is significantly higher, so it is easier to stop this train or this bus because it brings loss, and so slowly, but we safely cut these capillaries from which the decent lives of people living on some edge of Slovenia are fed. Not all of us are given to be in the centres, and therefore the cost of staying, coming to the centre for us who come from remote areas of Slovenia, is significantly higher. In such a case, attempts by the opposition are due to the fact that we feel obliged to act because the Government does not act; in similar cases it is, but it is not here; there are 30 municipalities; there are probably fewer municipalities, but there are no intervention measures. Let us leave this part behind so that we do not vote on this intervention law, thus allowing this part of Koroška to die on meals. Sad, but reliable. As I said, believe me, if we do not support this intervention law, we will do great damage in terms of the development of the region of Koroška. Those who vote against such a law will do themselves moral damage, which can also cause death on meals. Therefore, I am sure that our reason here should not count our political affiliation, but that it is a real picture and help to the region of Koroška.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has applied, but he will not discuss it. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek. He should be followed by Mr. Vito Rozjej. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have before us a bill or law that is urgently needed to preserve the integrity of Slovenia from or with its historic provinces, because the law refers to Koroška, the Slovenian part of Koroška, which is a highly undernourished Slovenian province. It is sad that Koroška is listed as a non-digare in the political option that is now in power. That this political option, the current coalition, to Koroška now and in the past acted machete. Look, I want to put in this position of Koroška and the attitude towards her in symbolism today, Master's Day, a state holiday. How interesting that we are discussing this today! I don't think the President studied about this, because otherwise he'd probably have set another date. It is sad that we do not actually celebrate a state holiday here with at least a five-minute banquet so that the President of Parliament does not organise it in such a way. But I'm not surprised, because it's just the continuity of one policy that has been going on since 1918, when the so-called Ljubljana government of the Pogačnik knight stopped Rudolph Maistra when he and his soldiers went to Koroška. Had it not been for such a Ljubljana government then and today, Slovenia would have looked different. And probably, given the relationship between the coalition and the coalition MPs, some people probably pee through their teeth that if it hadn't been for the Maister, there wouldn't be any debate today, either, they wouldn't be dealing with this Koroška. And the fact is that without Maistra there would be no part of the Slovenian Koroška as well. But we are witnessing total ingratitude and total denial. Look, this is a thank you to the Koros for patriotism. This option is the successor to a political former country that evicted a 5-km border band of farmers along the Austrian border in 1949. And moved them to Kočevsko, some killed, of course. Many families have never returned, which is genocide in any case. To lose physical contact with Slovenians, Korosci on the other side and to show Austria that it can do what it wants, with Slovenians in Koroška. And Austria took advantage of it, Germanized the Slovenes, pressured them. Today, Koroška is being pressured by or neglected by the current authority. Over the years, concerning the Libelics, this village, which in such a patriotic way demonstrated its patriotism that they had to change the Saintgermain Treaty, but the former power, the old Yugoslav authority, the former authority and the present authority, was machete until Libelič. Just now, about a year ago, I think they updated the road. It was a village at the end of the world, but it should be an exhibition window for Slovenia. All the kids should go there. Austria should look like a prosperous place, and of course it should be a separate district congregation. This is not what the current option was intended for because they did not have any hotel where the then Prime Minister could spend the weekends, but that is the relationship. Road links with Koroška are delayed; of course, talking about tax reliefs is sinful for the President of the Government and the Government to anticipate incentives for investment – far from that! This is a monstrous message on Maistrov's Day for Koroška from Ljubljana, from a independent Slovenia that would not have been without Maistre. In fact, the abuse of the Master's Day will happen again today because there will be an award-winning or attempt to reward the opposition to Slovenia's independence, at a symbolic level and I am against such messages. I am in favour of allowing those who have historical merits at least equivalent development and for the Government, the current Government, not acting as a Ljubljana government. Because the consequences of the then Ljubljana government are monstrous to the Slovenians and it seems to be heading in the same direction as the current government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Guido Kres. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Marian Bezjak. Get Mr. Matjaž Zanoškar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you for the words of the President, the well-welcome Secretary of State, the fellow Member and Members! It is indeed interesting that today, on Rudolf Maister's day, we are discussing the region of Koroška, which has actually fallen apart again. Even in 1918, it was thrown into ruin or collapse by the then February, so it seems today. Today, from Members, I must say that we are only here from the Slovenian Democratic Party, a few individuals who actually want to help the region of Korea. It's really embarrassing when we passed the law on the Pomur region, it's the President of the Government, the ministers -- they were all sitting here. Today, unfortunately, there is none. Whether Koroška is a forgotten land, we wonder. Look, at the time of the adoption of the Pomur Act, I proposed to the President that we should save the integrity of Slovenia, not individual parts. But all right, if we're going to rescue the pomurski, the premurski part, then let's help solve the Koroška part. In the debate, someone said that in Prekmurje Mura had 3,000 employees, that he had 1,000 employees in Koroška. Yes, but don't forget that there are so many connected companies in Prevent, which certainly exceeds 3,000 employees, such as in Pomour, who actually went bankrupt and suffered damage. Unfortunately, you have nowhere else to look in the sky in Koroška, but looking into the sky doesn't help them. They got the Minister of Transport, which somehow comes from Koroška, and unfortunately they're looking at the sky for nothing: roads, no highways. I would like, at least from this point of view, to be more of a listener at least for those people who are bound to this area. Believe me, the economic sector in Koroška is barefoot if I can express myself in jargon. There are some individual smaller entrepreneurs who are successful, but they are not competitive, because they are disabled because of their traffic connections with the center of Slovenia or the world. It is true that 2,3 larger companies remained in Koroška, but there are very few employed people in this region. How should these people who fought for Slovenia during the wars survive, in which we enjoy and live today? Can we forget about these people? In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we don't care about any person in Slovenia who has a soul and a heart in Slovenia. Whether it is on the side of Kočev, whether it is on the side of Koroška, or Primorske, or Prekmurje. Why am I saying this? Because people are about to, in one year and forget something – thank God we got the Pomura marriage, and we don't care about Koroshka. No! No! Such thinking can soon come back to you, for we are all men; all should be equal in the same country. Unfortunately, the people of Slovenia note that there are no such things. I have already said several times that we are thinking about the autonomous province of Styria, because you are also not going to make the landscape, an even development that has been somehow oriented lately is becoming very uneven. It is true that people here in Ljubljana are rich, probably with this kind of money, with 20,000 euros. In Koroška or in Styria with money that doesn't say anything. Only light and what we come from the earth helps us. That's sad. I believe that there is no duality at least with Ambassador Zanoskar, who has been vehemently saying that the party DeSUS will support this law, because it also comes from Koroška. I cannot understand that other fellow Members are not here, who also come from Koroška, from Radelj, where the most unemployed population is 18%. Unfortunately, the Member is not here. Are these people in their pockets, or what are these people thinking? Perhaps we will vote for this law today, but today the State holiday of Rudolph Maistra will be the real holiday for Koroška, which was not years ago that citizens and citizens were ashamed of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Milenko Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Let me continue as my colleague did. Today is Rudolph Maister's holiday. In fact, Koroška was very much involved in every war and lost young lives in every war; both in efforts to preserve the northern border, both between the NOB and 1991, when it came to the war of independence and the independence of our country. Koroshka has given three young lives for this. I am not speaking because it has nothing to do with this intervention bill. I am saying that all those colleagues and colleagues who have recognized Koroška for the region to be assisted will see that Koroška is taken into account when the country needs it, but when the country does not need it, there is no need to take care of it. Of course, it is sad to discuss the intervention law. It would be easier for all our people, as well as Members from Koroška, to talk today about sharing, I don't know, some profits and the super standard we have in Koroška. But the situation is what it is, and it has led us to this point when we say once again that we cannot help ourselves. See, there are resources in Koroška, they are natural and they are also technical resources that can be developed and can be used to create new jobs with added value. Companies or economic organisations have development programmes. Even now that calls are being made for the creation of the promotion of new economic development centres, it has been shown that there are companies in Koroška who have an idea of how to move forward, how to create new jobs and how to ensure their existence. However, as we are talking about the possibilities of the timber processing industry, because we live in the middle of forests – and so far, it is a sad view that these trucks drive unprocessed logs to Austria – we have great opportunities. This is how we have them in the field of the metal industry, the processing industry, the steel industry, so we also have them in the field of the automotive industry and, last but not least, in the field of tourism. However, how to imagine the development of tourism in Koroška, but, if you look at it, we have seen earlier that road links are under criticism. I'm not just talking about a fast road that would be an imperative for the development of Koroška, there's a lot of other local roads. And one connecting road from Slovenj Gradc to Koper is actually in a total mess. How can we then help ourselves with the development of tourism, even though we know that these options are very good if the basic conditions are not met? Economic centres are a good point at which we can build the development of Koroška, as well as the higher education centre we create, is a good starting point, as well as the development of tourism. But we must not forget that, with all these things, poor Koroška is also putting pressure on the local community, which always comes from appropriate spending, which should be spent on something else, we are giving money to create a higher education centre, the development of tourism and the development of other things. Of course it's the right thing to do. And this appropriate consumption also largely seizes social assistance funds. Look, at the time of the Prevention, it was the local communities that somehow bridged this unemployment gap. When they go to the employment office and have no income in a month, they had no income for three months before this agony, so the local communities provided these social assistance to somehow survive. Back then, the tragedy was that the school year had begun. I would suggest that you, colleagues and colleagues, who do not understand the situation in which Koroška is now in, come and see what the situation is when the school year begins. When people do not have money for school supplies, when they stand in line in front of local communities and wait for help to equip their children to go to school. From this point of view, I would say that some internal reserves are completely exhausted. The local communities are already on the red light when we can't give any more. On the other hand, this unemployment also affected the area — for example, quite simply: renting. How many cases people can no longer pay their rent! How many examples there are that they cannot pay for utility services! And these things remain a gap, they remain for local communities. What now in this case? Should we initiate recovery proceedings? From who? Of those who are unemployed for social assistance? We can't do any of these! And for months and months, they are no longer able to pay rent. Should we initiate the operations? Where with these poor people? On the road? But we're not that kind of country, and we can't afford it. So somehow these internal reserves and possibilities are used up to the maximum, and here goes no further. As well as the local communities, however they wanted to help, we can no longer help in this situation. In the light of all this, I would say that the intervention law proposed is an absolute light at the end of the tunnel; a light on which this poor Koroška can also rely and see the possibility of a solution in the future. Of course, there are many concerns about this, and there are many answers from the government, by the Ministry, which I fully understand. And because of today's support for this intervention law for development assistance in Koroška, there is no door closed for the adoption of another law, a law on coherent regional development, which we believe is strongly needed not only for Koroška, but also for other regions that are somehow catching tails on this development scale in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to all present! I myself am aware of the importance of the bill's proposal and I intend to support it for several reasons. First of all, it must be borne in mind that the border region of Korea and that the economic and general lifeflows of the past few years have shown that, in the immediate vicinity of this border region, there are better economic conditions on the Austrian side and that what was a healthy economy is in great danger of moving across the border. The condition is similar to a new small plebiscite. If we don't do something in this area, it's going to be a decade from now that we've missed out on historical time, just like we did more important plebiscite him nearly a hundred years ago when we didn't do enough and we lost him. So, this is the first danger that can happen to Koroška to begin gravity on Austria, on Gradec and Celovac, instead of Ljubljana. Of course, Ljubljana needs to be reached, so it is certainly necessary to invest in improving the transport link. The third development axis is in no way alive, perhaps even artificially stimulated by various dilemmas, that individual stages fall, once here, once in these decisions, on another occasion in other decisions. We can't even see it on paper, let alone begin to build at least individual stages of the third development axis. We all know that good transport connections are almost a basic condition for a healthy economy. The Law itself is almost a mirror image of the Law of Pomure, which was enthusiastically adopted in the National Assembly. Some say that it brings positive effects, yet we hear that there are also some strangeities, that some of these funds for Pomura end up on strange addresses that smell like tycoons or something like that. Certainly something has moved in Prekmurje. Only Pomurje is not so critical, has a better geological composition of the soil, better conditions for farming, almost anywhere you bury it, comes to the surface of mineral water; therefore, great opportunities in tourism, along with agriculture. And the Pomurians took advantage of some of these gifts because they were available, and the Koros do not have it at their disposal. Perhaps it would also point to the great ecological disaster that has accumulated for decades by exploiting lead and zinc ore in the most outdated ways, and so we have in Slovenia in the middle of beautiful greenery, in the midst of almost the outskirts of natural parks and reserves, that is, the Alpine world, the valley of death. And the rehabilitations there are extremely difficult and expensive. Only a great deal of patriotism and commitment to these places will keep people in this area – but for how long? If we do not intervene with the law until time, we may witness the outflow of the population in a very sensitive border region. The next matter to be mentioned is the promise of certain system laws. The system law is a convenient excuse, for the system law is supposed to be something big, and so let's buy time to pull something big together. Has anyone seen the system shut down yet? No! No! When the firemen arrive, the one in position begins to put out, and then the others join him. It is also necessary here, at least by some measures, and when these urgent measures are taken, then we can go with systemic measures. Are the systemic measures such as to wait for the miraculous healing of the German, French and any other economy? And after the flow of honey and milk in Germany and our main Western partners again, will our economy be miraculously awakened? In some cases, yes, but in Koroška we have a case: the German automotive industry has revived, but prevention is, I will use the ugly term "finally dead". Instead of dealing with technological upgrades, with optimisation of production, he was engaged in ownership, i.e. by bickering around the trough and the German partners noticed this. In addition to technical and technological competence, the stability of the company is also very important for a foreign partner. And if this company is only dealing with itself and not the market, then they see that something might be wrong there. This large buyer sees this and may be threatened by the supply and its production. We can't get past these alarming things that we hear from Koroška every day to move institutions. Even if it is a new regionalisation of Slovenia, we are concerned about what this means. Is it that institutions from a more difficult region to reach are moving towards the centre? Will then be health care, financial services, police, etc. It took two hours for something to happen to come to "the faces of the cities" and to intervene in the way the law imposes on them and in the best knowledge. So all these facts, which I have listed, certainly require us to adopt this law in accordance with the analogy of the law for Pomurje and to begin to help the very threatened, in all respects, the endangered border region.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor to prepare Mr Jakob President, followed by Rudolf Petan. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. At the time of the consideration of the Development Support Act of the Koro Region, however, it must be said that the problems of areas with development problems tend to be at the border of the Republic of Slovenia, that is to say at the national border, from the direction of Stajerska and Koroška further towards Primorska and, of course, towards Kočevski, White Krajina. And these data are extremely important for us to be properly organised in the country and to try to solve these problems as well. I agree with all those who have pointed out that the Pomura Act has been adopted and that it also has effects and that other areas, especially at the border, expect the same measures. I think it is a very brave decision by the Government to welcome the fact that it has reacted and, in fact, enabled Pomura to cope with the exceptional economic and financial crisis that has arisen especially because the textile industry has come into insurmountable difficulties, if we can say so. Even though we have very serious problems worldwide and in Slovenia as a result of the economic and financial crisis, one of the good aspects of this economic and financial crisis is that we have also started to talk very specifically about those areas in Slovenia that have actually been more affected by this crisis than other areas in Slovenia. If there is a river that can be used, then we can certainly say that it is fortunate in an accident that this government truly has a hearing for such areas, and the law on the Pomur region is certainly one of the concrete cases that solves this in very concrete terms. The next measure taken by this government was the establishment of a development council for Poklopje, where Kočevska and Bela Krajina belong. This development council was set up by the President of the Government in order not to accept as individual areas, such as, say, Pokoplje or Koroška, new laws, but to adopt one law in Slovenia, which will actually solve problems in all these troubled areas. And for this transitional period, since Kočevska has had similar consequences of the economic crisis like Pomurje, it has already begun in spring to prepare a programme in this development world, which has ended or is being concluded somewhere this month, and will also be the basis for drawing on the resources from the 2011 budget, 2012, 2013. If we are talking today about the need to help Koroška immediately, then we can say that we have already done part of this task in this House at the moment we adopted the 2011 and 2012 budgets. Indeed, the means of action, including in Koroška, are already in budget 2011, 2012. This is a very important message from both Koroška and all other border areas expecting similar measures to Pomurje. However, for individual sectoral policies, we need the right basis for them to simply find that, in the calls they are preparing, they set additional criteria giving priority to these border areas, but that is what the Government has finally decided to write into the coherent regional development law. The biggest change in this law is that very with concrete solutions it is trying to bring measures to those areas that need help. At the moment these are marginal, it may happen that some area in the central part of Slovenia or within Slovenia itself will need such assistance, and the law on coherent regional development will allow this. There will be no need to adopt a special law and wait for the procedure in Parliament. Thus today's debate on this can only be another one of those additional debates to draw attention to the fact that in Slovenia we are aware that border areas need additional development measures. In view of the fact that the law on coherent regional development is already in the procedure in the National Assembly, we can, in fact, talk about simultaneous, almost simultaneous treatment, both in support of Koriška and in the law on coherent regional development, which would also be operational in 2011. Any law we adopt today, this year, we also need money to implement it, and in the budget, as I said before, money is provided for this to be implemented through coherent regional development and by means of a legal basis. The cost estimates prepared by the proponents for Koroška alone are probably some of the estimates that are either partly summarised in the Pomurje Act or on the basis of some feeling written in these requirements, because if we look at the amount of EUR 222.2 million, this is a very high amount, and this is expected to fall back to 28.2 million on the implementation of the Korean competitiveness promotion programme, then to employ 58 million, to establish an inter-enterprise education centre of EUR 2 million, and to the regional economic centre of EUR 25 million, to restructure the competitiveness of agriculture 34 million, and to infrastructure, to provide drinking water to 75 million euros. In my view, it is somehow a summary of what has been written for Pomurje, but the fact is that before any drawdown of funds from the State budget or from the European budget, because part of the programme is, of course, financed from the development funds of the regions as well as cohesion policy, appropriate projects, programmes and, in fact, those should then be encouraged to solve the individual problem. So this is not overnight either, but it is absolutely necessary – I return to this – that we have this planned in the budget. So I think that today I really can, I won't say about such a difficult situation, but maybe I can say we're happy to talk about how the government has listened to these areas. And what I might be missing right now in the law on coherent regional development, which was given into procedure, is that part that is legalized in the law on Pomure, and also that part that is supposed to be – let's say, if the law on Koroška was passed – also proposed in this law. These are so-called financial incentives for investing in these areas. But the law on Pomour has this, the law on coherent regional development does not have this, and this is one of the open issues that we will have to clear up during this period. Indeed, there is actually an inequality here that an area will be able to have and have a legal basis for taking these benefits into account, while not yet foreseen by the law on coherent regional development. Thus, through the parliamentary procedure, we will have to clear this issue and get closer to solutions that are already legal for Pomurje. This is the specific issue that I think we need to discuss very specifically with both the Government and within Parliament today, in order to equalise opportunities for development incentives for all areas, because such incentives are necessary. What has also happened to Pomour and also to the law on coherent regional development is also a question of how to maintain staff in these border areas. In fact, one of the proposals that we have also formulated within the Crops Council is to exempt the payment of human resources contributions from a truly high and possibly even the highest doctoral education in order for companies to decide on the employment of highly educated people in their programmes. Indeed, only through knowledge and only through the way to keep young, highly educated personnel in these areas can we talk about how tomorrow we will be able to prepare programmes that will have greater added value and which will, of course, also bring significantly better quality development of these areas than is possible today, when in fact the people are fleeing to larger centres and are poor especially in border areas. This is one of those issues that I do not think would have had any major financial implications in the budget, and the impact on the development of a particular economic programme and a particular environment would be exceptional in my opinion; and also in the opinion of many presidents of companies' administrations or directors of companies involved in investing in the workforce. What we also want to point out is that it is not right to create a feeling, as if the Slovenian state itself created a problem in these border areas. Many times we face this problem that it has been in these last 16 years that many have preferred to invest in becoming owners of these companies and thinking more about ownership and less about management. This was also some process of poverty of these companies, which has already proved to be in the financial and economic crisis as a mismanagement and operation. I think that we must all pour ourselves some pure wine in the sense that even those companies that simply did not invest in the workforce must be put in front of the fact that they can, and must, come to some additional development incentives, but on condition that they also start investing in the workforce. If you do not grant scholarships to those who decide or for schooling, if you want, even in vocational school or secondary school or then at university level, it is not expected that this person will come to this company, and it is not expected that we will be able to provide enough labour from the home environment, enough personnel for programmes that already exist in some environment. The simple logic used in Slovenia right now is that they prefer to bring workers from abroad, hire them and carry out that order, for, I don't know, a year, two, three, maybe five years, and then this company has no obligation to these people anymore. That's what we need to worry about. Because even today if we give 200 million euros to Koroška and 200 million euros to Kočevsko and to the White Krajina, we will face the fact that we will not actually be able to draw on these funds because there are simply no programmes, because there is simply not enough knowledge to turn these funds into a new programme in a very short time, some added value. So this is some reality that I hope has sobered us through this economic and financial crisis. Another reality is that ministries that are primarily responsible for development – and this is the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology and the Ministry of the Economy as the most important source of economic and human development – are now publishing calls that do not take account of these development differences between those areas and those areas that are situated along the highways. It is therefore imperative to adopt a law on coherent regional development, which will also impose on the Ministry of the Economy, in order to put in place a mechanism for the economic centres for which it currently has a call for €185 million, but in the future, if all of these €185 million does not take place, which will enable companies with a lower value added coming from these border areas to reach these resources and to also establish economic centres in the White Region in Koroška, Kočevska. And this is the mechanism that then allows you to prepare some quality program and then attract young people to participate in these companies. The same applies to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. They already have a call for so-called centres of excellence, but there was no criterion here for centres of excellence to be created in border areas. And the same is true of the call for so-called technology centres. Nor was there any criteria for technology centres allowing these funds to remain in these border areas. I therefore stress once again that it is really necessary to adopt a law on coherent regional development as soon as possible, which also requires these departments to take such problems into account in their calls. We have some solutions, so I think well-examined, cleaned up, that we will actually need to upgrade them with some additional measures, perhaps also by sub-legislative acts, so that all of this becomes even more operational. And there is really no other solution than to give priority to all sectoral policies to such problem areas or, above all, to the problems of areas in these border regions. What I think we are all aware of is that when we built a highway cross in Slovenia, we expect to start building development axes as soon as possible. Again, I would like to point out that it was a poorly thought-out decision when the highway cross began to be built solely and solely with the means of indebtedness. We have thus reached into the financial structure envisaged for the development axes. They have also made their own wines and have been very friendly and are still very friendly to all users today, but yet the income they create is lower than was planned in the resolution on the national programme for the construction of motorways, which also envisaged the implementation of an additional programme relating to the development of axes. I think we are all aware that without the third development axis, which runs from Koroška to the White landscape, it will be difficult to make some quality developmental shift until this road is built. The same applies to Kočevsko and something similar applies to the Idrian-Churque region, where they also expect this infrastructure to happen as soon as possible. In addition to the fact that the dedicated resources begin to be channelled to a large part of this space, it is also necessary to place them in the area of this development axis as soon as possible. We have also adopted several laws in Parliament to accelerate the placement of public infrastructure into space, with a view to really getting the documentation as soon as possible, which is then the basis for talking in particular with external investors about how this investment can happen in Slovenia as soon as possible. I do not think there is any secret that it will not be possible to build development axes from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The additional money that we have at our disposal in these operational development programmes, and for which the European Union is actually offering funds, is similar: if you have a project prepared, then it is reasonable to include this project in this operational programme and that these European funds, which are also foreseen in the European budget, will be absorbed as soon as possible. If this paperwork isn't that prepared, then it's a big problem. Either we wait for this documentation to be prepared, or we miss the deadline for drawing up these European funds, or we redistribute some of these funds where they can be immediately classified into the development needs of Slovenia. In fact, it is a key task for the development of border areas to join the Slovenian Highway Cross with appropriate road infrastructure as soon as possible. The next measure, which I think is extremely important to me, will be that we really start to have a very frank discussion in Parliament and in the Government about whether we are able to adopt some operational legislation in a very short time, which will also allow investors outside the Republic of Slovenia to invest in our infrastructure, so that we can really speed things up and equalise development in Slovenia as much as possible. These are the solutions, which the Government is very frank about not only at this moment but also because a decision has been taken at one of the recent meetings of the Government on the basis of which an interdepartmental group consisting of representatives of the Ministry of the Environment is established for transport, the Government services for local self-government and the Ministry of Finance to set up resources for financing development axes. Here, of course, I think that there can also be expectations from Parliament that this group will come as soon as possible with a solution to how these development axes can be financed. The responsibility for the leadership of this group has been assumed by the Minister of Finance, Dr. France Križanič, and I think that I can say that this is one of those ministers who is certainly aware that Slovenia needs these development axes and that it also needs additional capital from external sources, so that this can actually begin to develop and unfold in Slovenia. However, this law on development support for Koroška in this content, as it is written, as well as the law on coherent regional development itself, as tabled by the Government, is an important step towards reducing these development differences, but the next step is certainly linked to infrastructure. Well, this is a fact: if you have adequate access, then this competitiveness of this area is also significantly greater and many then decide to invest in this environment, and, last but not least, I hope to say that young people prefer to stay in this environment. Thus, this issue of equal regional development is indeed one of the most important issues both in Slovenia and I think we can also say, given the policy of the European Union and the resources that are being invested in the European Union to this end, that these are some of the priorities that we must always have before our eyes. And I hope that today's debate will really help us all to be even more aware together that we need these measures, but not just one area that needs such a measure, but that there are more in Slovenia. In fact, even in Kočevska or Pocolpje, we could write the same, identical law as that of Koroška, and the debate in Parliament would be initiated, but I would like to stress that I really expect the law on coherent regional development to take effect as soon as possible or in 2011 and that we should clear up the issue that I have raised, which concerns the law on the income of legal persons, which actually also allows investment relief. This is a measure that we need to clean up right now and we will become, I hope, somehow at least comparable to those measures already in force in Pomura, even in other areas where we need such assistance. In any case, I propose that we, however, stop all forces here in Parliament in the adoption of the law on coherent regional development, which will bring indeed those desired effects also to Koroška, which are enshrined in this law that we are considering today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u121	The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr Rudolf Petan has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Your Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I think it is right to say at the outset that it is not irrelevant that today is Maistrov's day, it is said, a state holiday, a memory of Rudolph Maister, which has allowed Koroska, which we are discussing today, to be a constitutional part of Slovenia. However, we do not celebrate this day because this government coalition has accepted that we will not celebrate it every year, this year we do not celebrate that it is probably not important to it, or we are celebrating it. Or perhaps it is a gift from this government to the Korosci to celebrate today’s holiday that the government does not support this act of assistance to Koroska. If this were a unique law, then you might say it's something unique and the government doesn't support it. But we have such a law for each other, which I also supported, because I think it was right. That is why I am convinced that it is also right to support this law for Koroška. The treatment or event at the time of consideration of this law is some form of Slovenia in a mirror. Koroška has recently been under severe shock, under severe pressure, bankruptcy and Slovenia is under severe pressure. One of the Slovenian journals was written a lot days ago to generate 5.7m euros in deficit per day. Every day it's a state! But who is the country that runs the country? Under this ruling coalition this is happening, and this ruling coalition is giving up aid to one of the provinces and the other is giving. The other one does. To give it to someone, it's okay, but to give up Koroski, which I don't think is right. Under the pretext that intervention measures should not be a rule. Okay, it's not supposed to be a rule, but if it's one, then it could be the other. Why is it only valid for one? It is said that Slovenia is not an equal country, but a different country; some are more equal than others, some have such a law and others do not. It's obvious the crusts can't get it. Moreover, it is probably not a case that Koroška has no road connections and it seems that it will not get them under this government for a long time, because it is constantly delayed when the highway, fast road connection towards Koroška will begin to build. And I would say that, given that the Korošks were one of those who wanted to be part of Slovenia 90 years ago when they made decisions, I would say that the same ruling coalition wanted to put Koros on their own in 1991, when they unlocked border crossings and slightly allowed Slovenia to breathe more easily, to commit double crimes. Thank God the Koros resisted, thank God! And today they have this to thank! It's sad! On the other hand, the Government today denies aid to Koroška, denies support for this law, and today we have just adopted, discussed the law on international protection, the Government has prepared it. Help, international protection – but not for the Slovenes, for someone else! This - yes; when it comes to helping Slovenia, to the Slovenians - this is not possible, but this is something else! And if this present is a gift to Korosci for a state holiday, then it is very sad and this is really the image of Slovenia in the mirror at this time. I'm sure we need such a law to make Koroška need such a marriage, so I'll be happy to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mag. Your Clavor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Dr. Vinko Gorenak. [[No, no, ……]] Willie Trophynic. [[He will not debate – there is no time.]] Darja Lavtijar Bebler. [[She won't discuss it.]] Mr. Tink Lah. [[He can't discuss it. There's no time.]] Mr. Franz Puksich. Is there any more time? More. Here's your word, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u124	Yes, Mr. Vice President, that's enough time. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, I have already said that we will support the law. I've put down a number of basic reasons. One is definitely the establishment of a regional higher education centre, the other is certainly the creation of conditions for the management of both tax incentives and incentives for employment and the third is definitely the reason for the creation of an up-to-date transport infrastructure or without a transport infrastructure of a variety of other types. Among the reasons I spoke about supporting this law, I also mentioned that there is simply a need to take advantage of all the opportunities that this province gives us, including in the field of wood use. During this time, I read a publication from the State Council of Forests and Wood – the development opportunity of Slovenia, which is very interesting. The State Council has organised a round table and, among other things, Dr. Marko Petrič is talking about modern methods of processing, processing and use of wood, sustainable natural material from the 21st century, and he is also talking about Slovenia having a lot of potential and knowledge in this area, along with processing and with other modern materials, could export high-products, which means that it would become some production that would have a significant added value in the future, rather than what is happening today: cutting colds, exports and the end – and we will consider the final products back. Not all of this will happen, all of this is not going to happen if Koroška is in some way, so in the economic field, we will not help or help with the measures envisaged. What some colleagues have said about the fact that after two years of rule they now come with a rescue plant, this is the law on promoting coherent regional development, is for the next year throwing sand into the eyes with a large shovel. This law on coherent regional development alone will not bring, at least in this mandate, absolutely nothing. Because, first of all: in accordance with this law, when adopted sometime in the spring, February will be a public debate in the National Assembly, i.e. the first reading. And then it's a year's time for the saints to be established. A year, that means spring 2012. It is also necessary to prepare a regional development programme, following Article 15, signed by the State, together for a period of four years. This law definitely foresees the next new development perspective, which means that the law also states that this regional development programme must be signed one year before the new development perspective, that is, in the period 2013-2020. Koroška has nothing to look forward to, or to expect, a new marriage, as well as other regions. The alarming situation in the use of European funds is already so severe that Members and Members of the government coalition, as well as some ministers, can honestly say that they are aware that there will be no drawing on operational programmes. But look how that's actually possible. This bill foresees €220 million, and on the other hand we have €1 billion that we will not, we do not know, we cannot draw. By adopting this law – and even if we passed the law on the development of the Municipality of Maribor and the whole Podravje – we could also draw 400 million euros there. We wouldn't be doing what we're about to do to keep the funds in the Brussels cash register. That this is unacceptable, we all know. That they're not just stopping, they're shutting down some jobs, we all know. What are the consequences, we also know: the number of unemployed increases, businesses fail, stop and so on. On the other hand, what will be the responsibility of those who have received the country in management? What's that? Nothing! So, no personal, no material responsibility. As of course, unfortunately, there is no responsibility nor for the supervisory councils nor for the directors of the offices where they were operating, acting in such a way as to harm the same products, the production itself, the companies themselves, they put them in a ditch. Instead of investing in the inflows, in the development of enterprises, they invested in the repayment of credits they leased for the ownership or for their purchases of yachts and so on. It is clear from all this that we have nothing on the table at this point, except by the government coalition a lot of bluffs, a lot of talking, nothing concrete. Despite all the warnings given by the opposition, despite all the proposals of the laws that we are drafting in the opposition, nothing happens – on the one hand, and on the other hand, the government coalition of the peaceful soul accepts budgets, owes this country and talks about economic growth. I don't know where and how if the number of unemployed people in the state is still increasing and if the rate of poverty has already become so high that in some environments they just don't know how to get out of it anymore. We don't have anything else left than what we have right now. It's a life-saving plant. This is not a systemic solution, we are still aware of this in the Slovenian People's Party. We know there are no other life-saving plants like the provinces. See, only in this law on coherent regional development can I tell you that even the Government, which I was surprised to see, has written that there are no differences between basic municipal infrastructure and some other matters in individual regions. Why aren't they here? Yes, because in 1994 we established local communities, congregations. And the congregations have done their job — not well — at the level at which they can, at which they have authority! And I am sure that today we would have landscapes to reduce the differences between regions in development, the differences in unemployment and so on significantly in ten years. Of course, it takes some time, some time, after all, for a young potentially educated man who studies in urban settlements to come to his homes from where he went, and to create, to invest his knowledge. He can't do that today because he doesn't have the basic conditions. What has been done at local level is not enough, but it is no longer possible to do at local level and regionalisation is therefore necessary. You know that we have prepared to transfer a billion 200 million euros to a regional level, to transfer about 400 state staff to a regional level. This would not be a fluctuation from Ljubljana to Prekmurje or Koroška, but those who are there and from there today come to the center would stay there and perform their tasks. We'd be there. We'd be close to the ones we'd live and work with. The effects and results of this would be significantly better without these regional differences. And one thing is, today we would definitely have a significantly better use of European resources, which, unfortunately, we do not have. As such, the country would deal with systemic matters; it would not deal with matters such as Satex, for example, so that they would not become obsolete. Then the minister has no time to deal with it, either with Orion or, for example, with the Clean shovel, Hit. The State authorities are expected to address, including through the functioning of the Commissions of Inquiry, when they receive public information on certain irregularities that are taking place, by pursuing these irregularities and entering the place where it is necessary. Not to overstate some of the hundreds of millions of euros. Now there are 200 million for Koroška. I'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you very much. He wants the word "Cvetka Zalokar Orazem"? [[She won't discuss it.]] The government? [[Yeah.]] Ms Duša Trbec Bučan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Local Self-Government and Regional Development, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. As has already been said, the Government has already introduced a law on coherent regional development into the National Assembly, which will be discussed in general in December rather than February. This means that the Government is working to solve the problems that have arisen in individual regions. Perhaps just in case I mention that more than €200 million have already been allocated from European cohesion funds to businesses, €180 million will be allocated to regional economic centres, €45 million has already been allocated to competent centres and €78 million to active employment policy. And I owe you an explanation. We certainly do not mock the problems that are present in the Koroška region; we feel for Korošica and Korosci as well as for all those who live below the threshold of dignity of a worthy person, and therefore we need a system law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Petek would like to speak with you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you for your words, and thank you for your sympathy, but Koroška would also need your help. After today's debate, it is more or less clear to me that Slovenia is divided into first-class, second-class citizens, to divide Slovenia into first-class, second-class regions and, of course, into first-class, second-class topics. I was in the National Assembly a long time ago, that was this year, I proposed an amendment to the Law on Courts, and I suggested that the Mežíska Valley, with the centre of Ravna in Koroška, would also be given a district court. We now have a district court in Slovenj Gradc and one district court also in Slovenj Gradc, and the Mežiska Valley with 27,000 inhabitants could have a very nice district court with five to six judges. This was rejected by the ruling coalition, the minister said that such small courts were not reasonable, but at the same time we found that there were no courts in Slovenia, including three judges, two judges, four judges. There were five, six judges in this court in Ravna. On the other hand, we are building a court palace in Slovenj Gradc, and on Ravna in Koroškem there are empty public spaces. But no! When this government took office, Minister Zalar first suspended his notary at Ravna in Koroška. 27 thousand inhabitants, the most economically powerful part of Koroška; first he cut off the Notary, and then he came to know and return the Notary city and the Notariat back. And instead of enriching the region of Koroška we have the poverty of the region. Now the Minister of Defence has arrived, and she is also moving all of her institutions to Celje, Ljubljana and Minister Kresalova with her gentle hand "seka" to the police administrations and forces the Korean police nicely across the valley in Celje. At the time of the Prevention, it must be acknowledged that the Government has done something in this area; on the contrary, it has become very involved. She quickly found the Minister of Economy as a substitute for jobs in the Prevention Boxmark. Of course, here's the question of what's back here. Is it true that Boxmark's director is a close relative of Minister Radic's? Is this going to be another transfer of state funds to Boxmark in two years or maybe sooner and we're going to talk about similar problems as we are today talking about the collapse and collapse of Prevent? Too bad there wasn't a Minister Gjerkesh here today. The Korean economists gathered at the meeting of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia – Regional Chambers for Koroška in Dravograd on 26 August and wrote him a kind, beautiful letter. They proposed some measures to save Koroška from this situation. As unemployment is not only a problem in Koroška, the situation is also deteriorating due to increasing illiquidity, lack of orders, investments have shrunk, and the lack of access to credit is high in Koroška. The economic part of Nova Ljubljanska banka is, of course, moving to Maribor or wherever it is. And there are several proposals. I wouldn't have listed them here. The government visited the region very quickly a month or two after receiving these proposals, or I think that this was 3 November 2010, some superficial promises and made it clear that the third development axis will probably not be for a while. The minister who lived through his childhood in Mizica said that the Koros should agree on a route that would not be expensive. It is said that the third development axis of the fast road in Koroška will never be, or "on Shantkolova". Of course, soon thereafter, or before that, there were signs of the abolition of the police administration in Slovenj Gradc and could still be listed. I expect my colleagues to break this law today, although it is a very pious desire and a very modest opportunity, but it would be good to bring back the smile that you have been able to take back from this Koros law in these two years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Mr. Victory Jelinčič Tribal, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u130	Thank you very much. We have heard that the Government is again preparing a law on coherent regional development, but we had the first such law in 1999, then it was revised in 2003, but so far nothing has been done in this area. He accepted the law on the rescue of Pomurje, which did not save Pomurje, according to his own words. The money, as I know, is gone, jobs are gone, promised or spoken of were 400 jobs that the Government is now supposed to provide, and as I know it, as people in the Pomur region have told me, none of these jobs have been occupied, all on paper, money has gone, friendly companies have grown fat, some have made a great deal of money, some money has been involved in various propaganda actions at local elections – and that's all. Now we have a marriage that can, to some extent at least, help to save Koroška. In 1918, there was a turning point when one wondered if Ljubljana might have already wanted Koroška to be elsewhere and not in Slovenia. For the operation of how the then Ljubljana government worked and how it recalled our Rudolf Maister from Koroška, so that then with the fraudulent plebiscite the Austrians got the part that was on the other side of the border today, and how the Ljubljana government essentially denied that Rudolf Maister had made a "eat" as it once said, and this means today that he has surrounded Slovenia's national territory when he drove by train to Kotoriba, which is now in Croatia, of course, and that it was ours until 1929, with the Chakovec, it is also forgotten, and it is also Ljubljana's fault that we do not have that end. Now Ljubljana wants to cut off this poor Koroška, which promises her, the sacred promise, I don't know how many ten years' road to Slovenj Gradc, to Dravograd, etc. And it's none of that. On the other hand, the government is working hard on all the crypts, lying in the lower part of the back of the Croats and promising to build them a highway across the Hole and for the River. That's great! Is that the Slovenian government? It's the Slovenian government! This is the government that promises Croats a common airspace, of course with Croatian aircraft, which promises Croats the common embassies, of course with Croatian ambassadors, and which forgets that we are in the European Union, but still push us back to where we came from. If I am not mistaken, Slovenia has chosen a separate, sovereign and, of its own free will, a certain path. No, that's not it anymore. If Croat says so, build up, I don't know what, although in Croatia, Slovenia will rise up and build immediately. After all, let's see what was built next to Mura. For our money, the Croatian embankments were being built, and Croatia is already on our side — and who is doing what? It's nothing. We have an army that doesn't do anything. We have a police force that doesn't do anything. If a police officer or a police officer goes to mark where the city is and where the Slovenian country is, and the Slovenian police take him away and drag him away, they almost shoot him there and similar things. Of course, it was not the police’s fault because he protected the 'flights of the brotherhood and unity of the Socialist Republic of Croatia'. That's how it shows up in this adulterous country of ours! Here it appears, today it will show how much the National Assembly is up to Koroška. If he's even sick. I have a strong feeling that most of the Members here are inside, and this will show up and it will mainly be a coalition, all the same; that the most important to them is that they look beautiful, that they might get their dose of cocaine and that here they are flattened, that they are telling each other how smart they are and, of course, they are taking that money as much as they have left.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u131	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the bill. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 15. Agenda item — defence of the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian military by the summer of 2025 The draft resolution was tabled by the Government. To further explain the motion for a resolution, I give the floor to Dr. Ljubica Jelusič, Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u132	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! First of all, I hope that the success achieved today 92 years ago by Rudolf Maister will also inspire your decision today and, of course, support the overall long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Army by 2025. This is a document following the resolution on the national security strategy adopted in March this year in the National Assembly, which was based on the findings of the 2009 Strategic Review of the Defence Department. The reasons for the new document are that our defence capabilities have begun to fall significantly behind those that were planned with a previous similar document adopted by the 2004 National Assembly. Of course, there are also reasons in the changed security environment, the changed macroeconomic, human and other conditions for the operation of the defence force, and in particular, as has been said, the planned military capabilities no longer followed what is currently the actual situation. We have ensured the professional aspect of this document through the use of the knowledge and experience that we have at both national and international level. Since spring this year, we have had a document publicly available to all interested parties. We coordinated it in the Office of the President of the Republic, addressed by the National Security Council, supported by the State Council and the Defence Committee, and organised a public presentation of the opinions. The main features of the proposed resolution are as follows. This is the highest development guidance document for the Slovenian Army, at the same time a long-term planning document; a document setting out the resources, scope and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces and priority areas for the development of its capacity over the next 15 years. Despite the priority of ensuring security within the framework of the collective defence and security system, we have written down this document that we will not give up the appropriate degree of our own defence capacity and readiness and a reasonable degree of independence and autonomy in the defence and military field. Collective and national security shall be complemented and shall by no means be excluded. For the total scope of the Slovenian Armed Forces, this document foresees that, instead of in 2004, the estimated 14 000 will be reduced to 10,000 members, of whom 8 thousand will be permanent members and 2,000 members of the contractual reserve. In the event of a deterioration of the security environment, the scope and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces may be substantially increased, in line with the concept of the military strategic reserve, up to 25 000 members. The document brings a new balance within the framework of the tasks performed by the Slovenian Armed Forces in the country, all the capabilities of the Slovenian Armed Forces will be prepared to support the system of protection against natural and other disasters. The scope of funding for this defence system, as envisaged by this document, reflects the negative consequences of the current international economic and financial crisis, but we want to ensure or enable at least minimal development of the Slovenian Armed Forces and continue with the key projects that have already been launched. Dear assembly, I propose that after more than a year and a half of preparation, discussion and discussion, the document be supported and accepted and made more cost-effective, but still professionally targeted, the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces to support the priorities of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the field of national defence, the system of protection against natural and other disasters, in international operations and missions, and in the framework of collective defence, and that, with your support, express your confidence in the Slovenian Army as expressed by the public opinion, which has put the Slovenian Army in the right place among the institutions of the political system for the time being trusted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The motion for a resolution was addressed by the Committee on Defence as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Joseph Jerovšk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! At its 17th session, on 28 October, the Defence Committee considered a motion for a resolution on a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025 submitted to the National Assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Before that, a public presentation of the opinions was made on 13 October. The Minister of Defence said at the meeting that the draft resolution took into account the main comments from the public presentation of opinions and the comments submitted by the Legislative and Legal Service. The proposed act is the highest development guidance document for the Slovenian Army, a long-term planning document defining the defence resources, scope and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the advantages of developing its capacity. The resolution reduces the ambitions that have been recorded in a similar 2004 document, taking into account the economic situation in our country and the expected future developments. Despite current economic difficulties, the Republic of Slovenia will not give up the appropriate level of its own defence capability, nor will it give up the appropriate degree of independence and autonomy in the defence field. The scope of the Slovenian Armed Forces provided for in the resolution has just been explained by the Minister, who on the Committee also pointed out that in the coming 15 years, the Slovenian Armed Forces should be concerned about ensuring an adequate volume of financial resources while aware that there are current negative consequences of the international economic and financial crisis, which at this point halt the development or development of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The document applies a forecast that 2 % of gross domestic product would be allocated to defence by 2025. The previous 2004 document has progressed since 2008. We maintain all the capabilities that have been certified so far within the framework of the Alliance, such as the light battalion fighting group, the nuclear battalion, radiological, chemical and biological defences, airspace control capacities, health protection capacities and so on. As regards the capacity in the area of eight-wheel armored vehicles and the construction of a medium battalion battle group, NATO’s goal was to do so by 2012. Our initial proposal, according to the Minister, was to be able to do so by 2016 and it is now noted that this will not be possible before 2020. Mr Lipič, representative of the Office of the President of the Republic, presented the positive opinion of the President of the Republic on the resolution. In the debate, the members of the Committee expressed the view that the proposed document was carefully prepared, responding to the real possibilities and needs of the Slovenian State. They pointed out that some of the issues or questions raised in relation to the resolution should be seriously identified. This is the question, for example, whether the motion for a resolution provides for the transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces from the defence to the Expeditionary Army, which was put forward by the Zares Group. In general, the situation in the country was noted which could threaten the quality of national defence in the long term. This was the opinion of the safety expert that Slovenia receives the characteristics of a classical mafia country. This raises the question of how the Slovenian Army will provide development funds in the light of such conditions, whether 1.3% of GDP will be guaranteed at all, which is now the lower level achieved by the Slovenian Army, or whether the development of the Slovenian Army will be completely halted. Members of the Committee expressed their conviction that the thesis or the desire of some to abolish the Slovenian Army and withdraw from NATO does not have general support. So every demonstration that this is generally accepted or very well accepted in the Slovenian public is manipulation. No amendments were tabled to the proposal by qualified applicants within the time limit set. Before the vote, Mr Zareza announced an obstruction in the vote. In accordance with Rule 126 and Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Defence Committee held a debate and a vote on the parts of the act before it, and adopted its amendments to individual chapters. The Committee adopted the amendments to Chapter 4, to Chapter 5 and to Chapter 12. In the light of the amendments adopted, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure, the text of the supplementary proposal, which includes all the amendments adopted, is prepared. The supplementary motion for a resolution is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u136	Dear Minister, distinguished co-workers, distinguished presidents, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a resolution on a general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025. As you know, and it has just been pointed out several times, even in an incorrect way, the Group of Members has indeed proposed a public presentation of the opinions on the resolution in question, and this public decommissioning and public presentation have also taken place, which we welcome in the Group of Members. We believe that some interesting and useful suggestions have also emerged from the public debate, which were partly taken into account by the authors of the resolution. However, we ourselves see this resolution as a paper of quite flat-rate content, which strongly suggests that the Slovenian Armed Forces will essentially be formed and will assume the role of the so-called Expeditionary Army, as evidenced by the fact that, as key tasks, participation in international operations and missions is largely part of NATO's commitments and, to a lesser extent, support for protection and resolution on domestic soil. In the Group of Ambassadors, we still believe that the concept of the equipment and capabilities of the Slovenian Army is largely subordinated to certain executed facts, this is also a system of 8x8, the famous and erraticly expensive eight-wheelers Patria. We have also observed in the Parliamentary Group that the Slovenian Armed Forces, which is about 85% of the land army, retains and even strengthens the maritime component on one side and removes the armoured units that represent and will continue to represent the backbone of the land army, according to the assessments of all world experts, at least by 2030. On the other hand, this is understandable because of the fact of the poor choice of closure of the clearing debt with Russia when the Janšev government decided to purchase the ship that we have and we will overpayment it, given the projected costs of its maintenance and all the activities associated with it, which is, of course, only part of some of the major bad business in our country in recent years. The integration of the military and administrative part of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia is also part of the Zares programme, but frankly, we doubt that this will be done in the optimum way, since in our opinion the military part interferes too much with the civil part of the Ministry of Defence. In the future, we may need to think about following the Scandinavian model if we are to have the courage to do so. However, because this resolution changes concepts or because we are going into integration, we will continue to think about and propose the concept of greater civilian control over the ministry and the Slovenian Army, because we believe that it is not currently in place or is not being done well enough or not at all. The integration of the military and administrative parts of the MORS would be more acceptable if, at the same time as an appropriate amendment to the Defence Act, they increased the role of the National Assembly in strategic decisions concerning the use of the Slovenian Army in foreign operations. The new model for the functioning of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence, or partial civil control, also wants the parliamentary group and the party Zares to implement it through the Defence Act. Because and because we believe that this resolution is better than the previous one, we will abstain, we will not support it and we will not vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u138	Madam Minister with fellow Members, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the proposal and solutions that reduce the unnecessary and non-economic use of budgetary resources, as it is necessary to save, and therefore we have also proposed a savings amendment to the budget of around EUR 200 million, which has unfortunately been rejected. When it comes to equipping the army, the public is always critical and divided. Members of the Slovenian People's Party are also concerned that a coalition is also divided in this case. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, as an opposition party, we are even more concerned about the economic use of budgetary resources and doubt the proposed long-term programme for the development and equipping of the military. The advantage of the Slovenian Army should be in high competence, adapted to specific circumstances and to good international links in a defensive sense. The public presentation of opinions on the motion for a resolution raised many doubts about the correct direction of the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, mainly from the mouth of former members of the manoeuvre structure of veterans of the war for the independence of Slovenia. Experienced experts point out that the extent of capacity is disproportionate, that without effective air protection and aviation support and without effective armoured vehicles, real tanks, our army does not have the right conditions to fight or defend our country effectively. It is quite clear that armored vehicles or patriots, whether this is 4x4, or 6x6, or 8x8 on Slovenian territory in extreme weather conditions and on steep slopes of the side are not the most effective. The Slovenian army should be upgraded and developed in directions that have proved strategically and tactically effective in the defence actions and fighting so far, and, of course, in accordance with treaties and commitments within the framework of NATO and the European Union and the obligations towards the United Nations. We've committed ourselves to this. Therefore, they do not abstain from the average direction and general standards written down in the sense that all the forces of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia will be able to carry out the tasks of high intensity within all modes of operation. How and by whom and is this even possible under given circumstances? In situations of threats, terrorism and growing intolerance in the nearby region, the dangers of major natural disasters still apply: act as if there will be eternal peace, and be prepared as if there will be war tomorrow. In doing so, we must also be aware that modern weapons and equipment require a high level of knowledge and skills that cannot be acquired in a short period of time. Therefore, they should seek a formula that would allow countries to mobilise sufficient defence forces in a short period of time, have adequate tasks, adequate self-sustainment supplies and, in regular form, train special units to participate in NATO's actions, fulfil the obligations of the United Nations and, in particular, in the execution of disaster assistance at home and in the neighbourhood, in humanitarian actions and so on. Let me conclude with a statement from the Slovenian People's Party programme: the Slovenian Armed Forces must provide their own defence and be professional, efficient and capable of the most demanding interventions, in accordance with the principles and expectations of the Euro-Atlantic Alliance. And I add, that's what the geostrategic position of our country is forcing us to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Joško Godec has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected team from the Ministry, a respected colleague, a colleague! The position of the DeSUS Group on the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces until 2025 is as follows. The resolution replaces the existing resolution on the 2004 general long-term programme for the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which was adopted before the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union and NATO. As then pledged no longer corresponds to the current situation and resulting changes in the international protection environment. In particular, the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces need to be re-coordinated, and the definition of our country's actual material, human and other capabilities is also crucial. The design of the programme takes into account the new international environment and all forms and sources of threats. Accordingly, emphasis is placed on such development of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which will enable it to work together in a multinational military framework and efficiency, responding to various military challenges and also challenges of another nature. The challenge of the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces will be to develop capacities and not forces such as the previous practice. Financial resources will be provided in line with real opportunities, which is why Slovenia currently allocates 1.59% of GDP, which means we are in the middle of gold. We are 14th among the Member States of NATO, among the 27 members. The long-term level of defence expenditure is aimed at achieving 2% of GDP, which is an effort to meet NATO's political commitment and it is possible that economic conditions and wider social circumstances will not achieve this ambition until after 2025. It also follows from the explanation of the proposal that the State will seek to achieve a more favourable structure of defence expenditure. The draft resolution, as assessed by the DeSUS Group in identifying national interests and national security objectives, takes fully into account the treatment of national security and cooperation in the system of protection against natural and other disasters. The starting points are national interests and objectives resulting from the fundamental values of Slovenian society. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the motion for a resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u142	Nicely greeted. The motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme is certainly acceptable, but quite a few points need to be noted. For example, when it comes to financial resources, we forget that there is much to be gained, especially through the sale of obsolete military equipment, of mechanisms that could be sold peacefully, but our legislation does not allow this disposal. If we take a comparison to decommission a larger calibre of Slovak ammunition, the Slovaks charge us this as if they would destroy the matter and then sell the ammunition further, Slovenia could do so. But it is true that such foolish laws on the sale of old weapons, equipment and ammunition as Slovenia has, no one in the world has. If we also take from financial sources that there is something to be done in planning for development and research, one wonders why it does not connect, including in this motion for a resolution, and the use of the Ministry of Higher Education. Slovenian colleges could do a lot of things. After all, if we look at that one of the most attractive pedestrian mines of PMA3 is a product of Slovenian knowledge, then we could do something else, not just that. The connections to the aeroclubs would also make sense for something to be done about it, because the pilots are missing. The training of pilots is expensive, and if we already have aeroclubs and the Air Force, the Air Force could do part of the education not at the expense of the state, but at the expense of those aviation enthusiasts. I think this would be a good thing, especially when it comes to the surpluses of school aircraft to be excluded from operational use in point 8.2. And where they're going - probably in the cut, because it's hard to make a deal with the ministry to let those old planes go to the air club that they could restore and use. I'm sure there's one more thing that's important. I miss more in this motion for a resolution. I miss what's necessary for every good soldier. This is somewhat the case in the order of three things: motivation, second patriotism, and third education. Then comes the means and equipment. For we have a paid army and without patriotism this paid army will act as it did at N'Djamena in Chad in the early 1970s, when the paid soldiers on the one hand agreed not to shoot each other, but all together after those that I will not say to them, because again someone will say that I am expanding I do not know what. In short, it's a few important things. But to return to patriotism, what is necessary here. External appearance is very important. Our parade uniform is a laugh, and yet we have one song that says, "But you're gonna love me when I wear a white, sabre-shaped dress, with a shotgun on." This song was about the Celje Regiment and these were special uniforms, within the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, which she could appreciate what was Slovenian. We do not appreciate what is Slovenian, and I think that this needs to be fixed urgently. Also lip leaves on epulets. The Ustasha, the most clavish, black legion, was considered to be the symbol of the lip leaf, and Croatian pilots and all the air force had the lime branch in their tags. Our gentlemen who've dealt with it don't know that, and that's damn sad. Maybe there's something else about the museum. The military museum is as important as the literature that writes about our soldiers and our military history — we do not have it. But if they don't understand something, then they say, you can't give it away, even if it's free, because it doesn't belong to us, that's what it means, I don't know where, to the "culocafry"! And gentlemen forget that this is also a matter of globalisation in this area; but well, they do not understand. Maybe one more thing. It is necessary to review and also to consider those who decide on the purchase of various operational assets and weapons. In this case, we would not have purchased a stupid Belgian F2000 rifle, but we would have taken that ESAR 1 16 system or 1 17 that evolved at the same time and would have been in the world's peak. In this way – just another specialty.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Franz Žnidaršič on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. [[He's not here.]] Mr Janez Kikelj on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, Mr Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. We have a long-awaited resolution on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025, which is almost half a year before us. In this regard, we have had a debate on the Committee, rather unusually, but nothing wrong, as well as a public presentation of the opinion. The existing document, adopted in 2004, provided for development and equipment by 2015. The document was adopted at a time when the circumstances were significantly different and, unfortunately, in the current situation became unrealistic. The proposed new document aims to harmonise the development and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces with actual capabilities while aware of demographic trends and the changed financial situation. The Ministry of Defence thus reduces the ambitions of the scale and equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces as well as the ambitions of financial resources, and the document itself is more general, which we welcome in the Group of Social Democrats, as the commitments are still in force in a document that very precisely defines the acquisition of arms systems and the planned personnel scale of the Slovenian Armed Forces. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that it is a time for a new, more realistic document, which will also allow the preparation of other necessary documents, on the basis of which we will provide the Alliance with credible answers regarding the defence plans of our country. The Social Democrats' Group will support the motion for a resolution on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group on Strategic and Doctrine Documents dealing with the defence capacity of the State and the participation of the Slovenian Armed Forces within the framework of the alliances and within the framework of the UN mandate, it is based on the fact that the Slovenian Armed Forces is one of the most important attributes of statehood, and we have therefore addressed the resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025 from the perspective of state-of-the-art perspective on the changed international security situation and the acute political, financial and economic circumstances in the country. We are adopting a resolution at a time when, in the opinion of the Minister, the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces has been halted because of the enormous cuts in the budget. Due to the changing situation, the country needs an adapted development guidance document to provide a basis for the long-term development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces. We are obliged to provide such capacities that will enable an appropriate level of national defence within the framework of the collective defence and security system and the greatest possible security of Slovenian soldiers and soldiers. In the Group of Members, we believe that the resolution solidly summarises the modern international environment and within it the security threats and risks. We are also aware that in the future, in addition to conventional security challenges, there will be an increasing presence of so-called hybrid threats, including the use of terrorist, criminal and other forms of action, including the possibilities offered by information technology. However, climate change, demographic, financial and economic movements will increasingly affect international environmental security. In the SDS Group, we have closely monitored the preparation of the resolution and, in particular, the daily political upheavals, delays and adjustments within the parties of the current government coalition, after the resolution on the national security strategy and the resolution on the overall long-term Slovenian military equipment programme have entered the parliamentary procedure. It's pretty obvious that a petition was made out of coalition lines. Let's end the army. Let's get out of Nat. We are amazed at the lack of confidence and doubts in the part of the coalition regarding the defence policy's intentions, the sincerity of the declared mission of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the difficulty of the Party of Zares and some other Members that the resolution foresees the expeditional nature of the Slovenian Army. Such propaganda, which knowingly distorts facts, is an unconstitutional political act if not an attempt to undermine the defence capacity of the state. The development of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025 will be conditioned in particular by the ability to provide conditions that allow for further transformation of both the scope and structure and its equipment and competence. Chapter 4 provides for the establishment of an appropriate scope and structure of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which will ensure defence capabilities both within the framework of the collective defence and security system and the appropriate level of defence of its own. In the Group of Members, we believe that more ambitions should be shown in the chapter dealing with ambitions for the functioning of the Slovenian Armed Forces, especially in the development of capacity to carry out national defence. In the parliamentary group, we agree with the emphasis placed on national defence within the framework of the collective defence and security system, as introduced in the resolution by the Defence Committee. We are also aware that very serious efforts are needed to ensure the scope or structure of human resources resources, as well as to achieve appropriate relationships between members of the permanent staff and members of the voluntary contractual reserve, the ratio should be 4 : 1, and to establish an optimal relationship between officers and soldiers, which is inadequate at this time. The development of the capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces provided for in the resolution will also be a very difficult and long-term one of the most responsible projects. The changed domestic and international circumstances dictate the redefining of certain capacities, as also provided for by the resolution. For the Slovenian public, it is a very important message that the resolution provides for the operational use of medium-sized vehicles 8x8 which the military profession recognises as the most appropriate equipment of the Slovenian Armed Forces within the framework of the defence fighting capacity. In the parliamentary group, we will support the motion for a resolution because we want the development objectives of the Slovenian Armed Forces to be clear in the country and the world and must reflect the state's readiness to provide national defence. In short, we are for the paraphrased Caesar's saying: If you want peace, have a good army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have been tabled. The vote on the motion for a resolution will take place today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on protection against natural and other accidents within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Here you go, Mr. Mag. Urosh Krek, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! We prepared a amendment to the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, in accordance with the government's assurance given by the National Assembly in February of this year to consider the initiative of the Group of Members to amend the Fires Act. At that time, we proposed that the status of lifeguards should be amended by a statutory law, not by specific sectoral laws such as the Firearms Act, and that the situation between the employer and the voluntary paramedics employed by the employer should be regulated in particular. It is this relationship that has been neglected so far, although most of the problems in voluntary rescue workers arise from this very title. In other words, employers are not stimulated to hire or support volunteering among their employees. We are trying to make this relationship better and more appropriate with the amendment of the law. That we are on the right track, she also confirmed the general debate on the amendment of the law and also the second debate on the labour force, as well as the consideration in the State Council, which supports the law. In particular, I would like to point out: for the first time in one place, the draft law lists NGOs acting in the public interest in the area of protection against natural and other disasters and manage humanitarian activities, which will remove the remaining doubts as to who is acting in the public interest. The law allows employers to enforce payment of salaries with all contributions and taxes that bear the wages, i.e. the gross paid to their employees for the period of absence in the implementation of the protection and rescue of the person who called. According to the law, the new employer will also have the right to pay the loss of income in such a case, which amounts to 20% of the remuneration paid by the employer to the employee. This at least partially compensated the employer for the loss of income. The employer will also be able to refund the salary paid for the period of incapacity for work due to injury or illness suffered by the employee during the performance of the protection, rescue and assistance tasks. This is the absence of up to 30 days or 120 days per year. This refund, like the refund of wages and lost income, will burden the State or the municipality that will call for rescue workers. In the following year, the State will take over the costs of health checks for operational firefighters performing the most demanding tasks and using insulating breathing devices. This health review will be an integral part of the periodic training of operational firefighters to carry out those tasks. In case of intervention in major disasters in more vulnerable areas next year, we will also provide additional 400 firefighters and several other rescue workers in case of an accident or temporary incapacity to work. This is a rescue group, which, in particular in recent years, has increasingly been referred from less vulnerable parts of the country to aid in an area affected by a major accident. This is what we have done in recent floods. These are key novelties brought by the marriage novelties, and individual solutions have been further refined by the Defence Committee. However, we will strive to enforce other sectoral laws that improve the status of particularly voluntary rescue workers, such as firefighters and others. Our proposals are already taken into account in the new proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance. We have also proposed appropriate solutions for the real estate tax law and some other tax laws and similar ones. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. I propose that you support the law, as you have expressed your support for the previous document, for which I thank you, and that you also accept that we will implement it as soon as possible, especially since we will provide funds for individual changes and other changes in the Ministry and will not need to interfere with other activities or amend the budget for the following year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr President Jožet Jerovšk.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u150	For the last time today, I'm going to read the report. At its 17th session, on 28 October, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia addressed a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly. In addition to the representatives of the proposer, representatives of the Directorate for Protection and Rescue and the Association of Fires of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was informed of the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Council of State and the opinion of the Municipality of Ljubljana. The Legislative and Legal Service made comments to Articles 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 10 and 11. According to the Minister of Defence, the amendments to the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters are prepared in accordance with the initiative of the Group of Members to amend the Firearms Act, which was introduced in the National Assembly at the beginning of this year. At that time, the Government promised that it would make a change to the statutory law for the status of volunteers in the system of protection against natural and other disasters and not to amend certain sectoral laws, such as the Fires Act. The proposed law sets out all those NGOs that act in the public interest in the field of protection against natural and other disasters and carry out humanitarian activities in this regard. It allows employers to enforce payment of salaries with all contributions and taxes charged to their employees for the period of their absence as members of civil protection or to voluntary paramedics in different units and services. Refund shall be borne by the State authority or local authority which has called on the member to perform the protection, rescue and assistance tasks. The bill also provides for compensation for temporary incapacity to work for injury or illness. The employer may refund the salary paid for the period of incapacity to work for injury or illness suffered by the employee during the performance of the protection, rescue and assistance tasks. This cost is also borne by the person who called upon the member to carry out the protection and rescue tasks. The State will, according to the Minister's assurances, take over the coverage of certain costs in cases where there will be health checks on operational volunteer firefighters and other rescue workers who have to work with insulating respiratory appliances. The State will also cover the costs of accident insurance for those firefighters and rescue workers who, in accordance with the plans for the protection and resolution of the relocation from less vulnerable areas in the country in the event of major disasters. The Firefighters Association of Slovenia welcomes and supports the proposed changes. The proposed legislation will make a particularly positive contribution to the regulation of the relations between employers and rescue workers, since the employer may, in addition to the remuneration and the corresponding contributions from the competent national authority or local community body, which has called for the worker to carry out the protection, rescue and assistance tasks, also require a report on the loss of income. No amendments were tabled to the legislative proposal by qualified applicants within the time limit set. Following the examination of the articles of the legislative proposal, the Committee adopted its amendments to Articles 1, 5, 11 and 13 on the basis of Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted, is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Since the meeting held its first reading of the bill at its 20th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place in half an hour in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 22nd meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 16.10.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u152	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Protection. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. Amendment to Article 13 of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 27. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the marriage would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 36. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Law on International Protection. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 4. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda – the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and the Supplementation of the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, following a reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 85 votes against none. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda – the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tax Procedure Act is under consideration, following an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 23. 11. 2010 We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the 6th Article of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. 85 Members and Members voted for 40 to 44. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 15. We're voting. There were 87 votes in favour, 38 against 47. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to the 29th Article of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. We're voting. There were 87 votes in favour, 38 against 47. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 87 Members and Members voted for 50, against 37. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Tax Procedure Act. We're voting. There were 83 votes in favour and 47 against 10. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda – first consideration of the draft law on development support for the region of Korea for the period 2012-2016. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on development support for the region of Korea for the period 2012-2016 is suitable for further consideration. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Friday. Anyone else? I'm opening applications. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar, you have the floor on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u153	Thank you for your word. With regard to the proposal on development support for Koroška, the DeSUS Group faced a great dilemma. Although it has been said that the DeSUS Group will support this bill, there have been certain consultations at the time before the vote, in which I must say that we will vote in the DeSUS Group on our own conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Please, calm down! The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u155	Thank you very much. It seems that the conscience of some Members is a very strange and purchasing matter. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support this law, which we consider to be a time to do something for the Koro region as well. Koroška is removed from Ljubljana and the person has the feeling that on purpose, that the gentlemen of Ljubljana do not want to develop Koroška, they do not want to give way to Koroška, they do not want to fix things, but they want to erase everything. If possible, we would like to push what is left into the arms of the Austrians, so the destruction or abolition of police administrations in Slovenia Gradec and similar matters. The excuses our government has are clear, foolish and illogical; but they already know why. However, they might like to see a criminal association up there trading drugs to a greater extent than is being traded in drugs today in Slovenia. I think it's embarrassing that he doesn't want to help Koroška, and a man would expect at least those people who are from that end to be for this marriage. It is sad that such a law does not wish to be prepared by the government, but must be prepared by the opposition. However, although I am sure that the law will not be adopted, I must say that we are most pleased to support it in the Slovenian National Party Group. And in the future, we will do everything in our power to develop Koroška. Of course, the first is what, at the beginning of his term of office, Prime Minister Pahor almost swore to God that he would build a road towards Slovenia to Graz and Dravograd – nothing would appear to happen. So let's at least confirm this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Miro Petek is next, and Dr Gorenak has also been announced. Who will be on behalf of the Group of Members? Mr. Miro Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. Our parliamentary group will also vote in its conscience – all Members will vote in favour of this law. Koroška is in big trouble. There's a lot of unemployment in Koroška. There are about 5,000 Korošci at the office of work; there is 18% unemployment in the Radlje ob Drava municipality. Koroška is characterised by low wages; in September this year the average gross wage of Koroška was EUR 359; the average wage of the worker in central Slovenia was EUR 662, i.e. EUR 300 or more than 20%. The crustaceans are moving out. Three decades ago, there were 78 thousand inhabitants in Koroška, now another 72 thousand and more. There are no concessions for universities for Koroški – young Korošci go to universities in Ljubljana, Maribor – and we rarely return to Koroška. The economic backlog of the region of Koroška has increased by 30% on average in recent years. In the field of social development, Koroška is lagging behind 20%, institutions are being abolished. With the gentle hand of the minister, police administrations, including the Police Administration of Slovenj Gradec, are hereby abolished. The situation is similar or worse than in Pomure. Pomurje has a very good road connection with central Slovenia, so that we do not continue to speak against Budapest. In Pomura, wherever you roll, warm water flows and they can make a healing site, Koroška doesn't have it. In short, Pomurje has a perspective, Koroška does not have a future with significant help from the State. That is why Koroška asks for help, Koroška calls for positive discrimination. And those who are against this law, all of you are landing on Slovenia at three speeds. In "Slovenia's First Speed" Ljubljana is an area for which you accept laws in the National Assembly. In "Slovenia's Second Speed" there are regions for which you also adopt laws. "Slovenia 3rd Speed" are regions such as Koroška, which are in reverse, progressing in reverse gear. The Koros will remember your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u158	Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Korošice and Koroška, from the Slovenian People's Party, we inform you that this time you will receive six votes and after the next parliamentary elections 20. Of course, this communication also applies to other citizens and citizens. The time will definitely come when we will take care of coherent regional development. Harmonised regional development can only be taken care of through regionalisation, through which we have been talking for several years. At the moment, the regionalisation of Korošica and Korosci does not help because it is simply not. It is therefore necessary to adopt this intervention law. Not just for Koroška. Tomorrow, the day after tomorrow for other such endangered provinces. Why should we vote for this law? The proposal sets out a competition promotion programme, provides for investment promotion and allows employment to be created. Then the bill allows the development of human resources and the bill encourages social entrepreneurship, invites domestic and foreign investors. This proposal for a law for Koroška also represents a stop to brain drain. And this is one of the most important values that Korošci and Korošice can get. What do you need to do? What is already written in the law itself. These are the three real and the main things. Firstly, the early establishment of a regional higher education centre, which will be linked to its development guidelines and study programmes in relation to the regional economy. Secondly, it is essential and necessary to encourage both tax reliefs, incentives for employment and the establishment of an inter-enterprise education centre, and transport infrastructure must be made in the first place. What else does this marriage have? What the law of Pomour didn't have has resources. 220 million euros. 220 million euros is a lot of money. But if we remember that there is a billion left in Europe that could be used by this year, that's only 20% of what you want with an incompetent government that only a few relatives of those in the government believe, about 20% and 18%, that's less than 20 members of the National Assembly. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their own name? Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. I will definitely support the marriage, and there are several reasons for that. One thing is certain that we have already adopted a similar law for Pomurje. Secondly, I have already said in the debate today that this is a endangered border area and that it will be a small plebiscite and that we will not regret today's wrong decision over the years, as we regret another wrong decision today. In addition, the ecological recovery of Koroška needs to be carried out. There has been unhealthy production for decades and the processing of zinc and lead by old, outdated technologies and pollution is large and the rehabilitation is expensive and demanding. The Carinthian specialty was also that, over the last two decades, it has been economically exhausted from the tycoons, after sometimes rather strange economic decisions and also the recovery of the German partners to the largest employer in Koroška, it has not helped much since the crisis was over-winded. We look forward to a comprehensive solution from the government's side, which is not out of sight and is essentially just buying time. In any case, a comprehensive solution would be decentralisation and the introduction of provinces. For all these reasons, I will vote in favour of the bill and perhaps appeal to some colleagues not only by conscience but also by origin.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u162	Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u163	Thank you very much. How nice to meet you! I'm not going to support the bill. Not to support the development of Koroška, an area that I know is facing in a situation similar to that of the White Country and Kočevsky, where I come from. It surprises me, and it will probably also be the electorate and electorate, that, although we are representatives of all citizens and citizens, we are obviously only thinking about some areas and we are forgetting that a time ago there was also a bill for the area from which I come, but there was not so much support as today. And I am sure, as is the position of the Social Democrats' Group, that it is right to resolve matters by means of a system law, because I am not sure that we are all most pleased with the fact that the individual law may have saved Pomurje, although I am not unsatisfying or opposed in any way, but today we find that the problem is both in Koroška, the problem is in Bela Krajina and in Kočevska. Therefore, I think it makes sense to support the law on coherent regional development and thus to address the problem of unemployment and development threats both in Koroška and a few months ago in the White landscape and in Kočevsko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u164	Mr. Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u165	Thank you very much. It was not my turn to hold the debate, because time was running out, so the following. Of course I'll support this marriage, that's the first. Second of all, it seems to remind us of a few things. The law is directly related to the Murska Sobota or, if you like, to Pomurje as well as to the provinces as such. The government acts panicking, the government acts like, I'll say, a captain without a compass, it's clear as a day, and we're on the run. There is, and there is some explanation, because in Koroška it is different, because Koroška is the proposaler Friday and so on and so on. However, I would like to remind you of the provinces that are directly involved in this matter or not to discuss the adoption of the provincial law. During our term of office, I myself went from the parliamentary group to the opposition's parliamentary group and then sought your support. You told me that the then government is just a representative of those who don't know anything, who don't make good laws, so you won't support "landing". You also said that 'landing' is in your interest and that it will be prepared by you who know it better. But, look, you also wrote that in a coalition contract or a coalition agreement. And what happened? Half your term of office has passed, and you have nothing on the table. I believe that in the next term, if we take over the government, very soon, probably in the first year, we will meet with such a law, and I don't know what you'll tell me then. Are you going to say again that you know better? No! No! You've had four years of chances, and you haven't had one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u166	Mr. Matjaž Zanoškar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. I'll be happy to support this marriage. I am pleased to support that I believe that I am one of the good friends of the situation in Koroška, and I know that you are Koroška at this moment, in this situation that is very difficult, cannot help yourself. I could help myself with this bill that's been proposed. All those elements that are a marriage and a condition for development have a stake in their contents, so it seems to me that marriage is the right thing to do and should be accepted. I am grateful to the proposer for giving the initiative for this law the opportunity to get to know all colleagues and colleagues about the situation in Koroška. Of course, I believe in the law on coherent regional development, but I know that this is a solution that would be very fast on the programme, and very quickly could really help develop Koroška, one way or another. Although she is very unaware of the fate of this proposed law, one thing is that a clear message has been given about Koroška and its situation and that a clear message has also been given from today's discussions to the Government, that it should take action once and for all to put an end to the state institutions in Koroška, because each abolition of the state institution also reduces the number of jobs, those of quality. Well, I'd be happy to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u168	We're voting. 87 Members and Members voted for 40 to 45. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the decision is not adopted and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill is closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda – the motion for a resolution on the general long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2025. As the amendments to the supplementary motion for a resolution have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home working body, the motion for a resolution would not be harmonised. We're voting. There were 85 votes in favour and 73 in favour against 1. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda – the third consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents, the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 85 Members and Members voted, all in favour. [[The vote was 85.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – Questions of Members and Members. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Borut Pahor, to the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak, on the legal arrangements for the illegal crossings of the state border during Yugoslavia. Mr. Gorenak, an explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u169	Thank you very much. I asked the President of the Government a question which is of great importance at this time. Indeed, it was a matter of the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court. In my view, the President of the Government did not respond in a way that would allow for a clear or genuine enlightenment on this issue. I'm only going to focus on two parts of his answer. The Prime Minister of the Government said he fully trusted the candidate because he also trusted the Minister and because he couldn't imagine what it would be like if the candidate didn't speak the truth. That would be too much of a burden for him. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the candidate does not speak the truth, this is the first thing, and the second thing, the Minister of Justice has not made this procedure clear in any way, because he has not performed the basic tasks that he should have performed under law. This is: at least what it is, to face all those who spoke against or to the detriment of the candidate, as well as those who, these two, spoke in favour of the candidate. The Minister has passed these legal duties and has not done so. I even believe that the minister, including the coalition, is also gravely deceiving the President of the Government. This stems in fact from the explanation and reply of the President of the Government. The President of the Government compared the matter to the Nürnber processes and the situation in the Third Reich. And he was talking about legitimacy and legality. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about more than that. When it came to the question that these people were working lawfully, in accordance with the laws of that time, but illegally, and were therefore convicted in 1947, it was a matter of more than one; it was not even a candidate who did not work legally. Why didn't he work legally? Because if he was a judge — as we know he was a judge — and if he was at the scene of that murder, he had to know that the murder was prescribed and that the murder was not a violation. However, he only calmly signed those documents and handed them over to JLA. That means he's given up his duties. I am convinced that the debate on this subject is also in the broader interest of the President of the Government's reply to extend things a little bit to the situation around Minister Zalar, even to what, say, of Satex, where, after 14 years, no one is really to blame, except that we can pay taxpayers for everything they have spent and the judges have not ruled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u170	We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Puksic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Puksic, to the question of Mr Puksic, on the matter of amendments to the operational programmes and on the impact of these changes on European funds. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u171	Colleagues and colleagues! We are talking about all three operational programmes for which the Republic of Slovenia has negotiated with the European Commission for the period 2007-2013. We have negotiated approximately €4.2 billion in these operational programmes. The negotiations with the European Commission were concluded in June and November 2007. In the period since 2007, when the negotiations were concluded, until the handover of the government, by 2008, the previous government had called for approximately €1.5 billion. If we were to move forward at this stage 2009-2010, we would have €4.5 billion today. If about 4.2 billion are available, about 5.5 billion to 6 billion are needed if we are to make use of all of this in the end. Since we are already at the middle of this period and because the situation in drawing on European funds is catastrophic, the data of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shows that by the end of August 2010 we have made use of some 500 million euros by the end of August, and will also be up-to-date by the end of October. This is still only half of what was planned in the 2010 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The state of use of these funds is catastrophic and therefore it is necessary to discuss in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in order to change the right way and approach to drawing on European funds. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been able to modify operational programmes this year. Given that almost 80% of its proposals have been rejected by the European Commission and that the Government is hiding this from Members and Members, and although we have adopted a number of conclusions on drawing European funds or amending operational programmes by Members and Members of the National Assembly in the Commission for Local Self-Government, the Government has not taken this into account in any single case, it is, of course, the responsibility of both the President of the Government, the Ministers of Gaspari, Gjerkesh and the Finance Minister. Not only will responsibility remain, but money in Brussels, because this responsibility does not help, but billions of euros are already standing in Brussels, it is imperative that this debate be held.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u172	We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 46. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Yelinčič Plemenite, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Borut Pahor, to the question of the victory of Jelinčič Plmenite on the rise in corruption and crime. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 45. (For the vote was 32.)(against 45.) I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Ivan Grill, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnić, to the question of Mr Grill's question on irregularities in the provision of chimney services. Mr Ivan Grill on behalf of the Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The question I have raised to the Minister for the Environment is related to a number of problems and problems in the provision of chimney services. Although this topic has been dealt with several times in the National Assembly, at least through questions sent, there is no improvement. Moreover, we are witnessing a number of chimney fires, which are observed every year by about 500 people. In addition, we have also witnessed a number of poisonings caused by the inaction or poor functioning of smoke-water devices, and these poisonings are over a hundred per year. It's so lucky we haven't been getting any deaths lately. They are dissatisfied with the management of chimney services. Also on the part of some, especially small-scale chimney companies, we also hear criticism of this area, which is truly messy. If we pull the common denominator, we find that the biggest problem is that the state does not have control over the provision of these services. Since, of course, there is no control, the work is done inequity, and even more; even so, some chimneys or businesses send user bills to pay services they have not done. We have seen the case when a lady received a 30-euro bill, which, of course, she did not pay because the service had not been performed, and within a year this cost was then over EUR 300. This means that, in essence, it is a major unjustified injury primarily to people who are most at risk. On the question to the minister whether anything has been regulated in the field of control, he said he was trying to fix something and that he was also expecting the help of the National Assembly. For this reason, I believe that the general debate on this area, where we would light up from all angles, would be for the benefit of those who will also try to prepare these solutions. I am therefore convinced that if this is supported, we can contribute to this important area being regulated and, above all, that it will be comparable to the areas that are doing this in other countries. They do not have as many problems as they do in Slovenia due to unjustifiably awarded concessions. Now it is also a big problem that this profession is deficient, that people or young people do not decide on this profession because it is marked as something bad. This is not good for the future, but above all, here our safety, fire safety will be greatly threatened all the time. I hope that this proposal is supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u174	We're voting. The vote is under way. 77 Members and Members voted for 31 votes to 46. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Zvonk Laha, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnic, to the question of Mr Zvonka Laha on waste management. Mr Zvonko Lah, please, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u175	Thank you very much. According to the waste management programme, there are 15 waste management centres in Slovenia, but so far we do not know where these centres will be and how many will be. The Ministry of Environment and Space has announced that there will be 10 centres. The latest news is that even less, but we don't know where or what stage of preparedness these projects are at. There are also many projects in the operational programme for drawing European funds, but we do not know whether these funds will be spent or built up. It is also the case that an inspection service at the Ministry of Environment and Space issues a decision on the closure of landfills, even when it has a waste recovery project at the Ministry for two years, has not yet been approved of this project. This is why waste is transported up and down Slovenia, where the municipalities can arrange for waste disposal. Since this is such a pressing issue, it would be right to discuss this issue here in the National Assembly and finally determine how much is needed by the depository body to dispose of the residues of processed waste and to resolve it until the deadline promised to Europe. The municipalities themselves cannot agree and the funds already invested in the projects are thus failing. It would therefore be appropriate to prepare a thorough analysis at the ILO and to hold a debate on this topic in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u176	We're voting. The vote is under way. 82 Members and Members voted, 35 to 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. With regard to the proposal by Mr Marijan Pojbič, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, and the Minister for the Economy of Mags. Darje Radic on the question of Mr Pojbič's mission concerning measures to improve the economic and social situation in the Republic of Slovenia. On behalf of the parliamentary group, explanation of vote, Mr Pojbič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u177	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Since I was not satisfied with the answers of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the disabled and Mrs Radiceva, the Minister for Economic Affairs, I proposed that a broader debate be held on this issue in the National Assembly. As I said and as we all know in Parliament, we have over 100,000 unemployed in the Republic of Slovenia, and this is an extremely alarming information that should give thought to all those who are sitting here today in the National Assembly. But obviously the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is dealing with all other matters and with all, I will say, against this important problem of almost insignificant matters, rather than solving and looking for solutions to create new jobs, in order to try to get the Slovenian State out of this social, economic and financial crisis. We can also see that if we look on one side at 100 or 110 thousand unemployed, on the other hand, we have a lot of those who are employed and do not receive wages after a few months, do not pay social contributions and so on. These are too important problems that the Government should also be aware of and seek appropriate solutions for such important issues. The government has time to deal with how to give 250 million euros to Greece, how to give the guarantee back to Ireland for 250 million now, and it is not in any way considering how to save its own economy, its own citizens and its citizens, if this money, which I am talking about, is more than half a billion euros, invested in new jobs and the rehabilitation of businesses, because we have 6 to 7,000 companies on the verge of liquidity. And imagine that there will be a black scenario and that these companies and these employees will land at the employment agency – what will be the situation in this country, and who will be the one who will create it? And this government and this coalition should be aware of that. If we are to get this country out of a critical situation, from this economic, economic and financial crisis, we need to start thinking differently. Not only in this direction to put out fires with social assistance, but to provide new jobs where money will come into the pension register, the health treasury and the state budget. Only when we reduce unemployment to 55,000, as it was 2008, will we be able to say that this government has done something in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u178	We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 79 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Justice Minister Aleš Zalar to the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak on the legislative arrangements for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court. Dr. Gorenak on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u179	Yeah, sure. Very briefly. The law clearly dictates to the Minister of Justice: it must examine all the circumstances and all the facts surrounding the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court. That's what the law says. The law provides for a two-stage decision. First instance or I will say the first part of the decision is the decision of the Council of Justice and the general meeting of the Supreme Court. These two organs have made their point. However, what these two authorities have said is an opinion. Whether or not the Minister takes this into account. The Minister has decided to take this into account. The second part of the procedure, which requires the involvement of the Minister of Justice, is by law, ladies and gentlemen, I stress that he must examine all the circumstances and facts. What did the minister do? Of all the things the law imposes on him, he did the following: he invited the candidate and they talked. And in the interview, the candidate, as the minister wrote, explained all the things the minister wanted to know. The minister is absolutely not interested in what Constitutional Judge Zobsac says, what the judges of the Supreme Court say, he is even less interested in what they say, say, prosecutors, those who were at the scene. The minister even took another step further; he went and found the 1984 entry, but the steps he should have taken by law were not taken by the minister; also the Yugoslav regulations were clear, all the state authorities that operate among themselves keep one copy of the official letter. At the time, it was more accurate when there were no such machines when we wrote differently. This means that the minister should find a copy of the copy in the court of law or even in the court of copiers, which is why the prosecutor also made a statement. Well, the minister with the law of certain tasks has not done, under no circumstances has he done it! I'll point out, that's the law for him. And since the Minister has not carried out these tasks, as I asked him on the question of the Member State, the situation is clear: we need to clear them up here. Maybe with your push on the "yes" button when you vote, or in some other way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Mag Group of Members Borut Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Well, I must say that the Minister has done everything necessary, so of course my vote and the voice of the Group against the debate will be. It really surprises me how quiet it became at the meeting of the Commissioner-Immunity Commission, after the judge, the candidate, explained his aspect of the story, and when all he had done was explained by our Minister, there were simply no more facts, there were no arguments. However, it is only the following: the highest judicial institution in this country, which has the form of work, is too lagging behind for nine months with temporary management. And I wonder what the motives of those who try this kind of science instead of correct, strategic, successful work are to continue. Is it possible for anyone to have a legal disorder in their political interest? The Minister took into account the opinion of the Council of Justice, the Minister took into account the opinion of the General Meeting and, of course, also the information and indications which had been read, examined in detail; thus, those relating to the legislation concerning the rules and, of course, all the indications had been rejected. Regrets us in this story that the judicial branch of power should enjoy a remarkable reputation, but certain eminents have chosen this as a range of perceptions and accusations. But the point is that at the site of this event there were only three persons, and all three of them made their statements about what was happening at the time, wrote down, signed down, and behind them. But all else, of course, are political interpretations and comments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. I'm asking you to sign up. In doing so, I would point out that it is not the time to debate, but the time to explain the question of the question, the subject. An explanation of the vote on your behalf, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Of course, I will support this debate, but once again, because there is a thousand and one lie, it is necessary to say a thousand times: "The Minister has not done his tasks!" The law requires him to verify all the facts and circumstances. Not only did he not have conversations with constitutional judges and chief judges and prosecutors, he was so demeaning that he did not even have a conversation with those on the spot — let us be objective — the secretary and the prosecutor. He didn't do it either. Therefore, all the defending of the Minister is completely unnecessary. I mean, it's way out of line. Even on the Mandate-Election Commission, when we discussed the candidate, the opposition did not lose any pace and no will when the candidate presented two witnesses. On the contrary, I have also called on the coalition and the minister publicly, "Mr. Minister, let these people face it, be honest, face those who are against the candidate and those who are for the candidate." No questions asked. However, I stress that the Minister did not perform his tasks. This isn't the first time he hasn't done it. The Minister shall carry out this task in a very faithful and responsible manner, for example, in the case of the land book, which I will discuss below when the pockets, Mr Saiovic, are to be taken care of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u184	Comrade Gorenak, the minister can't answer you, and the controversy with him is out of place. Otherwise, the question is regarding the legal arrangements for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court — by legal arrangements for appointment, not by specific appointment. Voice explanation, Ivan Grill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u185	Thank you very much. I am also joining the view that the reply of Minister Zalar has not yet made clear what the question was meant for. Even all those procedures that he has cited as having been carried out are incredulous. I agree with those who say that the judicial branch of power should be valued or have a reputation in Slovenia among people, but what is done by appointing such a person to such a position will be even more distorted. It is not true that when this person was discussed, the opposition ran out of words and will to discuss it. It was a late hour after the whole day of the debate, and it was intended to move this debate into the late evening, at eleven o'clock or midnight, and it certainly did not make sense for them to convince themselves. Therefore, such a person who objected to Slovenian independence is not a suitable person who has been involved in concealing the greatest violations of human rights and who is now trying to deny it, in accordance with the law, who could occupy such an important position. And it would also be right before his appointment to hold such a debate in the National Assembly to clarify, clarify, whether the procedures have been carried out in accordance with the legislation and, on this basis, to decide and dispel all those doubts which are large in the Slovenian space. There will, of course, be a slightly more detailed debate on this and we will be able to reexamine whether such a question is in place and it would be right to discuss it. I will therefore, of course, vote in favour of this general debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u186	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda – the second is the draft law on amendments and additions to the Land Book Act, the regular procedure. We're moving on to a decision on the amendments. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 23. I would point out, however, that all the amendments tabled by the SDS Group are substantively linked. If this amendment is not adopted, the other amendments of the same proposer shall become irrelevant. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Of course, I will speak in full, because these amendments are connected. Look, I just got a call from a lady who says 28 cents I paid for the registration form. Our amendments are linked to this very matter. Why am I saying this? For a fundamental reason, it is now possible for any citizen to file an entry into the land book. Any citizen who has completed primary school can also write printed letters, you know, he is also able to do so, fill out the form, attach the relevant documents, go to the land book and say, "Please, enter my property in the land book." Then 12 euros in legal fees can also be done, says 12 euros and 28 cents. I'm talking about the lowest sum. What does the coalition propose, and what do our amendments propose – which way do our amendments go? The coalition, however, proposed electronics in the law. We support a hundred an hour, we start with that. The government has started this before us, so it's good to keep going. But we don't support that work, and here we've tabled amendments that say that an individual, an individual, is no longer capable of fulfilling this 28-cent form that I'm talking about. No, the law says that Slovenians are so stupid that they can't fulfill those few sentences, so the law sends them to lawyers and notaries. First of all, the notaries, even the lawyers. Most Slovene municipalities were protested, including the Municipality of Ljubljana. The Association of Municipalities has protested, i.e. municipalities are not entitled to proposers, as if they do not know, with a bunch of lawyers, say in Ljubljana. No, no, no. The law leaves this to notaries and lawyers. This business will be carried out by about 300 people. Experts working on this have clearly calculated – between €10 million and €30 million. In fact, no one has any exact data, but take any number or EUR 10 or 30 million. Ladies and gentlemen, our amendments are going towards keeping this money in the pockets of Slovenian taxpayers. With the amendments, we want to achieve that this money remains our citizens. The law, which we will vote on below, is one that says, "let's excite the poor people 10 to 30 million and give them to a cartel called a legal cartel, a notary legal cartel or whatever". It is right to support these amendments, otherwise you are acting against these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u188	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 42. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This has also made the remaining amendments to Articles 39 and 54 irrelevant. That is why we have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We're moving to third reading. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Ambassadors, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u189	Thank you very much to all those I've convinced you of. In fact, the result was 38 for my proposal and 42 for my proposal. I'll be able to get a good look at it a little later. And it's possible [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u190	Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u191	Yeah, yeah. I'll take a look at your name, too. Of course, I also ask you to continue to support the fall of this law. In short, you vote against this law as one that is an anti-human law. There can't be anything but anti-human law. If he takes between €10 million and €30 million to Slovenians and Slovenes, to our citizens, and gives them to a few hundred people who are already more than rich, they are lawyers and notaries. So I urge you, like our parliamentary group, to cast this law, to vote against this law in short. We will vote against this law. You know, there is no problem, even in the opposition we can write or the ministry can write all those good articles and changes to the law, I mean electronics, and this law can also be passed at the December session or at the latest in January. But I ask you not to pull, for God's sake, out of pockets that are empty, where there is nothing, and you reach into these empty pockets. Who, for Christ's sake? Please, even those few missing votes, let us cast this law, adopt a law that will benefit our people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Anyone else? So I'm asking you to sign up. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Miran Potč. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u193	Thank you very much. It would be good to say that we have discussed the issue of law in the land book thoroughly and on many occasions on the basis of the working body. I will personally vote in favour of the law because I firmly believe that the claims about the law and the consequences of the law are unrealistic. Already today, anyone who wanted to submit a land book proposal had to have a notaryly certified document which he submitted. Even now, in order to verify the document with the notary, he had to pay the fees. The role fees are now changing down. The Minister of Justice has assured us that most fees, except for the lowest category, will be lower and lower than they would be under the applicable law. In addition, it is necessary to provide a notary role because only notaries are linked to the land book in such a way that applications can be made electronically. In order to keep the land book in electronic form, this National Assembly concluded on a proposal from the former Minister, five years ago, I think it is a circus. Since then, the land book should be kept and all the applications electronically designed. This cannot be done differently than on the proposal, as it is now prepared. And two more things to say. The entry into force of the Law on Application for the Prohibition of the Roles of Citizens will enter into force in 3 years. During that time, anything that the opposition falsely claims can be verified and ascertained whether it is true, and within 3 years it will also enter into force provides that the municipalities themselves are not able to file applications against what they have complained about and, at that time, can also form lawyers who have not only a state defender, but also a medo-Chinese lawyer. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u195	Good bye to all of you! Dearly beloved, I will vote against it, because it is rare that so many local communities, so many municipalities, would raise their voices against this law as it was in this case. Just from my district, the municipality of Cerklje from Gorenjska, more others, and you will not believe that the municipality of Jesenice, whose mayor sits in the ranks of the coalition. The arguments they listed no doubt hold true. Some were explained. Not at all. More. Some were not even tried to respond, nor did they listen to the proposals for solutions offered in the SDS. Why this is done, I don't know, but the fact is that it is too easy to interfere with the pockets of citizens and citizens who are already in trouble because of the poor economic situation, to which your government has also unselfishly helped with its frailty, its indecisiveness, its absence of measures. And now you have to put extra pressure on those people. And the argument which was presented a little earlier that only notaries can do this is not true, of course, because there is also an e-project of court equipment, and they could also bring this into court. That's what you're saying. It's just about giving someone an extra chance of making money at the expense of everyone else. I'll vote against that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I'm reopening the application. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Flower of Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u197	Thank you very much. I'm not supporting the Land Book Act. At first reading, we pointed to some traps. I agreed that digitisation was needed, but there were and there were certain concerns that led to the fact that it was simply too fast. In doing so, I point out that they have been running a dual system in neighbouring Austria for 10 years, both in the form of paperwork and in digitised form. They are obviously aware that there is a certain danger. And I think that the land book is one of the rare things that works well in this country is up to date, it's set up as it should be. I'm afraid these changes will cause problems, and they're underthinking. I do not agree with the withdrawal of local custody authority. At the same time, I find it very difficult to convince me that the storage which the notaries will have from now on will be truly free of charge for citizens. The warnings that come from the Notary species are also serious. The warnings that come from the people who do so so far in the courts are also serious, and many have been received. And that's why this rush doesn't convince me. And I think it can cause a lot of damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote Matjaž Zanoškar. [[He's quitting.]] Explanation of Brad Pecan's voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u199	Thank you very much. It all shows that in the National Assembly some people do not know what amendments we adopted in the second reading of this law. In fact, notaries are no longer in charge of archiving, storing these documents, but are considered to be a scanned document that comes into the land book, as the original and notary does not keep the documents anymore, but to hand them over to the party when the land register entry is legally executed. It's either rejected or accepted, or whatever, that we won't be complicated. There's something else I'd like to say. That not only on the Internal Policy Committee, where I am not present, but here in this Chamber of the National Assembly we have listened at least twice to a very reasoned explanation of why we are adopting this law. This law, which began in the preceding term, which carried out certain activities in the past mandate of the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Court, which is responsible for digitising all judicial proceedings, not only the land book, which today led to this digitisation being fully carried out. And I don't understand that the person who comes to the notary to verify the contract or to make a notary record of the contract, and then scans it on the face of the city and sends it to the land book, says that this person doesn't have to take the notary contract into his hands, get in the car, on the bus or train, go to the land book and then there that entry to do it, but instead does it do it not for the smaller money he has paid. For a little bit of money. And the same applies to congregations. Of course, I will vote for the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u200	Thank you. An explanation for Ivan Grill's voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The characteristic of the Ministry of Justice in this mandate is that every law it introduces into the procedure and when it is adopted means that citizens and citizens must be held by their pockets because they are further embroidered by the euro. This marriage is one of these, too. It is true that in this law there are also some solutions that have already been set up in the previous mandate, namely electronicity, to simplify certain procedures and, above all, to make them faster. However, there were so many additional ideas about how to raise more money for people to be completely depraved. Here to explain that this will be cheaper for our consumers, it simply does not. This is exactly the same when we remember five years ago removing the so - called mandatory stickers. At that time, too, the shouting and shouting, as to the extent of such damage, became clear that the stickers at the time were exclusively for the benefit of some of the chosen individuals. And also this law now confers in particular the privileges and benefits there, as we have heard, 200 to 300 lawyers and notaries who will thus be able to serve unjustifiably. Why prevent all those who are qualified to provide such services? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u202	I ask for peace and attention in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u203	So many critics from the congregations, professions, real estate intermediaries, and not least those who get to know this matter professionally, clearly show that this law is certainly a step backwards, and it would be best to refuse this law to roll heads together and to find only those solutions that will take a step forward in some truly timely time. That is why, of course, I will vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Plus, it's an extra one. It must be against this law, absolutely for the reasons I have said and for the following. See, the community of municipalities was against, and the individual mayors, as Members, were against, but we are still talking and deceiving our people when we are talking about that notaries already have these documents in their hands. Yes, of course they do, because they can verify contracts. But e-mailing the court and talking about us starting this project – it won't hold. This electronics project has already begun with the previous government and has continued with us. And today it continues. We welcome it. There's no problem. The courts have to go ahead with electronics. But look, why are we against this law? Since the coalition has attached itself to this clever and good work, which is called electronicizing the earth’s book — what? A cat in a frog called "we're going to pull 10 to 30 million euros and give it to lawyers and notaries." See, that's the problem! And don't say it's not true. There's something else. None of the notaries – of course if you only take the tariff that is now prescribed, then it will be cheaper – do you think that the notary will do it for free to scan it for free to send it for free?Oh, my God! No way, because the notaries aren't from flies and they're probably not paid by the luft or what I know. They'll charge manipulative costs, such costs, those costs, those costs. Normally, they're gonna charge them, besides that court fee that's official for, you know, like grabbing rat poison. That's not true. Don't paint people. Let's throw this law away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Jakob the Presecnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u207	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Again, this is what I said the last time in the debate – a law that is good in most articles after content, but has some provisions that like to appear in most laws that are simply not acceptable. Of course, it is not about who can do this work, especially how safe the procedure is. This procedure is certainly sensitive and must therefore be 100 % safe. And I'm not sure that all this digitisation of the process will really bring about an extremely secure process. The second problem that comes to me in this regard is, to some extent, I understand. In a few laws in the previous period, i.e. in the last few years, we have taken away some monopolistic powers, especially those of notaries, and I understand that some monopolistic powers should be given back, but another, if we have taken some things. Last time I heard some information in the debate that if only notaries did this, on average they would earn an extra 20 000 in these jobs, I think this number was mentioned, 20,000 euros per year. That's what they say, some change, 20 grand a year gets every notary on average. I think a lot of our workers, a lot of our employees, would be happy if they got, not extra, but if they got 20 thousand euros a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u208	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 36. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda – the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Fees, the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 55 votes against 27. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item on the agenda – the proposal for a resolution on amendments and amendments to the Resolution on the National Programme for Culture 2008-2011 is under consideration. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the motion for a resolution, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the motion for a resolution. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 81 votes against none. [[The vote was 81.]] [[No one.]] I note that the resolution has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda – the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Working Time and Compulsory Rest of Mobile Workers and on recording equipment in road transport, reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party Branko Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u209	Thank you so much for saying that. At the time of the presentation of our position, we said that we would vote against such content. A decision of the Constitutional Court found non-compliance with the law. The proposal for amendments continues and is not being implemented. In fact, it is about the introduction of a directive requiring that a target group of workers be placed in the same position in 2007, which of course did not happen to all mobile workers equally. This was not the case with the harmonisation of European legislation for those workers who are driving longer distances, while mobile workers, that is to say, bus drivers who drive less than 50 kilometres, did not. That is why, of course, it was also opposed by the driver's union, which on many occasions also asked the proposer to eliminate this disharmony, which did not happen. If this area is properly regulated for almost all workers in the Republic of Slovenia, then workers in line passenger transport of less than 50 kilometres would not be special and deprived of what they are doing with the content of labour law, i.e. the Labour Relations Act. As we have predicted, we will vote against such a law in the parliamentary group by reason of not eliminating those constitutional categories which are not aligned with the requirement that these imbalances be eliminated. They remain and we will therefore vote against it in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u210	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 52 votes against 27. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda – third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations Dars d. d., from credits and issued debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, amounting to EUR 297,811 million under the regular procedure Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 34. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude the agenda. Continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda – third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of the regular procedure Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 84 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 27. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda – the first consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, Dr. Peter Verlich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u211	Thank you very much. In our parliamentary group, of course, we will support the proposal to conclude that the law is suitable for further consideration, as we are also proposing amendments to the law. Let me explain why. Firstly, because of the proposed amendment, we align the term for intermediate and suburban passenger transport, which greatly improves the quality and accessibility of public passenger transport, in particular in the two largest cities: Ljubljana and Maribor, where 80 % of all public passenger transport is carried out. With this equation, we will allow many municipal municipalities to receive quality transport to the capital and to the second largest capital, which is actually expanding urban passenger transport for the benefit of the wider regions of Ljubljana and Maribor. Secondly, this law allows for co-financing from the State budget and other resources. In fact, if urban transport is to become more attractive to passengers to use it, it must, of course, be affordable. This option, of course, enables, for the first time, the city budget and the budgets of the municipal municipalities to make their income easier, is less expenditure, and for the passengers the right price. And thirdly, we are eliminating the discrimination that has recently taken place in Ljubljana, that, for example, the students who live in Ljubljana were, of course, in a better position than those who drive from the suburbs, because they were subject to a lower price and for the rest a higher price. When it is necessary to obtain the consent of the Directorate before such changes take place, this discrimination shall be abolished. All the Members we discussed in this Chamber, coalition and, of course, we also agreed that the law is good. There was no argument to speak in favour of not supporting it. The law is good and, therefore, I propose that we support it, of course. For the government's only argument, which was why it does not support, is that it is preparing some law on integrated public passenger transport, which we are waiting for for two years. Let's back it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf. Anyone else? Alenka Jeraj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u213	Thank you. I will, of course, support our proposal for a law. I am sorry that the proposaler is not correct again because we are proposing in the SDS, obviously the law has already been condemned in advance to not being adopted. What bothers is that the government again one year after it has already said that it cannot accept such a law because we do not have the provinces in place — of course it has done nothing — and now it has the same excuse, we cannot adopt the law because we do not have the provinces. Although it is precisely the greatest coalition party that is to blame for not having them and as far as we have been with them in the previous term, it is likely that we will not be again soon, because in fact there is absolutely nothing going on in this area. Nevertheless, we may have convinced someone that if we supported it, we would at least give them the opportunity to talk about these things on the Transport Committee and elsewhere. Perhaps we could come up with a common solution, which would be a very important contribution to all those municipalities that are at the border with the municipalities, especially Ljubljana. Instead of spending money and destroying cultural heritage by building a garage, we would rather extend the routes of urban transport and reduce urban traffic. This is how all European cities do it, except Ljubljana. There is always something special here and on the tail, despite the fact that Ljubljanans are therefore sentenced to very bad air, to a significantly worse environment. But we'll all end up paying some more fines for it. But apparently, that doesn't bother some. I will vote in favour of the law, I propose that others vote in this way, and that we discuss in the Committee on Transport how we can arrange transport in the municipalities of the city.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u214	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 46. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 13th paragraph of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Protocol amending the Protocol on the Transitional arrangements annexed to the Treaty on European Union, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty establishing the European Atomic Energy Community. As no amendment was adopted by the parent labour body during the second hearing, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, this is at the confirmation of the official revised text of the Act on Insurance, the Official Cleaner Text of the Law on Excise and the Official Cleaner Text of the Banking Act. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The official text of the Insurance Act is confirmed. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 78 votes against none. [[The vote was 78.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The revised text of the Law on excise duty is confirmed. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the Banking Act." We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against none. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text of that law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. First of all, we will consider the proposal for a decision appointing the President and members of the Management Board of the Fund to finance the decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jože Tanko. [[He won't.]] The position of the LDS Group will not be presented. Do Members want to discuss this? He's registered to a mag. Andrej Vizjak. He wants to discuss it? Please. Get Dushan Kumer ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u215	Your Honor! We're talking about a very important trust fund, a nuclear decommissioning facility. So this fund was the target of a number of appetites, especially a number of mentioned parties, who are doing this so-called orange tsunami in Slovenian energy. Many of the working bodies of this Parliament have been subjected to ambitions to replace the director of the nuclear decommissioning fund, mainly due to appetites following the management of this fund, which manages about 150 million euros. Since this could not be achieved, she was discredited by the former chairman of the board of directors, the top nuclear expert, Mrs Romana Jordan Cizelj, a European MEP. More has happened, and a new board of directors has been set up, which was actually set up by this coalition. This board also received a mandate from the orange energy cabinet, the Directorate, following the resignation of the Director of the Nuclear Decommissioning Fund and also from this newly appointed committee, as it was simply said that this was one of the biggest nonsensees. Moreover, the former Director’s mandate had expired and his vacant seat had been applied for by candidates who had been assessed by the newly appointed Management Board not to be appropriate, so he proposed to the Government the conduct of the current or the then repeatedly demolished Director of the Nuclear Decommissioning Fund. The Government has rejected the proposal of its Management Board and has unlawfully appointed a acting officer who has otherwise failed to meet the conditions for the management of this Fund. We are now setting up a new-old or old-new fund management board, which has exceeded, thank God, this personnel games by Mr Kopač and probably also by Mr Golobic in the background. I think that this board will have to protect primarily the dedicated spending of the fund's money, so that it will be primarily for the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant and not for the decommissioning of the Government, and that it will be primarily for the prudent financing of the radioactive waste warehouse, even though not everything that could be done is happening there. Your Honor, I will personally support this proposal. However, I believe that the creators of this orange personnel tsunami will make sure that the government delegate in this board of directors is right and will continue to stumble and threaten the proper functioning of this fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I'm afraid I can't discuss it. Maybe you convinced me not to vote in favour of this decision. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the Management Committee of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant for President Dimitrij Marjanović and Mag. Gregor Christmas and Mary Kelemina. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u217	Thank you so much for saying that. In our Group of Members, we agree that this is an important fund; it is already its size that can convince us to do so. It is therefore particularly important that people who are qualified to do so sit in the bodies of this Fund. It may seem to someone or his subconscious to say that it is a fund to decommission the government, and the former governing bodies have ruled it as well. We know that he produced EUR 40 million in one year and that his investments went back to such and different moves, which in one way or another ended badly in the financial markets. Therefore, it would be imperative for us to be occupied by competent people, and it is not necessarily the holders of any client cards. None of the proposed three members are a member of our party. Among these three suggestions, for example, is a seamstress. We sincerely hope that she, as a hobby, has some other knowledge that she will be able to manage this fund. Just as you have already found out, Mr President, it will be very difficult to support this proposal in the Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u218	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We move on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sport Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, by which a member of the Council of Foundations for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia, Jaroslav Kalan, is dismissed under number 7, and the member is appointed mag. Andraž Kopach. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[in favour of 79 votes in favour.]] [[Against no one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Before I go any further, I'm asking for your agreement, because it's about the composition of one of the investigative groups, that I'm not actually reading the entire investigative group, but just the beginning. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the composition of the appointment of a President, a Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Investigative Commission of the National Assembly to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions due to the suspicion of abuse of the official position of the holders of public functions in order to influence the outcome of the elections in the 2008 National Assembly, and in relation to Patrio. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 79 votes against none. [[The vote was 79.]] [[Against no one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the hearing of the District Court Notice in Ljubljana, Criminal Section, concerning the indictment against the MP of the National Assembly. For consideration of the meeting, the District Court in Ljubljana, the Penal Department, submitted the notice. The notification was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which submitted a report to the assembly by means of a proposal for a decision. We're moving on to decision-making. The mandate-holder commission shall propose to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: National Assembly, pursuant to Article 83(3) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 22 of the Law on Members, concerning the notification of the District Court in Ljubljana, Section of Criminal Procedure, Article IV K59798/2010 of 11. Ten. 2010 following an indictment lodged by KT0554/06 against the Member of the National Assembly of the Victory of Jelinčič Trimenite for the crime of inciting hatred, discord and intolerance based on the violation of the principles of equality under Article 300(1) of the Penal Code, does not recognise the immunity of the Member of the National Assembly to the Victory of Jelinčič Trimenite and allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. On the basis of Article 267 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 2. [[in favour of 73 votes in favour.]] [[Against 2]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Decision establishing the termination of the post of Vice-President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. Mr Andrej Magajna stepped down from the SD Group of Members of the Parliament and therefore informed the National Assembly, on the basis of Articles 200, 201 and 112 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, of the following decision: It is to be ascertained that Mr Andrej Magajna has ceased to be a member of the Group of Social Democrats. In order to end the membership of the Group of Social Democrats, Andrei Magajni will cease his post as Vice-President of the Commission for Petitions and for human rights and equal opportunities. And secondly, the Member shall cease to function on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. I thank Andre Magajna for the work done by the Vice-President of this Commission. We are moving on to the consideration of the Decision on the termination of the post of Vice-President of the Committee on the Economy. Member William Rezman’s status as a non-affiliated Member has been terminated and the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 200, 201 and 212 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has been informed of the following decision: It is to be ascertained that Member William Rezman has ceased the status of an unrelated Member. In order to terminate the status of an unrelated Member, Mr Rezman shall cease to serve as Vice-President of the Committee on the Economy. The Member shall cease to function on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. I thank him, too, for his work. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a Vice-President of the Committee on the Economy. The draft decision was submitted to the assembly by the Group of Non-Aligned Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the Vice-President of the Committee on the Economy Willi Rezman, the Group of Non-Aligned Members. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been taken and I wish Mr William Rezman a successful job. We are moving on to the consideration of the draft decision on the discharge of the President and the Vice-President and the appointment of the President and Vice-President of the Commission for National Communities. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Commission to the national communities for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision to resolve in the Commission for National Communities President Lázsló Göncz, Member of the Hungarian National Community, and Vice-President Roberto Battelli, Member of the Italian National Community, and is hereby appointed as President Roberto Battelli, Member of the Italian National Community and Vice-President Lázsló Göncz, Member of the Hungarian National Community. We're voting. The vote is under way. 82 Members and Members attended, 82 votes against none. [[The vote was 82.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing the President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to this item on the agenda, the SDS Group proposes to postpone the discussion and decision on this item to one of the next meetings of the Assembly under Article 74(1) of the Rules of Procedure. You received the proposal by letter dated 18 November 2010. Does the representative of the motioners want to speak? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u219	Thank you so much for saying that. Before deciding whether to take the time and reason to examine, reject or confirm any concerns raised against the candidate for President of the High Court Masles. This is the case with the statements of Constitutional Judge Jan Zobc, certain Supreme Judges, other Judges and Lawyers, and against which Minister Zalar has also not provided any evidence. Or we will continue the carefree political, vehement and self-consolidating revolutionary practice of the procedures for the appointment of the Presidents of the Supreme Court, and this appointment will be carried out in a manner that preserves all suspicions and will be rendered in doubt in this case. If we follow this path, the future president of this court will fall to the Supreme Court alone and to the judiciary in full the dark shadows of impropriety. In this case, a lot of things are open. For example, there is no explanation of the candidate's attitude towards Slovenian independence, as some who shared court halls with Masleša were said to have been co-workers. There was no or no explanation regarding the sentence of the last death penalty in Slovenia, which candidate Maslesha said to the mentally injured person. There is also no explanation as to the cooperation of the candidate in the verification commissions, which carried out inspections of the murdered refugees on the green or at the most open border in Eastern Europe. Human rights have been severely violated in cases of illegal beatings, as refugees have received a fatal border shot to the forehead or other vital parts of the body instead of cash or short prison sentences for the offence. In these proceedings and proceedings, the Minister made an excuse for the entries he was supposed to receive for a specific case in the Court’s archives. He said the whole date, the hour of departure, the hour of arrival. However, he did not say what was written in these records. He also did not say what procedures candidate Maslesha initiated as a judge or as a citizen. It's a perfect theme. The Minister did not make an effort to find materials or archives in other institutions, not at home, not abroad or in civilian or military archives. The President of the Government to whom the letter was addressed did not respond, even more than once, he showed genuine ignorance even in fundamental decisions such as this. We therefore propose that you support our proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the representative of the Committee on Mandate and Elections, who is the proposer of the decision? He doesn't want to. Would you like a word from the government? He doesn't want to. They want the word Slow Dr. Gorenak, according to the script. [[...]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, then Silven Majhenič on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u221	Thank you very much. You expect me to make a good call, Mr. President. Look, I've mentioned earlier that it is necessary, more than necessary, for the interests of this country, to postpone this agenda today. Nothing can happen within a month and nothing can happen within a period of two months of disaster for this country, more than what we will do if we place this item on the agenda and confirm the candidate. The Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia was in the middle of the 1990s without a president and had a temporary president. The Supreme Court must be headed by a man over whom there is not even the slightest cloud, compared to the state of time at the best time in the summer. It's an ideal fact. It is our duty, however, to give the minister a duty because he has not done his duties, to impose and to say, "Mr. Minister, take the bag home, do what the law requires of you, and come back!" We are the ones who have appointed the Minister, and we are the ones who can assign him this task. Nothing can happen at this time. What's this all about? The minister briefly says I've done my homework. I've explained it before. I believe he listened to me, and I'm going to say this in addition to the time I have at my disposal. The candidate acted legally, says the minister, and so he writes, and we've heard that. No, the candidate didn't act legally. The candidate was an investigative judge. It means a great scholar of law, including the countries of Yugoslavia, within which Slovenia was then. The candidate had to know what it meant to cross the border illegally. The candidate must therefore be known that this means 30 days in prison and 3,000 former dinars in prison. The candidate went for a tour, saw a dead man. He knew it was against the law. I should and could know illegally, that is, legislation that has not been published anywhere, the rule of JLA. He didn't do anything, but he signed the record. See, that's what we need to know. Therefore, I ask you on behalf of the Group of Members, let us vote against and send the Minister home and have him perform the task again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Any other representatives of the parliamentary groups? Jakob Preseknik, the Group of the Slovenian People's Party and then Franco Juri, Zares.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u223	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary! Although I think that Mr Minister did his job correctly, he proposed earlier, May or April, or at some point, the candidate, but I would say, with a questionable opinion on the suitability of the candidate at the time. I think that the question of the suitability of the current candidate is significantly more than it was for some of them at the time, so I think it is necessary to take time. I am sure that the proposaler must also reconsider. We will therefore support the proposal in the Slovenian People's Party's Group to withdraw this item from today's meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u224	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by Franco Juri on behalf of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u225	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. We will not support this proposal, as this would mean that the policy takes an absolute decision in the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court. Get your hands off the court. And if we are now dealing with whether or not we are withdrawing from the agenda, where there is no doubt that this is a legitimate process, then we will once again prove what no one would want this story to become a mere subject of political treatment. That's why we think we've reached a point where retreat doesn't make sense. A lot of arguments and evidence were given that it was a construct, in fact a construct, that it was an attempt to prove something on the basis of untruths and we see no point in withdrawing this point today from the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a postponement. We're moving on to decision-making. We decide on the motion to postpone that case. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the proposal for a postponement has not been adopted. As the proposal for a postponement has not been adopted, we are moving on to a case. On the basis of Article 62(1) of the Law on the Courts of Justice, the Minister of Justice, Aleš Zalar, proposed that Branka Masles, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, be appointed President of the Supreme Court of Slovenia for six years. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Justice Minister Aleš Zalar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u227	Dear Mr President, honourable Members, honourable Members! According to our constitution, the Supreme Court is the highest court in the country. In every legal country, including Slovenia, the highest court in the country in the resolution of specific legal disputes definitively states what the law says and what is right. The functioning of the Supreme Court is therefore crucial for maintaining and strengthening public confidence in law. In addition, the Supreme Court and its President, each time, have significant powers or powers in relation to all courts and judges in the country. The management of the Supreme Court is particularly in a situation, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u228	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u229	when the level of confidence in the institutions of the justice system does not seem to be as high as they would like, the more difficult and responsible task. [[...]] The candidate for the President of the Supreme Court, Supreme Judge Branko Maslesha, is ready to take over this task. On the basis of the invitation to tender only, this function is sought. He was appointed supreme judge by the National Assembly for a good ten years, and in 2006 he was appointed by the Council of Justice for his superior professional qualifications to the highest possible judicial position, namely the Supreme Judge of the Court of Justice. In 2009, all the judges of the Supreme Court elected him as a member of the Council of Justice. The members of the newly elected Council of Justice then elected him President of the Council of Justice. So Maslesha has enjoyed broad confidence and support both in the Supreme Court and in the judiciary and in the legal profession for many years. This support was also reinstated by the candidate for the President of the Supreme Court in this nomination procedure for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court. Support or a positive opinion was given to his candidacy by the ordinary meeting of the Supreme Court, on the basis of the vote of all Supreme Judges, as well as the Council of Justice; the Council of Justice also explained its opinion. In doing so, I would like to recall that five members of the Council of Justice elected from among the distinguished legal experts this National Assembly and that a positive opinion of the Council was signed by the Vice-President of this body, the distinguished legal expert, Dr Miro Cerar. The two expert bodies, both the ordinary meeting of the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice, took their decision after they also took note of some concerns about the eligibility of the candidate. Let me recall that the Constitutional Court had already decided in 1997 that ratio legis was an arrangement whereby its opinion on the candidate for the President of the Supreme Court was given by the ordinary sitting and the Council of Justice precisely in that the selection process of the candidate for president would use a purely objective legal criterion and would not prevail over political considerations rather than a reasoned assessment of the fulfilment of those criteria. Before I took my decision to propose Judge Masleša to serve as President of the Court, I found with the evidence that I am summarizing in the explanation of the written proposal the facts which, beyond any reasonable doubt, confirm that Branko Masleš's personal and professional history is irrefutable. It turned out that, among other things, on 7 July 1984, according to the regulations in force at that time, he performed the role of examining magistrate, who inspected the scene of the alleged crime, to draw up a record of that examination and thus fully discharge his current legal duties. These duties are no different from those of investigative judges today. Supreme Judge Branko Maslesha meets all the formal conditions and legal criteria for appointment. With his dedicated work so far, as well as with the proposed programme for the administration of the Supreme Court, he has demonstrated convincingly the ability to carry out the functions of management. I hope that, honourable Members, he has also convinced you by his appearance before the relevant working bodies of the National Assembly, and in particular by virtue of the dignified attitude he has shown in this candidacy process, irrespective of some unbiased and unworthy statements he has listened to on his own account. The trial in the state of law is a promise, a promise of impartiality. Branko Maslesha has never broken it, and I believe that, as President of the Supreme Court, he will be eligible to run this court. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u230	Thank you very much. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body which submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal to appoint Mr Branko Masleš as President of the Supreme Court. The procedure for appointment has been legally implemented and the proposal has been examined comprehensively. After the adoption of the candidacy, the judges of the Supreme Court at the general meeting and the Council of Justice declared it. At the time of the examination of the candidacy, Mr Maslesa gave answers to all the questions, including an explanation of the conduct that was considered to be a reason for the inappropriateness of the application, in the previous procedure and also at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. Even in the National Assembly, we have considered substantive objections to appointment more than thoroughly, with clear answers to all the charges. We have considered them even for the third time, this time even more thorough than twice before we first decided to elect Mr Masleš to serve as a judicial officer with a secret mandate and later appointed him supreme judge. Each time, the debate showed that no findings were warranted. The candidate, the Minister of Justice as a candidate, and the candidates' colleagues at the time of the sighting of the murdered refugee across the Yugoslav-Italian border, especially the latest letter from the former President of the Supreme Court of Testen, have rejected them convincingly and argumentably. It's not about any of the candidate's misdemeanors. These are false accusations related to events 20 years ago and over, only a court, not a National Assembly, could decide on the guilt. And this blame 20 years ago is being laid today, while those who put it today did not know it 20 years ago. Moreover, even from the legal circles of the assessment that only a court could drop the charges, not the other way around, so that only a court could decide on the guilt and prove the wrong conduct. We do not accept the logic and practice of the Group of Social Democrats in order to extend the application and organise a political hearing, a candidate and a candidate, and this is the Minister of Justice, but these half-truths and insulting accusations must be rejected. When it comes to false accusations and unproven accusations, this is often not even possible, since these accusations are made day after day and cannot be rejected. We do not simply reject such conduct; we consider it irresponsible and knowingly harmful to justice and the rule of law. It is not possible to maintain the reputation and trust of the institution of authority along such a path. That's not even what the radical part of the opposition wants. With the applicant's accusations, it only provides room for further charges and mistrust in any judicial decision, especially if these decisions are linked to candidates who are members of their party. It is our responsibility to clearly point to these objectives and to something else, now immediately before the appointment and after all false accusations have been rejected in the proceedings, it is proposed to reject the proposal and a different legislative solution for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court. Even if we agree that the procedure is not good, we cannot agree to an argument in order to stop unnecessary politicisation. The opposition's behaviour so far has convinced us that a fruitless debate will also be opened on these issues, with the aim of being appointed by the President of the Court only with the opposition's consent. We would therefore point out once again that before the end, the lawfully managed procedure would be extremely irresponsible, not only to the judiciary, but also to the candidate who has cooperated correctly at all stages of the proceedings, who will tolerate all the insults, meet all the requirements and submit all the evidence. We cannot agree to such behaviours, so we want to close the process almost complete, which is also the responsibility of the National Assembly, and then, if so agreed, we will initiate a process of amending the law. As in the previous stages, we will also support the candidate this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u232	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u233	Thank you very much. In an elementary European country, the average legal development, something that is now happening in the National Assembly could never have happened. In the SDS, of course, we will absolutely oppose this candidate, i.e. the proposal. Time doesn't allow me to tell you everything I want to, but... On 25 January 2000, Ambassador Janša, Mr Maslesha, was signed under a record that confirmed the death of at least one of the refugees who had been shot by 1990. Ambassador Lavrinc: "Not only are you lying, Mr. Janša, you are a master of insinuation." A candidate a few days ago in the National Assembly, before the commission: "I was an investigative judge. I was on the lookout for one of those murdered fugitives. The body was 200 meters in Italy, I signed the record." So who's the liar from 2000? Mr. Lavrinc, proven. Procedure. The Council of Justice, which decided on these matters, gave its opinion. This was also done by a general meeting of the Supreme Court. The opinion for the Minister is not binding. That's clear. The minister knows that. But what did the general meeting of the Supreme Judges say? I have to touch this organ because it's one of the most important things in the judiciary. The general meeting said, "The candidate is suitable for the President of the Supreme Court." One sentence, take a look. Later they said, "He answered all the questions in this regard in an argument." There's no explanation. The judiciary is doing the same thing. Last week we heard on Friday, this procedure was conducted most transparently, and the candidate argued that he rejected all the evidence. Really? That's what he said, I'll name him, the orthodox advocate of the past. Some facts that remain unanswered and tasks that the Minister has not performed. The illegal border crossing was a felony, 300 dinars, back then, and 30 days in prison. That's what the law said. And the army had in the Rule of Service border units, which was not published, written, "stop, stop, I'll shoot," and so on. So it wasn't the law, but it was the internal rule of the Yugoslav People's Army. Facts. The candidate was a judge of the ordinary court. The candidate knew the laws and knew what the laws said. Apparently, he also knew what the secret rule of the rules of service of border units said. If the candidate went on a tour and signed the minutes, he had to know because he saw a dead man go on murder. Did he wonder what it was now? No, the case was dropped by JLA. Well, he had to know. But this tour is definitely illegal. It's an additional telegraph question. What happened to the body, because it was in Italy? Did they inform the Italian authorities? Were records found in Italy? Was the body possibly stolen and dragged by the feet gravely into the Yugoslav premises to be able to say that they had been inspected here? Actually, the candidate said the body was found on the Italian side. Did the army also shoot the candidate, or those who dragged the body to this side? Did you find a copy in the copier's court, Mr. Secretary? Did you find a copy of the copier's office? The D.A. said he was there. No, you weren't looking. Under those regulations, archival copies could also be in Belgrade, and we know that. Now Minister Zalar has failed to perform his duties because he has not confronted all the others involved in this procedure. I've already explained that. However, let us return to the Supreme Judges. With all my legal and ethical questions, I ask the High Judges the following questions, except for two. The candidate is reasoned, in your opinion, ladies and gentlemen, you did not answer the question, ladies and gentlemen, Supreme Judges, a simple little man would say, "This is a great mess." Your successors will say, "We are ashamed of our predecessors." In the SDS we will say: "Lords of the Supreme Judges, you have written another request to the people to send you in a constitutional and legal way into the history of the Slovenian people from where you are now." The orthodox advocate of the past: "This procedure is conducted in the most transparent and lawful manner. The candidate responded to all the obvious arguments." It's you, Mr. Potch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u234	Thank you very much. I inform you that in the order of the debaters of this item on the agenda there is no written presentation of the position of the Zares Group, so I give the floor to Franc Yuri. So, the position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franco Juri. [[advertising from the hall]] That's how I write it in the script. That's what I found out now that I told you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u235	Thank you, Mr. President. We failed because of a technical error, but we applied in time. That's why we signed up. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u236	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u237	to say first that the Zares Group, the majority of Members of the Zares Group – at least 7 Members – will vote in favour of this appointment while the two Members have a separate opinion and will vote as they choose. [[...]] The fact is, as I mentioned earlier, that we are faced with an attempt to politicise a procedure that is supposed to ensure the functioning of the rule of law without the constant interference of party policy. This is probably not because of the opposition's fault, but because of the system's fault and the law, which allows for an opinion and also a vote on the appointment of Supreme Judges to the National Assembly. This is a unique thing, because in Europe, democracy prevails, where the border between the judiciary and the legislative branch of power is clearly known. But since we are already here, it is important to say that all those who participated in the debates in the working committees in the competent committees found that all convictions at Mr Masleš's expense were, in particular, an expression of some desire to prove the inappropriateness of the coalition. After all, Mr Maslesha was only a new victim of polarisation, an ideological struggle that takes place in the National Assembly. Regrettably, the opponents of the appointment served mainly on allegations, unproven and unproven statements, which were also denied by other witnesses, and in essence raised the issue, the ethical issue, the former brutal functioning of the Yugoslav army and the former codex, which also provided for the death penalty. Of course, this proved that today’s most zealous prosecutors did nothing to improve the situation. And some of us spoke for those. In the 1980s, we signed petitions and exposed ourselves to abolishing the death penalty and also to abolish JLA's right to claim shooting refugees at the border. Mr Maslesha – and this was proved and justified – then acted in accordance with his powers, did not exceed these powers. As an on-call judge, who was also an investigative judge solely for his duties, he signed the minutes and handed them over to the competent authorities. There was also the prosecutor, there was the police, you would be more obliged to act on the next steps. As you know, this was also the responsibility of the military prosecutor's office, which just acted as it did. We know that the rule of law was quite an abstract concept for them. But we can't attribute all of this to the candidate we're deciding on today. If any deficiency or unfulfilled duty were to be attributed to him, we should also do so with his accusers, i.e. all the citizens and judges who knew and remained silent at the time. There is no reason, therefore, for us not to confirm today Mr Masles' appointment as President of the Supreme Court. In doing so, the Parliamentary Group would like to point out once again that there is a need to amend the legislation in terms of depoliticising the selection of supreme judges in the National Assembly and adapting to European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u238	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u239	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr. Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! I said earlier that on 21 May this year, at the 17th regular meeting of the National Assembly, we considered the proposal of Minister Zalar to elect Mr Mark Šorli as President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal in the National Assembly did not receive sufficient support, which in itself is not problematic at all. That was the vote. It is interesting, however, that the main reason why the biggest ruling party did not receive support – you did the same for them in other coalition parties – is that Mr. Šorli participated in the Senate of the Seven Judges, who, in 2004 in a request for the protection of legality due to justified legal error, handed down an acquittal judgment against one of the Members, or from the opposite sex, as you do. Thus, the key argument was, above all, how a judge in judicial proceedings decides against those who were politicians or Members of the opposite option. You said that you disagree with this court decision and that Mr. Schorli is therefore not suitable for the President of the Supreme Court. And that's how it happened. Mr Šorli did not receive enough votes of support from the coalition to be voted on. So he was the victim of an ideological battle. Now we have a new proposal for the President of the Supreme Court. It is interesting, however, that this time's findings against the candidate are not strong enough for the coalition to vote against. And these are the obviouss of a different species. Firstly, it is a moral and ethically controversial participation in the Chamber of Judges in the sentence of the last death penalty in our territory. Secondly, there is a proven moral-ethical involvement in the incident of the shooting of refugees at the former border of the SFRJ, as an investigative judge. No, but this time this is not enough reason for the proposed candidate to be denied support. Last time you said: "You know that at the time this judgment was very negative in the professional public, but now we are facing the task of the Supreme Court to ensure the uniform application of the law and to develop the law. The Supreme Court ensures equality of citizens before the law, while at the same time creating a case-law that allows lower courts to decide more quickly and qualitatively, which is essential for improving the efficiency of the judiciary." This is a quote from Mr Shorley's explanation of the opposition. What about this time the professional and layman public? This time, their criticism and the use of the facts is irrelevant. This is the culmination of political deliberation and politics. Say, "Dear coalition, this and this is good, because it's ours, the other facts don't matter." At least all citizens and citizens will know what your criteria are based on your human resources policy. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we expect a proposal for such a President of the Supreme Court, who will be professionally and morally indisputable for most citizens and citizens. We will therefore vote against today's proposal in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u240	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u241	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! We will support the candidate, who has been thoroughly vetted, at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Just as we have supported the candidate, Mr Shorley, who has never and never been ours, because we see the role of the Constitutional Court, unlike many speakers, quite differently. The Supreme Court, I forgive myself, is an independent branch of power and deserves its leader, just as we deserve our leader also Members and Members of the National Assembly, as the Government deserves, and we do not agree to any science that does only ongoing business, for quality, professional, visionary work, and the work of improvement is far too small. Mr. Secretary has done his job properly. He drew attention to the decisions of the General Court and to the opinion of the Council of Justice, and the proposal, which he then also verified, rightly proposed to Members and Members in their decision-making, was no more. Today, it has been heard from many mouths that our procedure is inadequate, weak, politicized. It is possible for them to establish and agree with them. The procedure will certainly need to be corrected in the same way as the candidate for the President of the Supreme Court is to be decided by the relevant judges and judges. But all those who criticize this today point to this decision with their finger and question it — the Council of Justice has decided, the general meeting of the Supreme Court has been decided. A policy that wants to interfere where it does not belong does not, of course, agree. And that's the problem. Previously, we've heard that some orthodox people are in the past. I agree, when the arguments run out, you have to scream "take the thief!" And to point with a finger, so that they may not look at themselves. Who from this past constantly draw on some situation, some divisions, some problems that this nation shared in 1945 and 1990, and try to share it today? Those who are orthodox in the past do not see and see these futures today. And that's their trauma, their pain and their problem. I must say, I was pleased, and for a few hours, there was a debate on the Commission's terms of reference. The candidate was there, he was ready to respond to everyone, he was standing up to the evidence, and he finally responded briefly, in a concise, professional way, with facts, with arguments, with witnesses, stated notarly certified statements and only facts. No political interpretation, no such or other thinking, and after he had finished his speech, there was silence in the great hall of Tomšič. There was no argument, there was no hero who could oppose him. And I must say that I am happy today, the candidate has been overtaken on all sides, no one has ever really shown him that, as a judge in his long years of operation, he has taken poor, controversial, unprofessional, biased, political, ideological decisions for citizens and citizens. No one at all. He was told that he had been in the wrong place after work, and then he did his work properly according to the evidence at his disposal. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Most of us served in the Yugoslav army, we were all guards, we were all guards. Some of you also wore the high rank of the previous army, some of you carried the flags at the head of the columns you led in AVNOJ. Have you asked yourself, colleagues and colleagues, is there anything your fault in this story that you're warming up today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u242	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members, after five minutes. The word is Tinker Bell. Get Eva Irgle ready. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u243	All in attendance, all in attendance! Today, at this point, we are primarily talking about reason. Sadly, this is not the case with the mind that is supposed to prevail in any decision. Increasingly, we find ourselves in this congregation faced with decisions that would be difficult to make reasonable. It is therefore necessary to ask whether it is a reasonable decision to propose the highest place in the judiciary and to insist, in public, on the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court, a man who does not even fulfil the conditions for being appointed President of the Supreme Court for a permanent term of office, as well as for the President of the Supreme Court. For the judge must fulfill both professional and human conditions. In a democratic country that must respect fundamental human rights, in particular the right to life, a judge cannot be one who has participated in the concealment or justification of the worst crime, which, as a faithful member of the regime at that time, by covering up the killings of civilians at the border, has done the service of the then JLA. Not only did he not raise his voice, he evidently understood such conduct as the only one acceptable. The killing of civilians at the border, respected, in particular of refugees from the east fleeing west for survival, by military authorities was also a violation of the law in the 1980s. Even the law of the then state. Such practices should also be prosecuted at that time, and those involved in concealing beatings should be prosecuted for abandonment of the obligation to act. The former non-democratic authorities did not do this, and neither is the current one. Moreover, the man carrying this burden is proposing to the highest position in the judiciary. What, then, does the present authority tell us by insisting on this inappropriate proposal? Firstly, that the highest position in the judiciary was not proposed and the most capable person with the best professional and human references was not selected for him, a man who would at least represent a patch to a bleeding legal state and slowly establish confidence in the independence and expertise of the judicial system. The proposed person is a person for whom, in previous procedures, a suitable "peer" field has been duly "peed". First, there was a candidate who didn't fit, then there was a candidate who was professionally and humanly appropriate, but in the most filthy way, he experienced rejection in the National Assembly. He was proposed and hypocritically politically chandelier, although the Minister of Justice already knew in advance that he would not be appointed. It's sad. And unworthy, especially for the minister. So the authorities did not act as they were expected — reasonable and responsible. And she didn't give everyone the same chance to compete in the same process as the one with the best professional and human references. After what we know so far, the proposed candidate has neither one nor the other. With the present power, it is only bound by the once-broken cord of the former totalitarian communist authority, which, once again as a tape of the former head of Udba Ertl's decoration, extends further across our young country. What does the Pahor government say to the democratic world with this proposal? To return, during the darkest period of its past, to the time when all the funds adequately covered by the competent authorities, of course including justice, were removed for the removal of disincentives. Now, of course, physical liquidation is no longer a reality, there are more sophisticated methods. For them, the wedding can only be tested and it is here to agree with the position of the LDS representative – we have no doubt that it is a tested staff. Candidate Branko Maslesha is one of the most tested personnel. Secondly, the current government is reviving democratic values with this proposal. Thirdly, what is really worrying in this case is the state of the spirit in justice, fear, except for the few individuals who have made themselves public and have already said in advance that because of this, I quote, "it will fall upon them," and that because they hoped to tell the truth, everyone else is silent. I don't understand why we wouldn't believe a constitutional judge who worked with a candidate in a court of law for years and who didn't allow his conscience to be quiet. This appointment, if any, means the final breakdown of the judicial system in our country. The system that should be most up-to-date is, of course, going to be "tempered". He's gonna have a great shot in the middle of the forehead. Unfortunately, however, in this case the victims will not be a system that needs to be updated and reformed, in which case, unfortunately, the victim will be a legal country.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u244	Thank you very much. The word is Eva Irgl, to prepare Dara Lavtišar Bebler.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u245	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm not going to support the appointment of Branko Masles as President of the Supreme Court. In fact, the reason is very simple. This is the person who has in recent weeks triggered violent reactions in the public, different responses from individuals from both the judiciary and politicians and other interested public. Despite the fact that he knew that this was a major dilemma and important issues, the Minister did not even try so hard to confront actors who had different beliefs and opinions that they could then reject the dilemmas and doubts. The goal was only one and still remains – to set Branka Masleša as President of the Supreme Court. As President of the Commission for Petitions and for Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, as soon as Minister Zalar's proposal came to the National Assembly, I called an urgent meeting of the Commission because I believe that a parliamentary body such as this Commission can and is obliged to respond and address issues relating to human rights and fundamental freedoms. However, we did not bring the committee's meetings to an end, and we were also unable to vote on the decision that the Mandate-Election Commission should reject the appointment of Branko Masles as President of the Supreme Court. I think it would have been for the best at that point, and I think it would have been for the best at that point. The controversy of this appointment and the doubts that are tangled and spread around Mr Masles' name are, in my opinion, so great that they require sober, wise and serious reflection, or a man who causes so many mixed feelings in the public fleeing Slovenia, we can really put on such an important and extremely sensitive position as the President of the Supreme Court. Even if Minister Zalar said in his introduction today, he says it is a function that requires all confidence in the public. By this act, by this appointment, even the first precondition is not fulfilled, Minister Zalar. You obviously don't care in the coalition what kind of relationship someone has with human life and the country that came about in those 20s. The important thing is to get rid of what you've done. After a long time, or for the first time at all, I agreed with my colleague Orazmovo, who said at the first part of the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission that she would not support the appointment of Branko Masleshe, because she believes that there must be a person in such a place who does not create so many negative feelings in the public and, of course, that this country does not deserve it. But in the following session, in the late hours of the night, of course, they made sure in the coalition that someone else from the party really had replaced this MP, that he then voted for Branka Masleša. This is such a sensitive function, which requires us to place a man in such a place who has greater confidence in the public, not blindly following the direction of Minister Zalar and President of the Government. Many representatives of the judiciary have spoken against the appointment of Masles. I will not list them again because I have too little time, but in the discussions in the coalition you immediately put them on the level of non-creditable people, just because they made a different statement about the Minister's proposal. You said they were saying something in mind. However, in order for Minister Zalar to make an effort to get relevant information from their side as well, that was too much. But that also tells us a great deal about the relationship that this coalition cultivates to work in justice. Also on the basis of these individual testimonys, it must be said that appointment is primarily from the point of view of human life. If they hold to the words they mentioned that Maslesha was thrilled that a man who had fled across the border in hopes of a better life had been shot in the forehead, that is the problem. And that's a big problem. If they also claim that it was markedly against the independence of Slovenia, this is also a major problem. But not only does this country not sanction it, it even rewards it, probably for loyalty before independence. Minister Zalar said that Mr Maslesha met all the formal conditions. Okay, there's nothing wrong with that, and I'm upset that there's obviously some strange criteria working in this country. For those who are either against independence or spend things abroad, as in the case of Patricia, are rewarded, and so on. In short, this appointment is not a political issue, but it is a question of the truth, a question of the most basic attitude towards human life and respect. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u246	Thank you very much. The word is Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Get Ivan Grill ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u247	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. After all that we have experienced so far, mainly by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group in the process of electing the President of the Supreme Court, I cannot be personally surprised. However, one wonders how far you are actually willing to go in the personal discredit of the candidate, who has proved irrefutable in his profession and profession and who has received considerable majority support for his candidacy both in the Council of Justice and in particular at the general meeting of the Supreme Court between his fellow residents and colleagues. This last one, you just have to attach it to it, is particularly difficult. We are convinced of this by some of the previous nominations, especially the undeniable fact that colleagues in the Supreme Court have always been very critical of each other, that they have always imposed very high demands and standards and that, unfortunately, even at this high level in the judiciary or in the judiciary, they are not entirely foreign actors of accommodation and accommodation. Well, about this one, it helped me explain and understand a lot of things. An extensive and reasoned letter from the former President of the Supreme Court, Mr Testen, to his colleagues on 11 October this year, which, thank God, found a way to the public. I regret, however, that in the SDS Group, although the former President of the Supreme Court has always been appreciated and supported, we, too, do not approve of his writing today and pretend to have been absent. It was, however, extensively, reasoned and equipped with appropriate quotations from the copies of the ordinary meetings of the Supreme Court. Yes, and some other judges, Major Generals JLA and others, who have been in memory of the words of enthusiasm that the judge and today the candidate for President of the Supreme Court, Mr Masleš, were supposed to have spoken to them at the time 26 or 27 years after the site of the event. And they can no longer remain silent on this, on behalf of human rights and fundamental freedoms. All due respect, if that were true. But for a really long time they endured in this silence, so long that it would be better if we kept silent about the transaction, especially because it turned out that their memory of these distant times was quite a bit of a mess, and because some others who were in addition to the tour said something else altogether. But they have the opportunity to come forward today when we witness orchestrated instigation and insulting accusations by the candidate in the National Assembly and the media, who are gravely encroaching on his dignity, to fight also on behalf of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Let me just say some of these. Maslesha is supposed to be involved in a special commission to verify the killings of those who illegally crossed the state border. "Masleša participated in a review of the execution of the refugee", we heard this today in the Second Morning Chronicle on Radio Slovenia. Or, "it is necessary to examine the legal situation and assess the functioning of civilian judges in the killings of civilians at the borders." I am very concerned that such perversion in our society could be accepted as acceptable and even more — normal. I want a standing President of the Supreme Court, just like he was before. And I'm sure, that's how I understood the position of the candidate at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, that if we, and I hope, elect him today, he'll have that attitude later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u248	Thank you very much. The word is Ivan Grill. Let's get the mags ready. Branko Grimes. Please, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Today is once again such a day when people will probably ask me how I can tolerate, when I am in the National Assembly, such a misdirection, such a falsification of some of the debaters. Today we are witnessing such events again. And I tell them it's hard.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u250	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u251	We're listening to some kind of falsification of an untruth, some kind of deception that far away doesn't reflect the actual state. There is a broad opinion that there was a petition against the death penalty among the signatories, but apparently such a one lacked courage or will when it was necessary to give more than just a signature to win Slovenia's independence. Many even objected to Slovenia's independence, to work against it, to be held in the background, in the shadows or in some safe remote place. And that's what they're going to be telling us today about democracy, what democracy is. They will today say that he may be a guardian, a democracy bearer, or they may be people who were part of the totalitarian system. You will find it difficult to convince me and I believe that the Slovenian public as well. Declaration or finding that judges should be elected or appointed in a completely different way than in Slovenia under the Constitution by law that they have different procedures in democratic countries. Dear coalition partners, we are light years from those democratic countries that have this tradition and that really can do it in one such fair way. With us, that word is only an abuse of democracy. And now to return to the debate that some of you are trying to show here that we opposed in the opposition without any arguments when we discussed Mr Masleša. None of those comments were answered. I personally read to Mr Masleša in Kwiaz that it was he who opposed the independence of Slovenia. And his answer was, what, that he never used the word "tap". I believe I didn't mention the word "beating." But those who were with him, who were his associates, I believe they were telling the truth if they made it public. I could count a lot of people myself, I remember 20, 21 years ago, when we were lonely and opposed to it, they have important positions and are now considered to be those advocates of independence that they were in the first lines. Probably, just on the wrong side. And here it was argued with witnesses who were not publicly certified that those statements were by constitutional judges, by other people who were then close to Mr Masleš that they were false. It was known that Mr Masles could serve as an investigating judge only after the prior consent of the Udba or those communist people who followed up on these matters. I am firmly convinced that that too, as well as that prosecutor, who, under a notary oath or certified signature, declared that Mr Maslesha was appalled or emotional. I hope he didn't have tears in his eyes. But this does not reflect to me any such defamations that might contradict the statements made by those constitutional judges or those who have made this matter public, and are willing to face such matters. And to now behead such an important human institution, which has doubts that Minister Zalar did not want to shake off, he did not want to find those evidence. The statement that the evidence was, however, unconvincing, all those made available. If he didn't want to find them where they could either throw them away or prove it, I believe they'd prove it, but that's not convincing enough. And you now have that responsibility that will cast a shadow, one new shadow in our democratic state of Slovenia, which in fact does not yet have that tradition that we can really call it. So I'm making this proposal. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u252	Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u253	Your Honor! The grave silence on our proposal to postpone the decision on Mr Maslesha as proposed for the head of the judiciary, which would be the only European norm at a given time. This grave silence has said more than a thousand words, you've wrapped yourself around it, both the government and the entire ruling coalition. Thus, with each debate now that you have finally spoken, you are merely adding new elements to the claim that the Pahor's government is opening its way to history, after it has failed in development, in the economy, in all other social issues, through Murphy's code, which today apparently seeks to add the new Murphy's Law of Personneling the Pahor government: "More than a proposal for an official in clear contradiction to the fundamental values of democratic Europe, there is a greater likelihood that Pahor's government will support it." Because in reality, it's about European values. Proposing a person for whom there are credible evidences that he has been negative about the independence of the state of Slovenia and even admits that he has participated at least once in the process of legal concealment of a murder at the western border, such a proposal is a government "tempering" of European values. "Treasure" was an expression in the former JLA, which meant to level the earth, to destroy it to the end. And I firmly believe that this is all you really want, even because of the symbolism that you have chosen. On 9 November, however, it was a big day, on 9 November, the entire democratic world with NATO and the European Union at the helm celebrates the fall of the Berlin Wall, a moment that has allowed and is the foundation of a united democratic Europe. In Slovenia there is a reason for the celebration of doubles, because on the same day we celebrated the twentieth anniversary of the moment when in Poland, with the decision of DEMOS for plebiscite, the flame of hope for Slovenia alone was lit. And on the eve of such a holiday, the government, Pahor's government, proposed to the head of the judicial branch a person for whom there are credible witnesses, that JLA would "temper" Slovenia, and that at some point she would even admire one of the murders. Once again, I warn you, cooperation in one of these disguises does not deny itself, because you need to be aware of what democratic constitutional law teaches. Legally existing, ladies and gentlemen who are now laughing is only that regulation which has been made public and JLA has acted as it has done on the basis of secret rules, the secret Official Journal, which has therefore been non-existent. And from the point of view of European values and European law, any cooperation in the attempt at legal concealment, transformation or even glorification is also an abuse of law and is controversial in terms of the protection of human rights. And so such a proposal means a greater joyous destruction of confidence in the judicial branch of power, it represents something that Europe simply cannot understand, just as it cannot understand the name of streets by dictators at the moment and cannot understand even less the award of distinction to someone who was the head of the secret political police, who has been condemned by both the European Parliament and the Council of Europe in the relevant declarations. The European norm, ladies and gentlemen, is a consistent condemnation of all violence and respect for victims. And your proposal is diametrically opposed to that. But it points to something else, the danger of new totalitarianism. Because people in Slovenia now have a moment to realize that even when customers who have roots in Slovenian spring, power and government, but yet another branch of power, obviously mostly ideological in the hands of the transition left, this is the judicial branch of power, because this proposal clearly confirms this, and you are not hiding it anymore, and that when all three branches of government are together, there is a great danger of abuse. For the old Slovenian wisdom says, "The land is corrupt!" And the absolute power corrupts absolutely.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u254	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Next, please prepare Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u255	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to some claims because I think they deserve to be enlightened by the facts. First, as regards the opinion of the general meeting of the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice. These two opinions are not formally binding, but the Constitutional Court has already expressly stated in 1997 that, in particular, the opinion of the general meeting of the Supreme Court has a particular weight for the applicant and that the proposer, namely the Minister of Justice, is in no way able to bypass it. This is not irrelevant for this procedure, given that I have two positive opinions as a proposal, this is the general meeting and the Council of Justice. The general meeting of the Council of Justice has adopted a decision to support candidate Masles to slightly correct what was initially said in relation to what this general meeting has concluded. Then it was said that candidate Maslesha was to carry out an illegal sightseeing of the shooting site. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not true. He played the legal role of the investigating judge on duty as a judge of the Court of First Instance in Cyprus at the time. He was then required by the applicable law on criminal proceedings in Article 154 to carry out such a review. The same provision, almost identical to that of our present law on criminal procedure, I think, in Article 164. Moreover, regardless of the apparent shooting of a soldier, that is, a military person, the then law on military courts in article 84, paragraph 1, stipulated that in such a case, those proceedings would be carried out by the judges of regular courts. So it was a perfectly legitimate task for this and other judges in all of Slovenia. And they all carried out their duties according to the law then in force. So it is not true that this inspection was illegal. I would like to point out that a tour of the site is carried out only if it is suspected that a crime has been committed. That's what happened back then. It was a suspicion of a crime committed. In this case alone, the investigating judge is going to be examined. Only in such a case shall the investigating judge be informed of the suspicion. And the investigating judge, when he does the examination, does nothing but find out the facts that he can detect there and give appropriate guidance, if necessary, to secure the evidence. And that's all. That's where his role ends. The investigating judge shall then submit this minutes of examination to the competent prosecutor. The prosecution is the one who decides whether or not to file appropriate prosecutions. It doesn't matter whether it's the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Military Prosecutor's Office, or whether it's our state's Attorney's Office today. The D.A. has this legitimate task, and it was there. If, then, in 1984, someone who might not have fulfilled his legal commission was merely a prosecutor’s attorney. Absolutely not an investigative judge. Therefore, all allegations that Maslesha's candidate had been concealing the crimes by going on tour were really inappropriate. I'd even call it teasing. There is no doubt that shooting at the border, then and until the moment Slovenia gained its independence, when it became a independent state, was illegal. This is precisely what the Supreme Court, which will judge Maslesha, hope to rule in 1997 on. So there's nothing at all. The fact is that there was no basis for the use of firearms against anyone who tried to cross the current Yugoslav, Italian or any other border between the Republic of Slovenia and the former Yugoslavia. Next. It was said that I should have obtained the appropriate evidence, but I didn't. That's not true. I have obtained all the evidence available to the Republic of Slovenia, including documents from the judicial archives of the competent courts. I also explained in the relevant working bodies of the National Assembly which documents are involved and what these documents contain. These documents make it very clear when this survey was carried out, how long it took, who went on this tour, where the survey took place, when the examining magistrate then returned. So all of this exists in our archives. What does not exist in our archives is itself a review record because, in accordance with the legislation of the day, the writings have deviated from the former military courts, which, as you know, our country, the Republic of Slovenia, of course, does not. Therefore, these documents are not accessible to Slovenia, and a number of other documents from the period of the former country related to the military courts and the prosecutions and other bodies are not available to Slovenia. As you know, all Slovenian governments have been trying to reach these archives so far, but this is a process in which foreign policy is involved and will obviously take some time to make progress, but please do not deceive people by claiming that we have not obtained the evidence available. Above all, I would like to draw attention to the fact that even if this review minutes were obtained, I am sure that there is nothing in which the facts relating to the performance of this view cannot be undermined, because it is only a perception of what has been seen on the spot. There will be no record of Judge Maslesha's reaction to what he saw. Not there alone, not later. You can never see it there in the record, in any record. It is therefore totally unrealistic to expect that this charter will now create a completely different and more objective performance. The previous proposal for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court was mentioned when I proposed candidate Mark Šorli. I say today that Marko Shorli would be a perfectly appropriate and suitable candidate, as I argued at the time. And if it's obvious to me right now that I've insisted on running for office for Mark Schorley, then I really don't know if I still understand what the Minister thinks they're doing here. I insisted, despite the fact that some parliamentary groups had announced in advance that they would be difficult to support, but I insisted because I thought he was a suitable candidate. As I believe in this case when it comes to candidate Masles. When it was said we didn't confront the actors. It's important to say now, to face up to what? We have no one to face about the sights because none of those who came forward were there. Well, there are problems here, and something has already been said about it. Yes, for the first time, some came forward after the proposal had already been tabled in the National Assembly, so I, as Minister, cannot see anything back here if any proceedings have been completed. In addition, this memory proved to be highly unreliable because apparently some remembered events that had not happened at all. Others claimed that after 26 years they remembered the event and thus found inner peace, but, honourable Members and Members, how can we check the words of the Constitutional Judge against the words of the Supreme Judge? With what? With a polygraph? Please! This is just about who you trust more, but it's your decision, not mine, because in the process that I led as Minister, that question didn't come up, not to me. When it comes to the question of the candidate and his attitude towards human life and the state, I ask you to read once again the magnetogram of his confession on the Mandate-Electorial Commission. I think he was convincing enough there, even when he was talking about the only country, even when he was talking about what his family had done for us to have this country today. I think it is wrong to try not only this candidate now, but all the Slovenian judges who performed this judicial function at a time when Slovenia was not yet an independent state, now connect with the Judgment. For it was said, only one who was checked or who had a prior consent to do so in the role of examining judge on the part of the Judgment was able to attend. This is really something I find hard to understand, especially because there's not a shred of evidence to point to. And also when it comes to the issue of the operation of the Yugoslav People's Army, which acted on the basis of the Secret Official Gazette. I have already stressed on the Commission's mandate that it was not a matter of applying a regulation which would have been published in the Official Journal. It's a regulation that wasn't published anywhere, but it was classified, it was classified as military secrecy. And that's why the Supreme Court defined him as a non-existent rule in 1997. And on this basis, ladies and gentlemen, the Republic of Slovenia is still paying today and will have to pay compensation for unlawful conduct, if any, for shooting a refugee at the border. This was also true in this particular case, which I mentioned and which was decided by the Supreme Court. It is difficult for me to agree that the trial is in the hands of the transitional left, because you, Members and Members of Parliament, must not forget that it is you who decide who becomes the judge. You're the one who's given the mandate, and that's what all the compositions of the National Assembly have done, no matter who was in power. I think that this is an unfair observation especially to all Slovenian judges and judges, whom I believe to be working to their full independence from politics and to decide impartially in the specific cases that come before them every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u256	Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor. Mr. Miran Potch is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Of course, I will vote against the Minister's proposal. Nevertheless, let me certainly say one more thing and explain for the tenth time if necessary: a sightseeing of the murder scene is not and cannot be lawful if there is no trial below, but a person is put in a coffin and buried. This cannot be legally neither in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia nor in the former Yugoslavia nor today. And no one can convince me of that. Don't talk about all the judges! I repeat, don't talk about all the judges! Most judges can work the most properly, many know personally, the most dignified and also in terms of the amount of work very much. We have a rotten head. This rotten head is the Supreme Court. And, of course, what the minister does, it's a very rotten thing. Not all of them are judges – of course not all judges, I am sorry that because of any possible lawsuit I can't say any more. However, something has to be said: the judges who were allowed to do so by the Yugoslav military’s counterintelligence service and no one else came to see these places. No other judge was able to take the stand, nor was any prosecutor able to do so, but only those who were allowed to do so. Understand, she chose them, there can be nothing else. Nothing. And the candidate was very suitable, given his father's work as a counterintelligence officer, at least that's what the media says. Of course, the prosecution should, said the minister – yes, but what has he done so far? Nothing. Don't talk to me about stupidity that the records have been revoked once and today the situation is perfectly clear. I signed 9 to 10 thousand criminal charges myself. They're all in court. But you'll find everything in the files of the police station I ran. It has to be exactly the same there. Any record has been withdrawn, has been waived, is sent to you in the annex, and clearly the copy must remain in court. But the minister only found the notebook. That's the problem. Look, the court ruled in 1997. Do you know what kind of manipulation or deception? Of course, it was a court of law, and it was also a judgment. And the court said, every dead person on the border was illegally killed and the state of Slovenia is obliged to pay compensation. Normal. Thank God. But the court said nothing about those who did or who verified it. That's not what she said. The time to say it too, I hope, Minister, is coming for you. Come in. Hence, it is completely different abroad. Ladies and gentlemen, it's different abroad. In 1999, Germany dealt with the last people who shot at those who went across the border and those who verified, and those party officials who did not shoot anything, signed nothing, but led this policy. Egon Krenz was sentenced to six years in prison in 1999. However, in our case, the person who, of course, signed these documents, at least in one case admits it himself, is put on top of the judiciary. Instead of doing something completely different. The candidate also had every opportunity to say, by law it is so, and so on, I will not go on tours like this, because they are not legal, and he did not. He didn't do it. I will vote against it, that is clear. In great hopes, I will say that all those judges, you know, who are working and working, are also the Maribors in the Satex case, which was two years old, and the Supreme Judges, according to my data, five years — and this is the rot — once raise up and say their voices and bring justice to where it belongs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u258	Mr. Miran Potch has the floor. Mr Jožef Jerovšek is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u259	Thank you very much. It is, of course, necessary to listen very closely to the statements made at this meeting, including those made by the opposition in question, in order to establish that there are many false statements or half-truths or false accusations and so forth in a very large part of your statements. Look, two, three of you, so I don't name people, they said that Mr Maslesha doesn't deserve to be a judge with a permanent term. For a permanent term of office, Judge Masles was elected 18. Ten. 1994. 36 Members and Members voted in favour, against 1 alone. At the time, I looked at the magnetograms, there has been no debate about the actions that are currently in place, and since then it has passed for his participation in the investigation or at the sight of ten years, or since his independence for four years. There was no one, since it didn't seem to be real at the time, there seemed to be no other interest in presenting Judge Masleša as unfit for election. But I stress how do you allow yourself, colleagues and colleagues, to express that you do not deserve a permanent mandate? On what grounds? Are we in the National Assembly who judge this without proper documents and without adequate evidence? You're talking about him being guilty of murder and being involved in the murder. These are such harsh accusations that I don't even understand that any of you can make them. This is because, as the Minister of Justice has said, he was sent on a regular basis and on duty to be on duty. Mr. Gorenak waved at me, I don't know whether to say good-bye, but surely if he waved, waved in his ingenuity to know everything. Mr. Gorenak, you don't know everything either. You can hate everything, you can blame everything, you can tell everyone the truth or the half-truths, you do it all the time, but you don't know everything. Just like you don't know that Kos was the one who gave Masleshi his consent to go as an investigative judge. Where did you get that information? From where? Tell him. That the piece you were working with gave you this information. What else am I trying to say? But that would also be on my part of insinuation, so I won't tell her. I just want to say that there's no point in accusing people without evidence and saying that you're right. Claim only because we do not consider those judges who today speak in favor of non-election to be credible. I accept that claim. But you too accept the claim that all those who today claim to be worthy of being because they have done nothing are unworthy of you without any particular evidence. Because you said that Mr Maslesha should not meet the conditions and be credible for election. Let us therefore give once fair consideration to criminal proposals, let us deal with the arguments and stop accusing each other of facts that do not exist or are half-invented. This time you are doing this on a specific proposal from Mr Masles, unfortunately, there could be someone else, but indeed, I firmly believe that you are doing harm to justice. Allegedly, he was part of a commission that verified the murders. That's a fat lie. This commission didn't verify the murders and there wasn't any homicide investigation. As an investigative judge, he was on the scene. Rumor has it he was involved in the execution. He wasn't involved in the execution, he was involved in the sightseeing of the scene where the murder took place. There are so many things that are not real, so I think it would be good for you to calm down a little bit, too, horses and false statements, so that you can understand and vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u260	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Mr Miro Friday will be the next debater.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Today is twice as symbolic. Rudolph Maistra's day, which fought to join a part of Slovenia, otherwise Slovenia would not be today, and I have just heard that the angry North Korean army attacked South Korea, the island, and when the angry armies go mad, then some people are strangely defined. At the time when the Yugoslav Army attacked Slovenia, there are also some testimonies of respectable constitutional and supreme judges about the then actions of the candidate proposed by Minister Zalar. Just to be perfectly clear. I asked the petitioner on the Commission's petitions about this and I also suggested to him that he apologized to the Slovenians in this regard, that he was wrong at the time, that he might have been raised so much that he was impressed by Yugoslavia and the Yugoslav army. But then I saw from the tape that he didn't answer those questions. Therefore, do not state here that he replied to all the questions in an reasoned manner. He avoided it. And once again, if he then defined himself in the opposite direction from Slovenia's right to self-determination, it is a personality that he could correct in later years by distanced himself from it. And here too, Mr Minister spoke very maliciously about the constitutional and supreme judges who made public statements that they were disproportionate and unworthy. I don't recall anyone questioning their credibility when we elected this Constitutional Judge and these Supreme Judges. If you had information that they had done anything wrong in life and you didn't tell them then you went by blackmailing them into confirming them. And that's your impeccable behavior. And why are you doing this? Because you're masters of division. You're interested, this option, that the Slovenians are divided. It is a technology of conquest and preservation of power. You're masters for this technology. And it is clear that the Slovenian public is divided, that the divided people are in justice, that the judges are divided by academically educated people, and that these divisions are supported by you. Look, I have a public statement from the law firm. I believe that these are also credible people who say: "Oppositions on the alleged statements of Supreme Judge Branko Masleš at the time of the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, presented in public by the judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, and subsequently publicly confirmed by other prominent representatives of the judiciary, are serious and raise strong doubts about the personality of Supreme Judge Branko Masleš." And with the spirit of our justice and our policy, I would expect the minister not to cause divisions in Slovenia. It's not true that everything was clear. Ten years ago, we got these piles of paper, and for the first time, that was enough. The judge wasn't elected chief judge. And Mr Minister, when a farce and fiasco took place in the Satex matter, ministers in Europe would offer an objective discharge. And I've been counting on you to be able to do this power and courage to reach the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u262	Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. The next debater will be Dusan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u263	Thank you so much for saying that. He would have stopped himself in the first place at two notions. The first is "know," the second is "believe." After all these gruesome debates in recent weeks, we know very much about Mr Maslesha, but quite a variety of information is circulating. We know something about the past, half past, but not everything. What about the question of believing – who to believe here? I believe in Mr. Zobc, the Constitutional Judge, and I believe in other supreme judges. And let me believe these people, if you believe others, also because I've read the resume with a description of professional activity, and I think this CV has a lot of holes. It seems to me that certain functions have been silenced, like various party functions and probably something else, which concerns the profession itself, and I went to look at COBISS and about Mr Masleša at Nuku discovered four hits, four expert articles. You're saying the candidate is an expert. Mr France Testen has 25 professional articles in professional magazines and monographs. Former Supreme Court President Mitja Deisinger 49. Today's COBISS, take a look. Marko Šorli 16. Minister Aleš Zalar, great, 50, great. And the Minister proposes an expert with four publications as the candidate for the President of the Supreme Court. Or such a publication as here, see as your reference candidate states: "I have reviewed the text of an extensive and Slovenian area of the only current comment of the Law on the Criminal Procedure Mag. Stefan Horvath made a number of comments and suggestions for improvements." He reviewed the text of his colleague. Good. Review, that's really interesting. If you appoint Mr President of the Supreme Court, he will be sitting there with the President of the State, with the President of the Government, with the President of the Constitutional Court at the most important holidays. I wonder how he's gonna watch this flag, coat of arms? Or maybe he'll look down? I therefore propose a solution for the President of the State, Dr Danilo Türk, to honor Mr Masleša, as has been the case with Comrade Ertla, and Minister Zalar to propose another candidate. In this way, I think he will also do a favour to the candidate, because this past, too, will be accompanied by this debate at all times. I think we can ask ourselves today what is the legal immune system in Slovenia, which is important for the image of a legal and democratic country. Whether this system, the legal immune system, is so developed that it itself excludes people who act beyond ethical human standards and beyond professional standards. And the second question is also an important question of what is the immune system of some Slovenian lawyers. Is this immune system really so untouchable in this world? Nothing but money, power, position. Colleagues and colleagues, we will, of course, be able to resolve in Slovenia the financial and economic collapse we are witnessing, sooner or later, if this government will soon resign. But for many years we will heal the moral breakdown we have witnessed at this time. The government's human resources moves really deviate from the average, but negative. The government's human resources moves are either below average or below average. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u264	Thank you. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. The next debater will be Mr Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u265	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, the objective of the opposition is to soften and weaken the government to the point of disability, at all costs and with all means. But these things also have their limits, and sometimes you have to stick around. However, this still does not mean that from day to day, from meeting to meeting, it can generate an emergency situation from hour to hour, even in the event of the election of Mr Masleš's President of the Supreme Court. In fact, when in the third trial, after one year all the relevant bodies that are legally justifying the application, this is the Council of Justice, the general meeting of the Supreme Court, the Minister of Justice, when they united themselves that Mr Masleša is a suitable candidate for President, and the Minister proposed him for election to the National Assembly, they called out to his fellow statesmen, who apparently, because of the express "gotrip", as the former President of the Supreme Court, Mr Testen, are unable to do so from their skin when, with general, there is nothing supported by insulting evidence and accusations, and they are also slandering their colleague. And the opposition in the State Council has taken this masochistic approach of rare individuals in the judiciary as a chronic argument to discredit Mr Masles. Some individuals have surpassed themselves in expressing their judgements of value to Mr Masles. We've heard these things today, too. Obviously, in this case, we are also dealing with Slovenian Jugashvili, a politically and repressively educated intriguer, whom we also had the opportunity to see and hear today. And not only that, we have once again the opportunity to see and listen when again trying to introduce some kind of moral and political criteria in electing people to the most important functions in the country. And the flag of this is of course worn by the biggest opposition party, this is the SDS, and this is the way and with the content that was valid in some other times, and this is nostalgia after some other time. All the arguments that we hear together are based on statements from some twenty or sixty years ago, "I heard", "they told me", "he told me" and so on and so on. And these oral memoirs were passed on to paper by critics. And these recorded memories are now considered as a chronic argument for discreditation and so that Mr Maslesha is not elected to this function. The President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia is the first of the same in the series of Supreme Judges. Therefore, the opinion of all the Supreme Judges, which is drawn up by the general meeting, and finally the opinion and position of the Council of Justice, is essential for its appointment. And this opinion is positive today in both cases. However, all the findings that are still being spent today and are linked to 1984 and 2000 under Article 8 of the Judicial Service Act were judged by the Council of Justice and also by the National Assembly in the past appointment of Mr Masleš for a permanent term. This judgment was carried out at the time, since both the Council of Justice and the National Assembly then considered that Branko Masleš did not judge and rule in investigations and judicial proceedings in which fundamental human rights and freedoms would be violated by judgment in the past. It is therefore totally incomprehensible for me to hear today that Mr Maslesha may be a judge with a permanent term of office in the Supreme Court in all these ten, fifteen years, but he cannot be the manager of this same court among his colleagues. This is the wrong world.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u266	Please, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u267	Mr Vice-President, I don't know, maybe you've overheard, maybe you don't know things, but you have to protest because something unheard of happened. The previous speaker, Mr Kumer, pointed out our Member States and said, "Slovak Jugashvili students". It's Stalin. Condemn someone for Slovenian Stalin! Let him say, Mr Kumer, who was killed here by a Member of Parliament, to be equal to a murderer, I don't know twenty to thirty million people, and you don't protest. This is an outrageous insult, and I ask you to immediately warn Mr Kumro that this special war will end. Where he studied, I won't ask him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. The next one is Mr. Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u269	Thank you so much for saying that. My colleague Potts said that we operate on our side with half-truths, lies, insinuations and insinuations. The fact is, whenever the Masles case arose in the National Assembly, the process always stopped and there were always major debates in this case. So when he was appointed to the Supreme Court, before his term of office was confirmed and so on. By 1999, Maslesha was first rejected as a candidate for a judge, a supreme judge, and the procedure should be completed following a normal procedure. If Masles wanted to run again, a new call, a new proposal and so on should be launched. However, those who had power at the time in this National Assembly reached a re-voting vote after a few months and Mr Masleša was confirmed in the re-voting. Mr Potz, who is a Democrat of the old school, from before 1990, probably knows that this can only be done in a regime that does not have some fundamental basis. Unfortunately, all these stories, which were opened at the time, are still open now, only that there are now some other persons, credible persons, who have confirmed certain facts. Facts about independence, dealing with a specific case of border execution verification and so on. Minister Zalar is acting very double-mindedly as a motioner. In the event of a dispute between the Attorney-General and the Attorney-General, they had a settlement, consultation, even with the President of the Government, with the participation of both the Minister, the President of the Government, the Attorney-General and the Attorney-General, and a wealth of misunderstandings, such as in the prosecution procedure. In this case, when making claims publicly, the Constitutional Judge, the Supreme Judges, the former Constitutional Judges, the Minister Zalar does not fully feel any need to examine, examine, confront witnesses and so on. Nothing. And here, the actions of Minister Zalar cannot be considered credible and cannot be considered to be equal to all. There is also no argument as to whether or not there is evidence as to the conduct of Judge Masles at the border. Except he was there and he came back. When we asked for arguments, records, confirmations as to what was actually found in this review, there was no evidence, no answers, no matter what Mr Potrč says, which is clearly only known from secret official papers, from that function he performed before 1990. There he received information about all these postwar killings, certainly because those officials were then specifically informed about certain matters. And he knows it. The rest of us have no information about this. This human rights case, now proposed by Mr Zalar, is one of the pearls of legalization of human rights trampling, and is one of the pearls of the trampling and denial of the rule of law and of all ethical standards. All of it. For proposing someone who was proven to be involved in the border killing verification process, he did not take any judicial or civil steps that he should have taken as a citizen, because he was informed and even carried out the minutes, did not do so, now you are even proposing him as President of the Supreme Court. In short, this personnel part, which legalizes the conduct of the past power – and Mr Potrč was one of the highest there – is that this is being carried out now in this work and at the time when this coalition has this power. This is certainly not the case that we could say that it is some credible thought-out procedure, but only for procedures that have only the task of division, separation, irritation and similar things, here you are certainly the right masters. But I won't support the candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u270	Please, calm down. Mr. Janez Janša has the floor. Mr Bojan Kontic will be the next debater. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u271	Thank you for your word. When Mr Maslesha was confirmed for a permanent term in autumn 1994, he was confirmed in the package. At the time, there were no more than a handful of members of the opposition in the National Assembly. On my explicit question, I was not then a Member of the National Assembly, but when Mr Maslesa was five years later proposed as a member of the Supreme Court, then the President of the Court of Justice, Mr Cvetko, asked my explicit question whether the Council of Justice had checked whether the candidate had ever acted contrary to Article 8 of the Judicial Service Act, in cold blood, replied that the Council of Justice had never checked it. Therefore, it is not true what is claimed that the Council of Justice has verified whether the candidate violated human rights when he was elected for a permanent term. You have the reply of the President of the Council in this regard on the tape. In 1999, the National Assembly voted on the appointment of Mr Maslesha as Judge of the Supreme Court. A two-thirds majority of those present voted against and the procedure was closed. Contrary to normal practice, only in the case of Mr Masleš did this happen, in no other case, the following year was a new proposal to be appointed a member of the Supreme Court. At that time, this proposal was put to the vote after a heated debate when all the same issues were raised. When I read these magnetograms ten years ago, I suggest you read them to yourself, one cannot believe how much intolerance and hatred were then spoken against those who opposed his election. It has been said that we insinuate that the candidate has never signed any record that he has never been on any tour and so on. Some of those sitting in this hall today also said that. Now it turns out, 10 years later, the candidate himself admitted one case and also one signature. There were more. That's when we listed them. In the 1980s only, in Kohorje, during which a youth of Social Democrats said that this was a time of great progress and of human rights flourishing, about 50 civilians who wanted to cross the border were shot. At that time, there was also a general declaration of human rights in Yugoslavia at the time, saying, "Everyone has the right to seek and enjoy refuge from persecution in other countries." Mr Maslesha has directly violated this declaration, has been under review, as he says, and has not initiated any proceedings for the murder of a man who has done something that has been guaranteed by the General Declaration on Human Rights adopted by the General Assembly of the United Nations, irrespective of the other legislation that has been in force. This person has been instrumentally involved in the violation of human rights and will today be at the head of the operational judicial institution, at the summit itself called primarily to protect human rights and to judge in cases where they have been violated. What kind of signal is this for all the judges under him? And what kind of signal is this finally for citizens and citizens? But the coalition insists, because Mr Maslesha is a project from the very beginning. He was the only one who was refused a court order, and the coalition insisted. And he insists now. In short, the directive has fallen and the project must be completed. Apparently, there is a great fear of corpses still being discovered every day after Slovenia, before the law on the conclusion of the property is implemented, where it says that the crimes, savage privatisations do not become obsolete. Apparently, the ruling coalition wants to be at the head of the Supreme Court, in the position of President of the Supreme Court, who signs the orders of the Listening Owl, a man who will do the same as 22 years ago. These are motives and insist, no matter what price we pay on the inside and what price Slovenia pays on the outside in terms of its reputation. European newspapers also say that communist times are returning to Slovenian justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u272	Mr. Bojan Kontic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u273	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Janša will already know how to deal with the directives. That's for the introduction. A number of insults have also been said. You accused my colleague Potts of operating on secret official papers. You'll know it worked on secret official papers. Now, just tell him that Comrade Petty Officer Gorenak delivered them to him, and you made the story complete. You're amazing with all the stories you're talking about. In fact, it is a matter of preventing the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court. And what's best: to associate it with an act that we all condemn, I would even say, without exception. We condemn shooting at the border in those days without exception. Mr. Pojbich, it's probably you who're picking up now. It will probably be possible to continue with the explanation of vote. I expect someone to say something. You have brought the story so far that you could almost say that the investigating judge was involved in this act, so far you have brought the story. I was just waiting for someone else to say that he was still shooting this candidate for President of the Supreme Court, or at least he was involved. You've brought the story so far, and you're willing to throw all the resources you can at it with a bucket of manure, and then expect it to wash. You say the minister should face them. How, though, should the minister weigh who was telling the truth or who was telling the truth in this case, or the Constitutional Judge or candidate for the President of the Supreme Court? In what way should they weigh who is telling the truth, and whom is he going to believe? And what's really interesting is that some people got their memories back in 1984, and now they don't know what to do with it. And this year, in 2010, they remembered what was going on in the court building that day when the investigating judge returned to his post, what he said at the time. Where have they been until 2010? Why did they not act if they knew what was going on? Very strange stories are happening and taking place in this House. I don't object to the opposition. Of course, you object, you can object. You're also saying it's okay if we don't have a judge for a few months. But a few months ago, you were saying that the former candidate should be elected because the court needs someone with full powers. A few months later, you're not in a hurry. But it is right, oppose, vote against, say your opinion, but not take advantage of the position you have, in order to malign someone who, in fact, is not able to defend himself here today. But he did say his thing on the Mandate Election Commission. And just as my colleague Saiovic found out, the silence was after his confession. But then you guys got back together so I wouldn't say reset and repeat all the stories you were telling back then. Am I satisfied with the manner in which I appoint the President of the Supreme Court? No, I would leave it to the judges to do it themselves to elect their own president, just like they do in the Constitutional Court. But that takes a change of law. But we can't change the law during the game. Do the rules change during the game? Is it possible that we don't finish the procedure and change the law because we don't like the candidate? It's hard to understand what you're interpreting as your arguments for objecting. The position of the Council of Justice is important to me. It is important for me to have a general meeting of the Supreme Court. His colleagues supported him in his candidacy, and he's been through everything he's been through lately as a candidate. Many would have given up and abandoned this candidacy, and you probably counted on it, but you didn't run into the right candidate. So he didn't back down from all these accusations, and he was standing up to them, and he was answering all the evidence you gave him. In my opinion, he was responding well to everything you wanted to stick to his career over the years. I will, of course, support the candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u274	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Just a minute. Yes, please, just give us a moment to enter the time. You have 2 minutes and 39 seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Only a few clarifications regarding the opposition of Constitutional and Supreme Judges over the reaction of candidate Masleš. If Constitutional Judge Zobst and Chief Justice Stroves had communicated what they had said about the media gathered, the General Meeting of the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice, then these two authorities could also have considered these findings. And, of course, on the occasion that they gave the candidate Masleša the opportunity to make these observations, they made the appropriate decision on the basis of this. The judges mentioned above did not do this. Why didn't you do it? I don't know. But it is difficult to get rid of some bad feelings about it. Later it turned out that the Supreme Judge, who tried to support the interpretation of the Constitutional Judge, had shown a rather unreliable memory. It turned out that he remembered that he was to be treated on the day of the sightseeing of Masles, but of course he had no treatment because it was Saturday. Then he said, well, if it wasn't Saturday, it was Monday. And he didn't have any hearings Monday either. And he doesn't mind because he tried to remember something 26 years ago. But, you know, this is a typical case of judges weighing statements by witnesses who oppose each other and weigh them a little, especially when these confessions are beginning to get complicated. I had no opportunity at all to check some of these statements because they were made after the proposal had already been made in the National Assembly. In fact, it is only up to you, Members and Members of Parliament, to decide how something convinces you or not. But when I was talking about dosed and disproportionate statements, I wasn't thinking about those two judges or those judges, I was thinking about those who compared the Maslesha candidate to Kurt Waldheim. This seemed extremely inappropriate to me, and this is what I pointed out in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u276	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We move to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision appointing Mr Branko Maslesa, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia at the Supreme Court for a period of six years Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group. Mr. Gorenak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Much has been said, but I will go from the end. Look, the minister had time to see if it was Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday, whether they were being treated or not. But he didn't have time to check his actual condition. But it doesn't even matter that much. Let's take a look at the situation we're facing. Thus, like everything since 1992, or whenever it has been decided on by that person in the National Assembly, the Ecumenical Group will act in exactly the same way today. There are several reasons for this. In 1992, the Law on Courts was very clear: "Those who did not participate in court proceedings or in trials which constituted a violation of human rights could be elected for a permanent term of office." As has already been said, Yugoslavia has been a party to this Convention. What's going on? Today, in 2010, when other European countries, and in particular Germany, which had far-reaching cases, all the people who participated in these proceedings should be soldiers, whether it be their bosses, whether it be anyone or even party officials. Ten years ago, she put them in court and convicted them. In Slovenia we were not decent to do this until 2000, but we are able to vote in 2010 on behalf of an ideology that imagined that such people should be put to the top of the judiciary, we are able to vote in the National Assembly on a candidate that we should never vote in the National Assembly. Because all the institutions that are before the National Assembly, in particular the Council of Justice and all other bodies, especially the Minister, should carry out their tasks. The Minister did not perform these tasks. I've definitely proved that, and I'm going to have to prove it again in some other procedure in the National Assembly. Not just that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u278	Mr. Gorenak, I need to interrupt you slowly because time didn't run out, but [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u279	I think I'm done, I've seen [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u280	Time's up. Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u281	Thank you very much. I'm just finishing my thought. Above all, it was not the general meeting of the Supreme Court, which disgraced the judiciary with the proposal it had made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u282	Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Report. Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u283	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I am speaking on behalf of the Group of Members in which we will vote against this proposal. This is due to the fact that the Minister who has to fight for an independent judiciary is certainly expected to take into account all the doubts raised by this proposal, so we cannot get rid of the feeling that it is a political appointment. We have repeatedly said in various debates or various important appointments, the most important appointments in the National Assembly in all these years, that there should be no doubt about such appointment. And that's the problem. We will therefore vote against this proposal in the parliamentary group, and we expect that there will also be a number of coalition members to join in such a way of voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u284	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u285	Thank you for your word. The Zares Group, the majority of the Members of this Group, will vote in favour of the proposal, because in today's debate and after today's debate it is even more obvious that it was not political recruitment, but politicalisation of the further process of this debate. Mr Maslesha is a candidate who has received the undisputed support of the Court of Justice and the general meeting of the Supreme Judges. We should confirm this will of the judiciary. But since there is always a political affair, and this time on the basis of unfounded convictions and also a lot of lies, we have had another debate that proves that the opposition, in particular the biggest opposition party, has no great interest in the smooth functioning of the rule of law. And it is clear why, at this point, for them the atmosphere of tense relationships, which also arise with this vacuum in the judicial branch, is very favourable. We believe that it is necessary to attach particular importance to the advocates of the rule of law, that the politicisation of such and other appointments of judicial, judicial personnel should be stopped, that the law should be amended in order to depoliticise this process and that the lynx, which the opposition has repeatedly afforded at the expense of individuals, should be stopped at ethical level. This is exactly what happened. And what convinced us the most about the candidate's going to believe is the fact that those who condemned him never came to face him, they didn't want to face him and us, but they acted from behind, from the media room, without having the courage to look into the eyes of the candidate and defend those accusations that they had afforded without any evidence. Allow me to suspect that this was the highly politicized motivation of these gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u286	Anybody else want to explain their voice in their own name? Check-in is on. In doing so, I would like to remind you that the debate has been closed and that in this part we will focus only on explanations of vote. No debate. Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u287	Recently, someone wrote that there is no God and that everything is allowed. I think that this debate about the appointment of the new President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia has shown that some imagine that everything is allowed in this country. In this country, we have made a wise decision over a decade ago not to do lustration. It is wise, because I think that with responsible conduct and a view to our half-lived history, with dignity, regret and pride, where appropriate, we could experience a genuine national reconciliation when we make such a decision, but not a genuine national reconciliation. Because part of the policy always reopens some of the painful issues of our history for short-sighted political interests. And what this debate shows is that man in this community, in this society, no longer has any value. For what part of Slovenian politics has afforded on this issue with grave discredit, not to say liquidation, to discredit a man who, according to his professional references, shows that he does not have a mark on his trial dress. Read his program. In the multitude of contemplations that you had to make up for finding such structures, you must have forgotten what is worth this story. His program, his résumé. "At the time of my application, the situation in society is complicated, relations fall apart, the assessment of the crisis of values prevails." It's so true.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u288	Mr. Frangež, you didn't tell me how you were going to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u289	I'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u290	Mr Rudolf Petan is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u291	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I cannot support this outrageous proposal and I will vote against it. Why? This was also the case with foreign media. For example, Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung wrote to the day before yesterday: "When a Yugoslav soldier on 7 July 1984 at the start of the holiday season on the Adriatic over Trieste shot a fugitive from Eastern Europe, an investigative judge named Branko Maslesha, who was also a party secretary in the Koper district, arrived from Koper and is thus one of the most influential men of the time. He was the President of the Court, who issued the last death sentence in Slovenia. On the spot, he found that the fugitive lay motionlessly on the Italian side. The indictment was not filed. To the question of what measures he had taken to prosecute the crime, the judge did not give any answer." That's what Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung wrote. And how were such cases resolved in Germany, where they had similar cases with the merger of the border with East Germany? They put everything in court. In the case of Streletz, Kessler and Krenz, after reuniting before the German courts, they were sentenced to five and a half years, seven and a half years, and six and a half years for maiming in indirect guilt. Everyone complained about a court in Strasbourg. There, however, the Grand Chamber of the European Court of Human Rights decided in two judgments on 22 March 2001 that Germany had not infringed the first paragraph of Article 7 of the European Convention on Human Rights by a conviction for murder. Moreover, after understanding this court, it is justified for the rule of law to bring a criminal prosecution against persons who have been found guilty of crimes before the previous regime, nor can it be made clear to the court of a democratic State that the legal decisions in force at the time of the act are applied and interpreted in the light of the principles of the rule of law. Well, crime is a crime. Shooting and killing is murder. That is to say, the Germans were perfectly justified at the time they were convicted. What about us?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u292	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u293	Thank you very much. I will not support this proposal either, because I have not been convinced by the cynicism of the coalition Members who have explained that those who knew about these irregularities should have been made aware of these violations of human rights before. And I wonder how many people who know where the mass graves were, where thousands of people have been killed, yet they still don't hope to reveal it today because they're afraid. And also, as we know, Mr Maslesha has been and is probably still very influential, at least in those circles that decide on these matters. And here we can look for a reason why these people who knew about it failed or hoped to explain things earlier. Now they sensed so much responsibility that they tried to warn the minister and also the coalition at the time of the decision. By defending his professional qualifications, his references — the distinguished President of the Supreme Court, who speaks English so much that he will have to refresh him now that you support him, and he knows nothing but Croatian and Serbian. Is this some reputation in international institutions, in European countries? I would expect him to speak English, French, German so that we could be proud of him. This is a slap and a laugh to Slovenian democracy, to the Slovenian judiciary and to those few judges who respect their profession and also judge as they should. In no case should we support this proposal, and of course I will not.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u294	Mr. Janez Janša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u295	I'll vote against it, just like I did 11 years ago, and 10 years ago. When we claimed 10 years ago that Mr Maslesha had verified the murder or murder at the border by signing the minutes, we were accused of being liars. Ten years later, he admitted it himself. The minister explains how this was a normal act, that he was on duty at the time, and so on. During the time we are talking about, the military judiciary in Slovenia had their investigative on-call judges. I know that from my own experience. I was brought before him at night, and they said there was a court-martial on duty. It wasn't a murder, it was a less pressing matter. Civil judges who cooperated with the military court could only have been members of the military anti-intelligence or secret service. And they were subject to double criteria, to those that were applicable to the public, and to those which were published in secret rules and were also illegal under the then Constitution. And Mr Maslesha was there as an instrument of apparatus that systematically violated human rights. And today, the government coalition, by appointing Mr Maslesha, is performing an act that is a symbolic mockery of human rights. You're also physically laughing at these things, as I can see, which is additionally disgusting.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u296	Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u297	I will vote against it because today's debate has shown the nullity of all the arguments that have been made in favour of Mr Masleš. both substantively and particularly constitutionally. When Mr Constitutional Judge Jan Zobez draws attention to his statements in court, you compare it to statements on the ground, somewhere on the spot. So it's not about the same local thing, or the same time thing. So there's nothing to challenge these statements. Therefore, this doubt remains justifiably. Constitutionally, however, the matter is even worse. Because constitutional law teaches modern constitutional law that there is only one rule that has been made publicly available. JLA was working her murders on the basis of a secret official letter. So on the basis of something that is not perceived as an existing regulation in modern law, but something that constitutes a violation of human rights, of fundamental freedoms and is in desperate contradiction with European values, is clearly contrary. And that's what this is all about. We have a responsibility to assess whether the candidate is suitable to increase confidence in the system's institution, in justice and whether it will enhance Slovenia's reputation abroad. Given that his role, when it comes to the attempted legal coverage of a murder, is certainly controversial at the border and recognises it itself, there is therefore only one European solution. We have to vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u298	Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u299	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues! Minister, I don't really know what you wanted or what you're trying to do with this proposal that you proposed Maslesha as President of the Supreme Court. Although you know very well that two years ago, I think twice, in 1999, and only then in 2000, he was able to become a supreme judge in the second round. You knew you were going to separate the Slovenian public, Minister, that's not good.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u300	Mr. Pukšič, no controversy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u301	And as has already been said, even a shadow of doubt should not fall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u302	Don't argue with me. On this side, allow me to hold a meeting of the National Assembly. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u303	As has been said from our side, from our parliamentary group, even a shadow of doubt should not fall for such a responsible place. You knew you had no arguments, you knew that you had a power argument, of course, and that's wrong. Just as it was wrong when after many years of trial, after a few months, the then President of the Government, in the case of Danilo Kovacic, released him when he was convicted. Of course, politics affects the work of the judiciary. Politics not only affects the work of the judiciary, but also, of course, the rule of law system, the rule of law system, but also, if you want, the entire reputation of our country, outside or at home, which also has consequences for the economy. With regard to discrimination, colleagues and colleagues, some of you have discriminated against colleague Magajno.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u304	Mr Pukšič, you did not tell me how you would vote, despite the fact that I reminded you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Check-in is on. Mrs. Eva Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u305	Thank you very much again. As has already been said, I will not support this proposal made by Minister Zalar to the National Assembly. It is quite clear that this appointment is only before us so that you can manage the Supreme Court and all the tasks associated with it through the audited staff of the previous undemocratic times, as Mr Masleš illustrates. It is clear that Mr Masleša, after all these discussions, is a leading project that will carry out tasks at the request of the current authorities. And although colleague Yuri repeatedly repeats that this is a political issue and that we wanted to politicize it – certainly not. This is not a political issue, but it is a question of respect for human rights, a question of how to deal with human life and how to treat the country. And that's the most basic elemental one. We will send a very strange signal, not only to Slovenia, but also to the foreign public, if we are today or if you will confirm this controversial proposal, which has upset the Slovenian public. In his introduction, Minister Zalar said that it was a function that required all public confidence. Therefore, I now recommend to Minister Zalar that, if he is sincere in his thoughts, and if he really is behind those words, there should be a person in such a position who has confidence in the public, then he should withdraw. He still has this proposal. I can't support him on my own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u306	Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u307	Thank you so much for saying that. When I vote, I will abstain, as I have predicted. Not because I was convinced by the SDS's accusations and arguments and their aggressive performance. Today, former Constitutional Judge Matevž Krivic wrote to us. I agree with his opinion, which says that politics must not be in a position to become a judge between the different opinions of judges. I also agree with his initiative that the appointment of the Supreme Court must be returned to the judges as soon as possible. The guilt says we'll never be able to know and find out what the truth was in this case. I will also abstain because I believe that in functions and positions such as the Attorney-General's Office, the police, the Anti-Corruption Commission, the courts, the Constitutional and Supreme Court, there should be such people who enjoy trust, respect and respect. Here I stress – between the majority of citizens and citizens. We've already got a politicized D.A.'s office that's doing bad. We have a court that, according to the general assessment, also works poorly, but only mentions the last case of Satex. Therefore, I think it is easy to ask whether, after all these events, the new Supreme Court will be able to perform its function in a responsible and sovereign manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u308	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u309	I do not wish to condemn Mr Masleš, but I want to know whether what is written and appeared in the media is true. If I may say so, at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, it was not as some of you said, that Judge Masles had not responded to much. There were no answers to many questions. Why was he on the lookout when it came to the jurisdiction of the military prosecutor's office? Who tipped him off about the event? What was he told? If he was condemning the act, he must have known it was a murder. What did he do? Who did he report the case to? How did he act? What was he doing as a party secretary in a cop court of law? What tasks did he have? And the minister hasn't responded to much either. Above all, the problem is that he has not checked many of the things he should have checked. He hasn't checked the claim of seven people, of these three judges. I don't know if he's judging them or saying they're lying. If so many people come forward in such a matter, the minister would only be expected to ask them about the opinion. 70% of the people questioned estimate that the candidate is inadequate and does not speak the truth. But Minister Aleš could say nothing, and he doesn't care. Mr Maslesha admitted at the general meeting on 17 September that he had carried out a tour or signed the minutes. In Youth 29. 10. he said he was on one tour of the border and made a record, so he didn't just sign it. At press conference three. 11. declared that he had participated in the survey of the execution of refugees, i.e. several visits by more refugees. All this is what the minister should check. And above all, this is all the Members that we should be deciding today, but we don't know. That's why I won't support Mr. Masleš.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u310	Mr. Franci Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u311	Thank you for your word. I myself agree that politics has nothing to do with the judiciary. As long as the law is what it is, we are going to vote in a few moments and we just have to make a decision. When Mr Masleš appeared as a candidate, the articles in the media sparked that man had been given the feeling that he was a widower who was covering the crimes of that country from his position. Similarly, it continued on the Mandate-Electorial Commission. I myself had a shared opinion on this man until I became involved in this matter. Fortunately, however, I was present twice on the Commission's terms of reference, and twice I listened to the opposition interpreting it as if Mr Maslesha had almost been involved in the killings. I listened to Minister Zalar, and I listened to the candidate. We are also hearing today that Maslesha tried to cover the murders legally. In four years, when he was in that position, on one occasion he was on duty to visit the border, and once again to visit elsewhere. He was on two counts of murder along with the D.A. and along with the militia. And if there's anyone to press charges, it's the D.A. It's his function. That's never happened at that time. It's come up. [[adverts from benches]] to invite those who had a negative opinion on Maslesha.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u312	Mr. Vito Rozej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u313	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. I believe that the procedure is the mother of democracy, so I have listened carefully to the references of those who, at least in my opinion, get to know better than I do about the entries, about the copies, where something should be found, where something could be checked. But if I know at the same time that this specialist was once the commander of the human militia in Celje, where he made employee records and files, you must let me have doubts about the strength of these allegations. I would be happy if the candidate for the President of the Supreme Court and his connoisseurs could face their opinions and statements. This was possible on the Human Rights Commission, where the connoisseurs did not come. But he was a candidate. The predecessors already told us what he said there. The Council of Justice confirmed the candidate's suitability, including the general meeting of the court. The Minister has verified his obligation under the law, the facts and the circumstances. However, the minister is not obliged by law to examine the accusations, lies, floods and instigations, even if they are published by Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung. Interestingly, no other newspaper has ever published any such news about Slovenia. Those who have doubts about candidates like this today cannot demand that candidates come before this National Assembly without a shadow of doubt. That's impossible. This is a prophecy that is being fulfilled itself, and in this case, in opposition to the SDS, I think, it goes to Judge Maslesha. It is ironic that today the legal state test is being discussed by those who demolish this state of law at every step are discredited by the Constitutional Court, the President of the State, the individual prosecutors and the judges. I'm sorry to have to co-operate with people who appreciate it so little. I hope that the new generations of judges will appreciate themselves, their own power and this country more than those generations that have co-existed and therefore have an opinion that they can work with it as a pig with fur. I don't think so, and as long as there are no better people in the Supreme Court, there are still four people sitting there, who are also the death penalty, say, who will be awarded a candidate for Masles who will be supported by me.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u314	Mr. Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u315	Thank you for your word. Well, I won't support Mr. Masleš for three reasons. But I have to say that not because perhaps his professional references are the worst of all the candidates so far, but not because he went to look at the crime – such omnipotent views is also a great deal today – ampa, because he lied. First he said he didn't make any observations, that he didn't even know there were such commissions, then of course he admitted one, he lied. Second, because he found himself in such a shallow apology, he received a statement from a secretary about how greatly he was appalled by the sight of that body. You know what, the investigating judge is gonna be horrified!? But that's a lot of crimes and even corpses through. As a doctor, I did my rounds, but I was no longer appalled after ten bodies. That's unconvincing, at least what I can say. And thirdly, because this supreme judge will decide when Mrs Kresalov's police will follow me, spy on me and so on. And the appointment of this gentleman as supreme judge, believe me, is a very bad signal for our rule of law and for faith in the judiciary. Poor Slovenia, if it can have such a judicial branch of power!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u316	Mr. Luke Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u317	Thank you very much. I will vote in favour because the name Branko Maslesz by Indian numerology means number three, which means that the person bearing that name is happy, capable and full of ideology. This is, of course, a completely insurmountable argument and it is a rhetorical hyperbola that I wanted to point out the unreality of my opposition colleagues' arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u318	Mrs. Darja Lovtišar Bebler also has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u319	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. To support Mr. Maslesha, I've already told you. Most of the discredit was based on a rhetorical question: Where was Mr Maslesha in 1984? The answer is, he was also an investigative judge. Where were some of you sitting there today? I read, for example, that Mr Janez Janša was at the time preparing a problem conference of the Union of Socialist Youth of Slovenia on the division of security and defence, and he wrote: "In the context of undeveloped, predominantly agrarian and war-torn countries JLA performed a great socialisation function, ranging from education, general education and ideal political work to defence education, all of which is being done today. However, its engagement and assistance to the people in various cases confirms its growth with working people, its commitment to the social system of socialist self-government, which puts it at the core of our state sovereignty." Look, if not for another reason, that's my answer for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u320	I can still see the hands, so I'm opening the application. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u321	I'll try to be as short as I can. There are three reasons why I will vote in favour of appointing Mr Branko Masleša as supreme judge, President of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The first reason is that I have read a letter from Mr Matevža Krivica, who has forgotten in his teaching tone that we must take into account the decisions of the courts or judicial authorities, the judicial bodies, because they are the ones who have to choose their bosses if I say so at home. And so it was decided by the gentlemen of the Council of Justice and gentlemen at the general meeting of the Supreme Court. Thus, the judges themselves wish to have Mr Branko Masleša as President of the Supreme Court. Therefore, if we read the letter from Mr Matevža Krivica, as it has been written, because we have not yet changed the law, it would be right that policy, rather than abuse its role in confirming the decisions of judges, would take into account their instructions when it is decided in their own bodies. Secondly, I will support it because of the letter I read, which was written by the former President of the Supreme Court, Mr Franz Testen, a gentleman whom I considered to be a strong advocate of right-wing power in a political sense. But, behold, man has found that Mr Maslesha's accusations are a product of completely different causes than what we are listening to today. And the third reason is that the division of the Slovenian people, the Slovenians, to one end and the other. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u322	Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u323	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, with his fellow Members, colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I too will support Mr Maslesha in this candidacy for all the reasons listed so far. That he has good qualifications, that they're all gossip, whatever was going on with him. But I would like to draw attention to another aspect of why I will support him. You say almost 70% of people don't support him. Yeah, why doesn't he support him? We know why: due to the well-thought-out and well-planned action of discrediting this professional who repeats himself. This method is repeated on the side of some circles, and I won't tell everyone in the SDS for years. I was one of the targets of these methods myself. And, my dears, it's not just called discreditation, it's called counterintelligence. And I congratulate you, in this you are very qualified, some even graduated. And if you think the entire Slovenian public will fall for such matters in any case, it cannot bring Slovenia forward. Slovenia will be brought forward by some consensus in this country, not by the instigation of the most capable members of this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u324	Mr. Marijan Pojbich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u325	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. First of all, I must say that I will strongly oppose this proposal by Mr Masleš. Of course, there are many reasons. Firstly, I would like to make it very clear that no opposition in the National Assembly has proposed Mr Masleš for this function. And no opposition in the National Assembly is the one that opposed Slovenia's independence. And do not expect me to give my voice to a man or people who have violated or were present when human rights were violated. You can't support a man like that. All the rumors about how to provide the rule of law are irrelevant, meaningless, insulting to the Slovenian nation. When we propose candidates for such important functions in this country, such people who opposed the independence of Slovenia, who were present when human rights were violated, because it was very clearly written in the law as to how such situations were dealt with. There are many reasons for saying this in favour of what the opposition thinks here, and it doesn't matter what the coalition thinks. However, it is extremely important how the arguments for or against speak. Those who have proposed to Mr Maslesha here must take responsibility for all that is happening today in the National Assembly. I am very sorry, and I must say that I am also a little ashamed to have such candidates in this country of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u326	Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u327	Thank you so much for saying that. I won't support the candidate. I will not support it because I oppose such human resources paradigms when they do not get a mandate, when they do not get the support of the judges who have given themselves and have participated in the Senate, which gives a discharge to Member Rupar, and when the most valuable judges who run for the highest positions who have participated in the verification of both at the Western border or at any other border. I will also not support this because there are many people among you who publicly oppose the death penalty, and you call on Members not to travel to countries where they have the death penalty. At the same time, you will support the candidate for the President of the Supreme Court, the one who participated in the last death penalty in Slovenia, and I will not support it because in this country, in fact, there is no validity of those who supported independence, but the main ones who opposed or even demeaned it. I also find it difficult to support a proposal that does not mean trust, upgrade or trust in the judiciary, because this proposal does not bring about a person who enjoys confidence, but rather a person who is not burdened by suspicion alone, but also by the fact that he has cooperated not to carry out his task with the fundamental demands of the rule of law, not to carry out his task in accordance with the Declaration on the Protection of Human Rights, that he has not ensured equality against the law and so on. In short, I do not support the proposal and it is not surprising that the main intention is also in this mandate towards the southeast. This is how everything is done, and this is how it is done, after all the substantive and other decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u328	Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Of course, I can also say in my own name that I will not support the candidate. The reason, of course, is that today's event in this National Assembly has already stuck Mrs Beblereva in the month of June or July when we discussed Mr Šorli. At that time, it was said that the candidate would not receive support because he had forgiven Paul Rupar. I've quoted this from Members of Parliament many times, and no problems, she'll be able to see for herself what she said. In fact, I'm not surprised at the part of the MPs' coalition, but I actually have to be surprised at the work. Those of you who are directly involved in such matters, I understand what's going on in your head. However, those who are not directly involved in this and who are not directly related to it are actually surprised by their thinking, especially when it comes to younger people who could look at it from a longer distance. We can't talk about yours and ours today. The Minister has brought this proposal today. The minister brought him here, not the opposition. Therefore do not report to the opposition that she has put herself in a position to divide us into ours and yours. So it's the Minister who made the decision. But to talk about the most modern, capable people of this society, you should know how to write C-O-B-I-S, enter, type, say, the minister's name, my name and the candidate's name. And then we'll come to the minister at 70, and I'll have 300, 250, 300, and I'll have the candidate at 4. These are the most capable people. And the militiaman told you, yes, thank you very much, Mr. Contic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u330	I conclude the debate or explanation of vote. We're moving on to decision-making. Once again, we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision appointing Mr Branko Maslesa, High Court of Justice in the Supreme Court of Slovenia, as President of the Supreme Court of Slovenia for a period of six years. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 83 Members and Members present and 47 votes against 32. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 32.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Please, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u331	Mr. Chairman, I raised my hand at the right time. The light doesn't burn anymore, and I can do whatever I want, not burn. The device's not working.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u332	Good. I'm adjourning the session in five minutes. In the meantime, I'm gonna ask the services to review your device.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u333	Dear Members and Members! They told me that after reviewing Mr Petan's voting device, everything was fine. This concludes the vote. This concludes the agenda. I think I made myself clear. I interrupted the session for five minutes. The Technical Service examined it and informed me that the voting device was fine. They didn't fix it. That's what I was told. Procedural question, Mr. Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u334	Thank you for your word. I would ask you to comply with the demands of the opposition and put once again to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u335	Please, Mr. Petan!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u336	Thank you for your word. A representative of the service that deals with it came in and saw that the light didn't burn, that the device didn't work. Then he trained her. You can also see on the vote sheet that my device did not work, and a record has also been drawn up. Now the device is working. She's never worked before.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u337	I believe you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u338	I'm the one who warned you right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u339	It happens to me sometimes, and to someone else when you give a card, you don't press a little, not a light.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u340	Mr Vice President, the device didn't work and I couldn't vote. I'm the one who warned you right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u341	Mr Petan, this case is no reason to repeat the vote. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Proceed with interrupt 2A. Point 3 of the agenda - Thirdly, the draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act is being considered in the framework of an urgent procedure. The National Assembly is on Wednesday, 17. 11. In 2010, the second reading of that draft law was carried out in the context of an urgent procedure and, since qualified applicants announced amendments for the third consideration of the draft law, the consideration of this point was discontinued. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u342	Thank you very much, Mr President, even for the suffering you have suffered. I note that the amendments are tabled in Articles 2, 12 and 13. I am therefore opening the first debate on the amendment and the second article tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Please, Mrs. Matthew Vranitzer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u343	Thank you so much for saying that. With regard to the proposed amendment to Article 2, which increases the amount of total farm income for which it will be necessary to keep books, €7 000 to €15 000 in 2013, I would like to point out that this proposal virtually destroys the intent of the proposal for a law whereby large farms or farms in which agricultural activities are carried out in a way that is already part of a regular economic activity will find a tax basis by keeping books. In 2013, only 186 farms in Slovenia would accept this idea, i.e. 0.22% of those farms that achieve cadastral income and subsidies that have to be included in the tax base are obliged to keep books. In 2015, when 100 % of the subsidies received will be included in this total income, 762 farms, representing still less than 1 % and 0,89 % of those farms whose income from the basic agricultural activity constitutes a tax base for the calculation of those taxable persons who work on those farms and are liable to income. Given that this amendment would completely destroy the purpose of the proposal by reshaping the treatment of the incomes of basic agricultural and basic forestry activities in the Income Act, we oppose this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u344	Thank you very much. Anybody want a word? Please, Mr. Bogovich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u345	Nice hello to you all! Ma'am, we have the same data, so I'd like to make an explanation. Now you said this number would only be 186. I have this table in front of me that says so, so I'd like to make it clear first that we know if we're talking about the real thing. Now, we are not talking about the amount that will go to the tax base, but about the censorship, the limit on which agricultural economies will be obliged to manage the bookkeeping. And in Article 2, which speaks of this censorship, the diction is: "If the total income of the members of the farm household from the basic agricultural and basic forestry activities exceeds EUR 7 000 500, or if the members of the agricultural household who are still doing so make a voluntary decision." Just to clarify whether we are now talking about the total income or the income that will be taxed. I understand differently that the total income of these farms is still - and that this is the information that you have given, that there are more than 15 000 762 farms with more than 15,000 of this total tax revenue, which will be only half of the taxed in the first year. Therefore, I think that your claim that now there would be only 186 farms of those who would overcome this censorship is not true, but we are talking about 762 farms. This, however, is those poor thousands of farms that we ourselves have estimated that farms are at such a level with so much production that they are likely already included in the VAT system and this will not mean any additional costs to them by bookkeeping. Please, if you can explain this, we know if we're talking about the same thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u346	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vranitz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u347	Thank you so much for saying that. Yes, we are talking about a limit on which books will have to be kept. I would like to draw attention to the new fourth paragraph of Article 47, which is introduced by this same paragraph of the draft law. This paragraph defines what shall be taken into account when determining the total income referred to in the second paragraph of this Article. Our understanding of this Article is that, given the fact that in 2013 the total income from 2011 will be taken into account in determining this limit amount of 7 000 500 or otherwise, if the National Assembly votes otherwise. In 2011, there is a transitional solution whereby only 50 % of agricultural policy subsidies or revenues are included in the tax base will be added to the cadastral income for the determination of the total income of only 50 % of the agricultural policy revenue in 2011. Therefore, during the transitional period 2013 and 2014, there will be fewer farms included in the bookkeeping system than in 2015, when the full amount of subsidies will be taken into account in determining the total income. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u348	Thank you very much. There's still a desire for a debate, so I'm opening time for applications. Anyone who wants a word, please sign in. Mr. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u349	Thank you very much. Desiring to help agriculture, which certainly deserves help, and it is also time to in the agricultural field [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u350	Mr. Saiovic, they're warning me, but earlier from the bench there was a warning. The fact that you see red now means that you have every right to have up to five minutes, including red numbers, because the numbers are running away from the previous second reading. Five minutes, but for that red number. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u351	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I won't take that long. All taxes, which are flat-rate, average, are as bad as in segedin. Someone's just meat and someone wants to. We have to educate Slovenian farmers in this direction to determine income based on the actual Marjan, do you want to help? [[...]] Thank you very much. We need to identify income on the basis of the real situation. The management of bookkeeping is indeed a burden, and financially it is definitely to help farmers, because inputs to agricultural activities are such a great ransom and net income seized so small that this matter is certainly in their favour. If we do not have thousands of farms in Slovenia where we are able to manage bookkeeping, then we have a catastrophically poor record of drawing on European funds in the field of subsidies. A similar story was Parevolt and resistance to the story of subsidies. Today 55, 60,000 Slovenian farms write books, keep records, submit applications and therefore receive more than 50% of their income from this title, and this is the story. If we want to write European applications, European calls, then we must like to send a certain degree of administration to agriculture that is of benefit to us, but of course it is not pleasant.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u352	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. Excuse me, Mr. Bogovich first.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u353	Dear colleague Saiovic! We had the opportunity to educate farmers. You were a veterinarian because I appreciate this profession, I'm an agronomist myself, and I also worked in the advisory service. That is why we know in detail Slovenian agriculture. However, I fear that as Members we will be very difficult, and also what I wanted to clarify, is that I still do not believe that your explanation is correct or I do not see a clear picture that the tax base is now also censorship. I think it's going to happen differently. If I read this issue to make this censorship, the total remuneration, as in Article 2, states that this is total actual income, and in this case we are talking about 3,000 100 farms, 7 000 500 euros. 3 000 100 bookkeeping farms are 3 million euros of money that will go from agriculture under the tactics of the National Assembly, which will prescribe mandatory accounting to those who want it and to those who do not. In caring for their economy, leave it to people, some people have already made up their minds. Many people now decide on VAT and there will certainly be younger advanced farms for bookkeeping. By telling them that it is wise for them to do so, I fear that we will not succeed. However, €3 million is a very large amount of money. As colleagues Žerjav said last time, if 100 euros per month is this duty, because there is no simplified bookkeeping now, that is a thousand 200 euros at the annual level. It is said that one farm has to sell 6 bulls every year for this because more than 200 euros in bulls are not left. It means you'll have to have 12 bulls in the barn, because every other year you can sell a bull to pay someone for your bookkeeping services. When we also looked at the European Commission's orientations on the Anti-Birocratic Programme, it was precisely the area of agriculture where it was mentioned that it had the greatest potential for de-birocraticising agriculture and reducing costs in this area. What we do is, for my understanding, some compulsion, where I don't know who wants it, and what any of it will have, if the farmers are required to do it now. Many who may have five more years to live to work in peace because they do not otherwise, and will not work anymore, we will force them to give up their agricultural activities because they simply have enough red tape. With regard to applications for subsidies today, most advisory services are doing so. However, if we are talking about any investment programme, this investment programme must be worth at least EUR 100,000, so that five to seven thousand euros of administrative costs with investment programmes with different environmental reports will be paid off. So don't tell me these farmers are gonna do it themselves. However, I see no reason why these politicians should care so much about their intellectual management, because they themselves are not smart enough to have us prescribe mandatory accounting.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u354	Mr. Bogovich, it's been five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u355	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u356	Mr. President, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u357	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. So I am sure that the interpretation of the law, as you have said, will take account of the overall revenue rather than the 50% reduction in 2011. That's how we understand this law. I am sure that everyone who uses and controls this law will also understand this law. That's why keeping accounting at a price of 7 thousand 500 euros, I think the official data, calculated for today's situation, is just over 3 thousand 134. Official data 3 000 134 farms are, of course, practical. What does it mean in practical terms? This means the average of good 50 farms in the area of each administrative unit or, if you like, in the area of the former municipalities. This is not a small thing, it is not a small number, for sure, by agreeing, of course, that it is necessary to promote this management of accounting even for the benefit of all, but not to force. And I also asked the Minister of the Jews today, or recommended that the Ministry also organise some kind of propaganda for this promotion for the management of bookkeeping in farms, and in what way this and propaganda and education, of course, will be carried out. This is why we have proposed, of course, the transition or correction of this number from 7 000 to 15 000, which means there close to a thousand farms or slightly less than 800 farms in Slovenia. Again, now I will recalculate this is about fourteen farms in the area of one former congregation or in the area of one administrative unit, i.e. on average. And that is why I propose to accept this amendment, which costs nothing to the state. The budget costs nothing, but it is a great relief for those who do not wish or cannot afford this bookkeeping for the time being, of course, in the desire to get to this simple bookkeeping yet a little larger farms as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u358	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u359	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Look, if we consider a farm with a total income of 5,000 or 7 thousand 500 to be a big farm, then I don't know what else is easy. Otherwise, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment to Article 2, because it means some compromise between the initial proposed amount of EUR 5,000 and EUR 7 000 500 and the now proposed EUR 15 000 to make the tax base mandatory as a threshold. More than once, it has been reiterated that the system of income provision for tax purposes is demanding and costly. This would mean an additional financial and administrative burden for Slovenian farmers, which would hardly help to consolidate public finances, and for a farmer it would be worth every euro. By adopting the new law in the proposed text, a Slovenian farmer will be placed before a dilemma, whether to produce food, it is said to sow, say, wheat or fruit potatoes or maybe to become an official or even open an accounting service. Some would certainly be paid for this, and the question is what this will mean for us citizens in the future, for Slovenian agriculture and for the Slovenian economy in general. With the support of this amendment, we will at least partially ease this situation and I propose that fellow Members support this amendment, which we will also support in our party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u360	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss it? No, no, no. I conclude the debate on Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2. I am putting to the vote the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 2. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present. It was 32 votes against 36. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the amendment to Article 2 has not been adopted. We are moving on to Article 12 and the amendment to Article 12. The amendments were tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party and the Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u361	Thank you very much, again. I will also say this amendment to Article 12 and Article 13 at the same time that I do not advertise, we will support the Slovenian Democratic Party. Of course, because I think that each of us is aware that a farmer also has costs in carrying out his activities. According to data, in Slovenia more than 90% of Slovenian farms applying subsidies do not reach income or minimum wage. And now we're taxing him with subsidies that anyone who's got five minutes of time, see how much money he gets, how many tractors he's got. But he doesn't want to see these tractors on average, like, 20 or 30 years old. Besides, the old people said, "A rich farmer, a rich country." However, if we look at the situation as it is with us, the country will certainly not be rich for much longer. The income position of the Slovenian farmer is, according to data, extremely poor and has been deteriorating lately. In addition, this situation threatens, in our view, the completely unacceptable amendment to the Income Act. The amendment therefore proposes that, in order to determine the tax base from the other revenues referred to in Article 70 of the Law for 2010 and beyond, in Article 13 for 2011 and 2012, 30% of the revenue instead of the proposed 50 should be taken into account. I suggest you support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u362	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vrančnik, can I give it to the gentleman first? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u363	Thank you for your word. Well, it's not going to turn out to be Article 12, as if we were really taxing, I don't know what's in agriculture. After all, it doesn't matter if it's 50% or 30%. Indeed, this Article 12 discusses what taxation will look like in 2010. We by this law abolish flat-rate taxation of farms because small farms paid taxes for large farms. So we eliminate this injustice and thus maintain agricultural activity in the countryside, otherwise small farms would actually close if we could call it barns or doors. The benefits of this law for 2010 are such that, insofar as it is more favourable for someone to have paid as a large farm so far, it also paid a flat rate in 2010. By taking this into account, the legislator will no longer burden anyone in 2010. However, it has legitimized the fact that small farms will be burdened. However, they will by no means pay more than they have already paid the flat rate on this income. These percentages of 30.50 in 2010 are indeed not relevant.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u364	Mr. Janko Weber, thank you very much. Mr. Bogovich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u365	Let me explain both amendments together so I won't repeat myself. I will certainly support this amendment, which we have tabled in the Slovenian People's Party to reduce this tax to 30%. We speak for both this year and next year for a simple reason. We tax compensatory payments, we tax the payments of those who produce food. In Slovenia, there are also a number of environmental subsidies received by those owners of agricultural land, where several sheep, some goats, have tractors and mulchers in the garage, and they silence them. And we don't touch these subsidies. However, we touch on those obtained by breeders who produce milk producing wheat, maize, smoked meat and the like. With these taxes, we will tax those few farms that are actually producing food today, with all the general concern for food security in the country when we want to have it. The income situation of these farms was also very clear on the last Committee on Agriculture, where Dr. Rednak of the Agricultural Institute made it very clear and showed with figures how the income situation of farms is decreasing, worse from year to year. If it gets a little better this year, we have a very bad base, as if the gross social income of two years falls by 5.8% and then by half percent, we are on a very bad basis and so on. There's something like that in agriculture. Therefore, if we really do not want these farms to come into this tax haven in the years to come and wish some young farmers a happy journey in food production and in carrying out this honorable but poorly paid and often neglected profession, these amendments would also support other Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u366	Thank you very much. Mrs. Vranitzer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u367	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me have a few data or a few information. The discussion was about the income situation of the farms, the discussion was about costs. Two types of income are generally included in the tax base of basic agricultural and basic forestry activities. One is cadastral income, the other is income from agricultural policy measures. If we're talking about cadastral income first. Catastrophe income represents a potential market income according to the type of production carried out on the farm. And this cadastral income already takes into account the costs incurred in connection with production on a particular hectare of land. This cadastral income must take account of the market situation and take account of the reduction or take account of the economic situation in the agricultural field. As a result, the cadastral income was significantly lower, although it was reduced by 36 % in 2010 according to net value added statistics. If the cadastral income in 2008 was 80 million and a half, there were 51 million and a half in 2010. That's part of the story. The second part of the story is subsidies, as they are commonly referred to as, or incomes from agricultural policy measures. We know that only so-called income subsidies are included in the tax base, not all of them. In 2009, income subsidies were paid for EUR 240 million. Of this, €113 million was taxable. But due to the system of averages that we currently have in force, the tax actually included EUR 31 million of income from agricultural policy measures. According to the bill, as is now written with the amendments included in the second reading of the law, farms that reach up to €200 of total income would do so. These are from 482, almost 483 000, 398 000 730, i.e. almost 83%, for so many farms the situation does not change because the total income of up to 200 euros is not included in the tax base at all. For further 11% of farms with cadastral income between 200 and 800 euros, their tax liability or their tax base will be reduced if they receive subsidies of approximately the same amount as they have received so far. And for the remaining taxpayers, whose total income is over €800, the situation will remain unchanged in 2010, as we have a special transitional provision for 2010. These figures show that the proposed proposal for a law without taking this amendment into account in the third global reading means that the tax base on subsidies remains at about the same level as before or decreases by around one and a half million. Therefore, they do not claim that this arrangement will impose additional burden on farms during the transitional period. It is true, however, that in the coming years, when the system becomes increasingly entrenched if the debtors do not choose to keep books, the burden on larger farms will increase, as they will include more income subsidies in the tax base. The fact is that the burden will be more fairly distributed because no one will pay the tax on the amount that he has not actually received, which is what is happening today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u368	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk asked for the floor. Anyone else want me to open up time for applications? No, just Bevk. Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u369	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I didn't want to get in touch with this item on the agenda, but yesterday, the owner of the hill farm from Gorenje Kanomlje from our municipality visited me in the office and brought me data: 680 euros in subsidies received last year. The base sent to him by the Tax Administration was almost EUR 5,000. So this law has made these things more fair and fairer, and I will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u370	Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u371	In the Slovenian People's Party, we support the fact that taxation is made after the subsidies actually received. We didn't object to that. We support and say that such taxation is correct. However, it is difficult to accept that it is fair to tax a production producing negative income. In this part of the last time, the lady talked about it, it is not the cadastral income that accounts for the poor situation in agriculture. In Europe, a European agricultural policy has been adopted, which has decided that a large proportion of the European Union budget will be allocated to agriculture, food producers, because it wants to have healthy, cheap food on the shelf and because it wants to offset the negative income on the farm through compensatory payments. In our country, we have this big problem that, instead of determining the total income in the Cadastrian income, we also add up the subsidies and there we now flatly tax these, I say flat-rate, with a certain percentage we tax these compensatory payments which are from the coverage of the loss of income on the farm. And I won't say it again, and we won't come here together. This is certainly the case in this part.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u372	Thank you very much. We can go to the vote. I am putting to the vote the amendment to Article 12 tabled by the SLS Group of Members and the SDS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. 30 votes against 44. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 44.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to Article 13 and the amendment to this Article, which has been tabled by the SLS and SDS Group. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and put an amendment to the vote. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present. The vote was 31 to 43. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded a second reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Income Act. And we are moving on to the third hearing under the urgency procedure. On Wednesday 17 November, the National Assembly held a second hearing. We've completed our second treatment. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to the amendments adopted, the proposal would be inconsistent and we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We vote on the law, I give birth to a vote on the law. Anybody want to explain their voice? Anyone else on behalf of the parliamentary group or personally? Personal? Mr Likar, on behalf of the Group of Members, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u373	Thank you very much again for your word. I might also be persuaded to do so, Madam Secretary of State, and everyone else, although I have some experience myself. However, I don't know why they jumped into the luft for homework and experts from the biotech college with Professor Stanet Kavčič, in the Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, in trade unions, if the Ministry of Finance didn't coordinate with them and didn't even follow their warnings. As it is said, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support or vote against the new Income Act. Especially because we do not want to participate in increasing the tax and administrative burdens of Slovenian farmers. Above all, we note that self-sustainment in Slovenia is getting worse today and the question arises in itself whether the Ministry of Agriculture is still pursuing the goal of producing as many home-based and healthy food as possible. Nor will we support the law because we are against the fact that the subsidy or the funds received under the common agricultural policy are imputed to the income base. We are also opposed to the changes brought by the novel, namely that farmers will have to keep a mandatory bookkeeping above the threshold now set at €7 000,500. Since we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that farmers do not have to be forced by law to have a good time, they will be able to decide for themselves whether flat-rate taxation is more favourable for them or whether income is determined on the basis of actual income or actual expenditure. Otherwise, Slovenian farmer has been considered a second-rate citizen since 1945 and has been taking more and more than it was given. Now comes the time when the farmer won't take anything else. For this reason, we will vote against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u374	Thank you very much. Mr. Jurša in his own name? Mr. Jursha, have you returned your call? No, no, no. Mr. Bogovich, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u375	We will vote alone and also in the parliamentary group against the amendment of the Income Act. In the debates, I have already tried to say that if the claim that the tax burden would not increase and would be more correctly distributed, if it could still be partially attached to this claim, I certainly do not see what we are going to achieve in this country today by hanging an additional EUR 3 million of administrative costs from various accounting services and others who will explain to the ignorant farmers how to manage this bookkeeping. There is no simplified system. From the experience that some of us, who have ever engaged in any entrepreneurship, know that every accounting service that puts you in its base that wants to do those services without having to stop 100 euros a month, is simply not that calculation. And I think we're insulting the country's state of affairs and we're not doing the right thing. We will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u376	Mr. Pukšič, an explanation of the voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u377	Thank you very much. I will go against it because with this law, the first law after the adopted budget for 2011 and 2012 we hit the first one in the pocket of the one we still have, this is the Slovenian farmer. With this law, we impose additional burdens on agriculture. Now you tell me if it is a large farm with 10 hectares, 5 hectares of fields and 5 hectares of meadows and 30 bulls. Is this a big farm? Along with Kd and the actual subsidies, it gets €7 000 181 and, if we calculate that 15 bulls per year sell, the cost was €300, it got a thousand €200, that is, a thousand €900 minus. We have imposed this law on him or you will charge him another thousand euros. That means not a thousand 900, but 3,000 Euros of an extra minus. So that's how it works. Otherwise, how is a farmer supposed to work like that, but if the country can do that?It's more negative, it's nicer, we're better. And now you also intend to destroy Slovenian agriculture in this way. Unfortunately, it was always in the country when the left parties led the country, both before communism and now the Slovenian farmer is not well-lit. And even this time, he's getting really bad at it, so I'm going to go against such a marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u378	Thank you very much. Mr. Saiovic, please explain the name in your name.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u379	But what's too much with demagogism is too much. The Slovenian farmer had the best time in history when Tito's Yugoslavia was on its way to an end. And after those times and those incomes and incomes, a lot of them are staked. What Mr Pukšič said is an example of higher mathematics. There's three people on the bus, five of them going down. What does that mean? That two of them have to come back to make the bus empty again. [[...]] [[Laughing in the hall]] That's the trick, if someone works with a loser, then they don't pay taxes, and that's why it's valuable to keep books. [[...]] This will show and prove that the income position of the Slovenian farmer is indeed poor. It is also shown that some who work in the interest of Slovenian agriculture deliberately support only large farms and destroy with a fig in the pocket of a small farmer. Taxation, as it is now, was criminal to small farmers. As Mr Bevk said, I know the case from the Poljanska Valley, 12 hectare farm, most of it has been healed. Only 2 hectares are processed, and the man paid a nice large sum of money for those farms, and some of them in Slovenia, which are doing well, were able to pay less tax. And the lobby, which is in Slovenia, I will not tell which party, present for 15 years, has been doing just that – protecting, privileged large farms to the detriment of small, mountain, hilly ones, which are most valuable for Slovenia to preserve the countryside.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u380	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u381	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I don't mean to tear up old inn bars in the Hall of the National Assembly, but I will seriously say that in most parts I support, I have said this several times, in the majority part I support this law also because of this average, which was certainly wrong in the past years and here we are, probably I was around, probably one of those who we have been for quite some time in these benches, we certainly made the wrong decision when we did. Conscientious or unconscious. I don't know exactly, I don't remember that, of course. But before that, I told the Secretary of State that it was not at all a matter of substantially more or substantially less income coming into the state budget. That's about flattening. I agree with that. However, we are charging, of course, to Slovenian farmers, and to everyone, whether you smile or not, about EUR 3 million in additional costs. But these three million will not get the state budget, but will be received by individuals who are just dealing with accounting as we have seen today for notaries to get on average again every 20,000 euros a year due to the adoption of another law. Thank you very much. That is why I am forced to vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-23-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u382	Thank you very much. We can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. It was 42 votes against 28. [[The vote was 42.]] [[28 versus.]] The law has been passed. The Legislative and Legal Service should prepare a consolidated text of the Income Act. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 42 to 18. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 18.]] Since the law has been regarded as a hybrid, I propose that we adopt an additional decision proposed by the Committee on Finance: a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act, the first hearing submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 40 votes against 2. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] The decision is adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much. Good night.
