ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 32nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Silva Črnugelj, mag. Franz Žnidaršič, Miro Friday, mag. Andrej Vizjak, Roberto Battelli, Milan Gumzar, Anton Urh – from 16.30 onward, Dr. Peter Verlič and Janez Ribič. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 32nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the 28th meeting. Ten. 2010 I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you received by reference. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 63 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 32nd Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, the Council of Ministers shall act in accordance with the provisions of the Act on Radiotelevision of Slovenia. 32 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank shall be 26. Ten. 2010 submitted a request to the National Assembly for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. On this request, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth prepared a proposal for a decree on the invitation to a legislative referendum on the Radio Television Act of Slovenia and submitted it to the National Assembly for consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the President [[...]] Procedural, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! This time we are once again witnessing that you have dismissed the motion for proposals, and that a key interpretation, presentation of the request for a legislative referendum, will be given by those who are intimately and publicly opposed to this request. 32 Members of the SDS and SNS MPs, and then the independent Member of Magajna, then a member of the Social Democrats, have submitted a request for a legislative referendum. With exactly the same address, you have called for an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, and yet you have prevented all of us who have submitted this request from presenting the request and from discussing the request below. On behalf of the applicants, the Chair of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport will receive the text, which, at some stage in the process of technology, has been involved in the drafting of the decision. This must be completely confused with common sense. We want the speakers to be given us in the context of the presentation of the item, the time to present the item and, of course, the appropriate time to discuss the debate between Members and Members. I am convinced that the president of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, who opposed this request for a referendum, cannot be the one who will tell what the applicants are about, the initiatives that will be here, we simply think, and we do not have a minute to present the point and the debate. However, those opposed to the National Assembly have a total of 35 minutes to speak on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport. I would also like to remind you that, in this Committee on Culture, Education and Sport, representatives of all the parliamentary groups should be, and if you have already given the floor to the president for the debate, to share that time with the committee of the parliamentary groups, and I propose that this proposal should be given additional time to present the item and to discuss it for those original applicants you have released, so that we can also discuss this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. I regret to repeat in some way the exercise that we have repeated several times, and I am anxious to set time for your opening presentation and then I cannot agree with the time to discuss it as a proposal. In this regard, I must first find that the National Assembly is not discussing the request for a referendum, but in fact the consequences of this requirement, whether it is a motion for a decision, which we have on the table or a call for a referendum, or a proposal for a decision that the Constitutional Court may decide on a possible referendum, which we do not have and will probably not have on the table. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, therefore, the actual proposer is the one who submits a motion for a decision on the referendum and this is, of course, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth and this motion for a decision is presented by the President of this Committee. If you, in your request for a referendum, had also attached a motion for a decree, you would, of course, be proposing. However, since you have not done so, the matter is quite clear that it is therefore a motioner, a motion for a decree, which is the working body of the mother and not the group of signatories that requested the referendum. So the matter here is quite clear and I can't agree with your proposal. Thank you very much. More procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When you argue your refusal, I would like to ask you to refer to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which make this impossible. There is no provision in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to reject the request for discussion. There is no such point in the Rules of Procedure and it would be very good that this draft request for a referendum would not be taken as a political account. We had, for example, a request under the law on legal representation in this mandate. There you well wrote in your call that both the member or vice-president of the Committee on Internal Policy and the proposer should have a proportionate time. You've both given us time. Both in the introduction, in the presentation and then in the debate. That was in your term of office, in this term of office of the National Assembly. This was held on 8 April 2009 at the 9th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I would also like to remind you that when we look at these comparisons, for example, even with the previous mandate, the previous Government took ten minutes to request a referendum and this government took fifty-five minutes to request a referendum. So even after this salary, when already and if you are already limiting you are not somehow proportional to these requirements. And apparently it is not true what President Pahor said that the Referendum Act or this referendum requirement is irrelevant. Obviously, this is the Referendum Act, if that's how you put those who are and who have the right to speak on behalf of the applicants and also the government that it is a strategic law. And if this is a strategic law with such a allocation of time, then we ask the applicants that this time should be allocated to those whom we have made this point with the title, as you have called for in the request for an extraordinary meeting, also proposed. Otherwise, this is exclusively about the politicisation and usurpation of power in this National Assembly and for the full, I will say the sui generis interpretation of the rules of procedure and the rights we Members have in this National Assembly. One rule applies to one case, the other rules apply to another, the referendum on the same topic shall have one ten minutes once fifty-five minutes and so on. In these matters, be somewhat proportionate and also allocate those half-hours for the debate and five minutes for the presentation of the point of call for a referendum to those twenty-two members of the National Assembly who have signed this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I have to do it again because you told me to refer to the Rules of Procedure, I tell you, paragraph 66, first paragraph, says: "At the beginning of the consideration of each item of the agenda, the applicant or his representative may submit a supplementary explanation." Once again, today, the subject that we are going to discuss is not a requirement, we are not going to discuss it The requirement is an enforceable fact, only with the fact that more than 30 Members have been signed, we are not voting on it, we are voting on a proposal for an act and this proposal for an act is a proposal for a decree. [[...]] This motion for a decree has drawn up a mother's working body and not a proposal for a referendum, and therefore the applicants for a referendum are not the applicants of the decision and therefore cannot have a complementary explanation. That's the current solution, that's how we've always done it. I will tell you this also when the call for a referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulation of the Status of Citizens of Other Successor States of the former SFRJ was the motion for a decision on the Constitutional Court of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, which had the status of proposer and no one else. In the case of amendments and additions to the Law on Lawyers, he was a motion for a decision relating to the Constitutional Court’s opinion, Mr Mag. Borut Saiovic and there we actually made a certain exception, perhaps we should not have given the applicant the floor because it was a little unusual for the decision to be presented, but not this requirement. And here's the only thing where maybe I've been inconsistent and now I won't be because I see this getting revenge. He's getting a lot of revenge, and we're not doing that until the Rules of Procedure are amended. Under the Law on the Public Sector Salaries System and the Judicial Service, the drafter of the decision was the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. In the legislative referendum on the Law on the ratification of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia, the proposal for a resolution on the referendum was tabled by the Members and, in accordance with the agreement reached at the College, the chairman of the SD Group Bojan Kontic and SDS Member Janez Janša on behalf of the proposer were the members. So, in fact, your request cannot be met and we are moving on to the continuation of the meeting. I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, the president of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, mag. Majdi Purity for further explanation of the motion for a decree. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 13th urgent meeting, on 29 October, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered the request of the Group of Members and Members to call for a legislative referendum on the Radio Television Act of Slovenia and, pursuant to Article 169a and Article 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted a proposal for a legislative referendum on the Radio Television Act of Slovenia and sent it to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption. If anyone has forgotten, Article 169a states that the decree conveys the mother’s working body to the National Assembly. Article 171 speaks of the procedure for dealing with this decision. On 26 October, 32 Members and Members submitted to the National Assembly a request for an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, which was adopted by the National Assembly on 20 October. On the basis of Article 22, paragraph 1, of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, the National Assembly shall hold a referendum within seven days of the submission of the request for a referendum. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 30 of the said Act, the Act on the Call for Referendum sets out the type of referendum, the act to be decided at the referendum, the text of the question to be raised at the referendum, the date of the referendum and the day of the vote at the referendum. All the requirements mentioned above also contain the proposed decree. In accordance with Article 33 of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative from the date of the call, that is, from 4 November 2010, until the date of the vote shall not exceed 30 days and not more than one year. The date of the vote, until which more than 45 days have elapsed since the date of the referendum, shall be adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the Members present. In view of the above, the National Assembly may, by a simple majority, determine for the day of the vote a minimum of 30 days and a maximum of 45 days from the date of the invitation to tender. On this basis, Sunday 12 December 2010 shall be set for the day of the vote. The Act of Call for Referendum shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 30 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. I have read on the plan what you have also received in writing, on the assumption that I will not properly present what the Committee has instructed me to do on behalf of my mother's working body at today's meeting. I read it from the first to the last point. The time for discussion, however, will show what else could have been heard at the meeting of the parent’s working body. I therefore propose that the decree, in the form I have presented it, be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory presentation of the opinion. Maja Shirca, Minister of Culture, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u8	Your Honor! In today's debate, we will probably deepen the conduct of the law that you have confirmed in both the National Assembly and the Council of State, but it is obvious that, according to the request for a subsequent legislative referendum, too many things remain unclear. Indeed, the motioners believe that the RTV Slovenia Act was number 1, which is now in force, confirmed in 2005 in the context of the direct decision-making of the electorate and the electorate. It is clear here that the then referendum in 2005 was in fact a public debate on the law, which was written down quickly, overnight and which was wanted to be made in the procedure by emergency procedure, as if in a state of emergency, and which was for some opinional and media experts, in general from the Council of Europe is called a law which means a recipe for disaster. The public debate took place at the time, while the current law, which you believe should be decided again through the institute of the referendum, prepared patiently, in dialogue, was not always uniform and not always unanimous, but also with reservations, but followed the concept set by this government and, in fact, by the professional public when it did not agree with the law adopted in 2005, and it challenged a number of systemic solutions, especially those that diminished not only the reputation, but also the ratings of RTV Slovenia and changed its autonomy, which is that it needs to be changed. Therefore, the Coalition Treaty also unequivocally stated that we would change the law, so we took time and allowed many public debates, not only within this house, not only within the National Assembly, but also within the State Council, not only within the Ministry, the government, but also within the profession itself. It must therefore be said that we have prepared, slowly, patiently, in dialogue, a law which I believe is good that has opened up dialogue with various actors, after all with trade unions, has forced compromises that have not brought down the basic concept. This, however, was, as much independence as possible, press credibility and transparency in the public service, I stress, in the public service. For this reason, I have to challenge many of the issues which are presented in the proposal for a reference, such as the obvious fact that the status regime of RTV Slovenia is questionable. This observation is, I forgive myself, but it is literally ridiculous because it speaks of either that the candidates of the marriage referendum have not read or that the provisions do not understand well enough. In this respect, such discussions can also be useful and will continue to be useful, but it is only a shame that we have to go back to the alphabet for things that not only Slovenia knows but also legal, but especially European. And the European space, honourable Members and Members, has very different status forms, depending on the cultural, social and political traditions of individual countries. In most cases, at least 90% of these companies are limited companies or companies, they can be companies, they can be foundations, they can be societies, they can be different. But also the form of sui generis, which is juggling, as if it were something so specific and impossible, is also known in Slovenian space in legal forms and is not foreign. We therefore have the feeling that the motion for a referendum is more a fear of autonomy, which is written in the last article of this law as chalk. For, I stress, and this needs to be said in the following and again confirmed, RTV Slovenia bears the highest protected values – independence, the public, national and cultural importance. And inside of it, we moved, we thought about it, and we followed it. And I believe that with all the evidence that this decree is making, you will no doubt consider it yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u9	Procedurally, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Before you go through – I speak on the basis of Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure – to present the views of the groups of Members, let me – at that time – justify the statement made by the applicants. On Wednesday, 18 February 2009, the 7th extraordinary meeting, the Call for a Legislative Referendum, an additional explanation of the applicant. Second, Wednesday, 8. 4. 2009, Request for invitation to tender for a legislative referendum, supplementary explanation of the applicant. Third, Monday, 3. 5. 2010, Proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum, supplementary explanation of the applicant. Always in these three cases, unfortunately we were no longer able to find them, a perfectly identical case. And I think it would be right and fair that, on the basis of these findings, the applicant would also have the opportunity to present his position within five minutes. I'm talking to evidence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. I must remind you again that I have listed all these referenda earlier on request, and where the candidates for the referendums are not "requesters" on request, but is the committee, so the introductory position is presented by the usual committee or the chairman or the chairman of the committee. However, you spoke about the referendum initiative, which is another story, and the assembly must discuss the initiative itself and accept it or not, and the requirements are not addressed by the National Assembly and must implement it in the form of a decision on the referendum invitation or in the form of a decision to submit the proposal to the Constitutional Court. So much for that. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Please, Mr Jerovšek, do you have any comments other than laughter? You don't. Thank you. [[advertising from the hall]] No, I may have a bad conscience somewhere else, but it might be right to have a sense of compliance with the elementary rules, and that would apply to someone other than you. Okay. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Today we are deciding on the call for a referendum on the Radio Television Act. This time, the request of the signatories from the Slovenian Democratic and Slovenian National Party and the Member of Magajna will not be heard by the Constitutional Court, which means that no shadow of doubt in the coalition has fallen on this request for a referendum. The legislative and legal service has explicitly stated that the referendum will not have any anti-constitutional consequences, which means that the rejection of the law and thus the maintenance of the Public Institute of Radiotelevision will not affect the functioning of the Public Institute of Radiotelevision of Slovenia in any way. It would therefore make sense for us to hold this referendum later, on a flowery Sunday, April 17, 2011, as proposed by the Committee on Education and Sport and as we propose again with our amendments, not 12. 12th this year, as the coalition wants to achieve. Legal experts have also attached to our opinion, for example, Dr. Kavčič, who says that the later implementation of the referendum would make sense, especially since it is now clear that in the next few months, two, three months, several more referendums will be submitted, such as the Small Work Act, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Family Code and some other Pahor Modernisation. If we know that this is likely to happen, then it is only right that the coalition avoids additional costs being rational and cost-effective and that it supports our proposal to change the date of the referendum and that it also supports this referendum day initiative. This is possible by law, only two-thirds of Members must support such a proposal. If the coalition is rational, it will listen to the proposal and will not repeat mistakes when it has ignored and listened to everyone who has given it different views and different opinions in all key laws. It would be good if the coalition tried to reduce the consequences of its actions if it could no longer eliminate them. Of course, it is not possible to impose the cost on those who will suffer the consequences of the accident and not on those who have caused the accident. This is government and coalition. We have heard Minister Majdo Shirca say many times, even today in a presentation that we have not read the Radio Television Act, we have not understood that we do not want to understand it, and many other insulting and underestimating behaviours have been consumed, which are not at all suitable for establishing any kind of cultural dialogue between politicians or between politicians and proponents and civil society. He probably wants to tell everyone the following: we drafters and lawmakers, that is, really – a new policy, we read and understand, and you who oppose the law do not understand or understand it. How can someone who is at the head of culture and cultural dialogue be so demeaning to stress? This can only be said by someone who does not accept a different opinion and who looks at the proposed solution and who in any way wants his solution to be taken as dogma as dry gold. This also applies to everything else that Really proposes. The minister has repeatedly said that her law on Radiotelevision is apolitical. We can also see this as an indication that the current law proposed by the previous government is political. That this was written by experts and the previous one, but it also showed that the key writer was only one person, while other media professionals slowly stepped out of the expert group. But how many people wrote the law is not essential, and quality is essential. Now the law in force is good, it has passed the referendum decision, and perhaps even more important, the dissatisfactions, including Minister Shirca, among them, in her words, the recipe for disaster, have not even been sent to the Constitutional Court for assessment in five years, much to say about the seriousness of the Minister's claim. The law we have before us is required for personnel clearance. Let me remind you that until recently, the Member of the Social Democrats, Andrej Magajn, at the Odessa, has made it clear that none of the laws of the Pahor Coalition has been subjected to as much pressure as it has been for RTV, and that the parliamentary corridors are talking about major changes in RTV and that the personnel changes will not be too noticeable, a real legal framework needs to be found. Well, that's why a new law is needed. Because if the replacements were to be made too dry, the cleaning would be too obvious. President Pahor says the Radiotelevision Act is completely irrelevant. What about his human resources paradigm? Who will not be replaced and what will be essential to human resources decisions. Perhaps in addition to the opposition, one might wonder why we are speeding up on the media freedom scales, but it is interesting that there is no petition in the air, and that we do not need any delegation from Europe to examine the situation, to teach us, to assess whether we are more Azerbaijan or more Denmark. This year, Pahor’s coalition completely renovated the leadership and organs of Radiotelevision. We have a new programming and supervisory board in which they are guided by a tested independent expert with a prominent left political pedigree: Matjaž Pikalo and Lenart Šetinc. A new director of the RTV Institute was placed with a lot of noise, where the previous one had to be blown off only a month before the extension of the mandate. Many of us have followed this embarrassing, cultural and cultivated approach. They're also the new director of Radio and Television. However, the replacements need to be expanded, deepened and cemented. Changes are also needed in official places and elsewhere. It is therefore necessary to modernise both the RTV Council and the RTV Supervisory Committee even more. For example, when the members of the programme board from the quota of listeners and viewers, 16, were replaced by a representative of the National Council for Culture, a body that is politically appointed. On a proposal from the Government, this body elects a National Assembly, i.e. a policy. This is the body that directs cultural policy and a representative or even a member of that body will now implement this cultural policy directly as a member of the RTV body and only RTV. This chain doesn't mean anything apolitical. On the contrary. It means the direct application of politics and will have similar effects for RTV as networking in the privatisation of the economy. The new law is intended to play an important role in the so-called civil society, united in various formations, in which the current coalition has deposited a number of indispensable personnel, which are presented in public as independent experts and authorities, who are solely for public interest and well-being, and in fact are the full transmission of the troedin of the party in all its emerging forms: SD, Zares and LDS. Many of these are, for example, social organisations. Their member will be a new member of the RTV Council and will probably replace the members of the programming board from the audience and audience quota. And who has the key word in this regard for social organizations? You will not believe – the Olympic Committees of Slovenia. His representatives assume all the key functions in this regard of social organisations, and we are again with Janez Kocjančič, former president of one of the historical forms of SD and former President of the RTV Council. This is this civil society. The more "orto" it's almost impossible. And there's one more thing. The main staff of the Social Democrats soon after the start of Pahor's government's term of office praised more than 100 people on the key list, in fact more than 600 people to be replaced, and I am sure that there are still some unfinished projects. Public RTV is right at the top of the unfinished projects of the Pahor government. Because people will have to be constantly told that it is not just as bad as people feel. That somewhere else it's worse and that it would be even worse for us if there were another, more working, more efficient government, and not the one with Olympus. What makes a new marriage necessary? Due to the programme developed by the RTV authorities, which are now completely renovated by the coalition measure, it certainly does not. Nor is it due to ratings or poor financial situation or any other rational reason. The Institute fulfils all its obligations to viewers and listeners. If not, the coalition may act without amending the law. The same is true if marriage is in poor financial condition, but it is not. Although the subscription was four years old until last year, it did not change, the institution had no financial problems. It has achieved its own shares or shares of its own or domestic production; minorities have their own programme, ratings and obedience, despite the increasing supply of all kinds of electronic media and so on. So, why does a new marriage still need to be done? The answer is on its own. Because RTV has a constant source of revenue. Some 90 million euros a year is collected from subscriptions and now all this money has been allocated to the public service, to the mission of the institution. It won't be like this from now on. While the electric counter will remain the basis for the payment of the subscription, the project will be supported by other private stakeholders, most of them in the form of silent companies, rather than in a number of other cases in companies owned by the majority state. In order to be able to make such transfers legally, there is a need for a statutory change in the law, a change in the radiotelevision. This is probably why in this expert group there was also a lawyer of POP TV, who is at least in the information field, in films, sports, advertising and elsewhere a competitor of public television. It was for everything to continue to be legally coordinated and regulated. This concept of new RTV is identical in this area, as was the concept of stickers. In both cases, the law provided for a compulsory duty to be charged for stickers on the basis of a registration plate and for RTV on the basis of an electric counter. There were signs of Cetis and Mirage, here with programs and frequencies other manufacturers or producers, in particular or even exclusively those from the ultra and infrared spectrum, but perhaps something beyond the programming and financial scheme will also invite the Film Scheme to agree. When Janša’s government removed unnecessary stickers, Mirage filed an action, and received a considerable compensation. And the next time the RTV Act is amended, such points will be significantly higher and the damages will be significantly higher. In order to avoid this, the law in the referendum should be rejected as the last instance. In addition, the client Zares, a party of the Minister of Culture, has recently staged a real crackdown on state-owned companies with money. Let us just remember the intervention in telecommunications, which was necessary from the economic where they belong, to be forcefully transferred to the higher education centre, despite the rebellion of some young people in the coalition. Remember the recent operations in Post, in energy, or in the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning and Disposal of Nuclear Power Plant Krka. Wherever there is free money, profit or a constant source of income, there is really trying with sui generis interventions and solutions. It's all about money. Let me remind you again, RTV has a constant source of revenue – RTV subscription. And in this case, the sui generis of the law, if not rejected, will remain only the revenue side, the compulsory payment of the RTV subscription, the cost component, this being true consumption, will be left to other private interests. Despite the fact that this government is unable to provide legal and social rights to its citizens through the Constitution, it is expanding the activities of the institution with some Yugoslav studies for communities, to which we owe nothing under the Constitution. While the state, as owner of the new Stellar, will not pay workers or contributions, we are opening new rights here and, as a result, probably a new budget burden. Whether this will go to the detriment of domestic programmes is only a matter of time. In order to maybe support the educational programmes of the Slovenian for foreigners or those from the former Yugoslavia who have not yet sufficiently learned our language, our ministers and the President of the Government do not think about this, nor do those who have offered to accept the declaration on the policy of the Republic of Slovenia to the new national communities, by which they wish to create some legal basis for the introduction of the YU speech and video programme on our radio television. The management of RTV is also significantly increased. Now we have one director, a director-general, and a director of Radio and Television, and after a new proposal there will be five, five directors and five cabinets and more. It's probably not going to be more expensive for an extended administration. And more pearls like that would be found in the law we're sending to the referendum. As I said in the introduction, we propose that the referendum be held on a flowery Sunday, April 17th, next year, when or when citizens vote on the same day on the first package of Pahor's modernisations. We propose not to waste time or money, we propose to set a referendum day, to join electoral campaigns and decide what we will accept from these modernisations and what we will reject. I hope that this time there will be enough wisdom in the coalition to finally listen to us for once in this mandate and support our amendments, which have been tabled and which have just been shared. Be as bold as your President, your Prime Minister Borut Pahor, has repeatedly put on your soul. And we will probably confirm and confirm the date of the referendum with a two-thirds agreement on this audacity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Honourable President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The right of Members of the SDS, the Slovenian National Party, and Mr Magajne was guaranteed by the Constitution for a legislative referendum. At about half of this mandate, we can find that the parliamentary opposition does not miss a virtually no chance of obstructing the legislative process by means of a variety of other legitimate means and thereby weakening the role of the National Assembly as the highest body of the legislative authority. Therefore, over the past two years, we have seen several attempts to obstruct the very important procedures in the National Assembly, from blocking the adoption of the 2008 accounts and obstructing Croatia's membership in NATO to initiatives to assess the constitutionality of the laws adopted, the accusations made by the President of the Republic, the attempt to dismiss the President of the National Assembly and could still be listed. In the Group of Members, we really doubt that the legislative referendum on the adopted law on RTV is the right path for verification and a sincere attempt to reopen the debate on legal solutions. We are at the threshold of adopting other important key reforms and finding solutions to the exit from the economic and financial crisis, which would make it possible for us to expect the constructive behaviour of the parliamentary opposition, which often makes it clear to the coalition that it is dealing with itself. In the Group of Members, we are really convinced that in this case the referendum is an irrational, unnecessary and harmful request of the opposition, which obviously cannot possibly be overcome by the 2005 legislative referendum, while the then-haired coalition is successful, in short, that it cannot get over the change of Grims' law on RTV. At the time, the law was opposed by a wide range of experts, academics, interested public and especially journalists, including the International Federation of Journalists. This time it's very different. Indeed, the newly passed law on RTV has not mobilised even about such a wide circle of opponents. The law, which will be the subject of a referendum review, did not arise overnight. It has not been written by one person; it has been participated by the professional public; it is the product of many coordinations of the widest possible public; it does not politicise; it does not transform RTV into a share society; and it does not divide citizens into first-class and second-class citizens. This law does not exclude, but also includes those who have so far not had the chance to participate in the design of a public service programme. If the Grims Act on RTV, which was the subject of a referendum review five years ago, produced only a few development-oriented solutions and did not introduce modern services and content delivery methods, it represents a significant move in the organisation of the public service and, consequently, offers new, more flexible options for the operation and development of the public service, both at the level of governance and at the technical and technological level. Five years ago, you deceived and promised a better program and a lower RTV contribution. Now we can confirm that none of this has happened. Moreover, the public service is increasingly drowning in a vicious circle of commercialisation, inadequacy, and less and less manage the specific tasks it has as a public service and are far from purely commercial. The promises of the then ruling coalition resembled the Butales. Let me read an illustration from this account, some lines that well symbolize what we are saying today or the situation we are in. "Three hours walk," so says the story, "three hours walk on a deserted Sunday lies you who call it a place. In the middle of the village there is a brown mollusk called the stream. Both places are surrounded by huts called houses. Two, three houses have floors, they call them towns. The name of this village is Butale." However, the SDS and SNS again shamelessly mislead the public by listing the non-truths of the recently adopted RTV Act, namely that the law entails the politicisation of RTV, to transform the public institution into a shareholder society, in order to lead to greater commercialisation and privatisation. Without any shame, we are once again witnessing allegations of untruths, of lies, for this time, of not knowing the law, but not being able to speak. The so-called Grims Act, which was not written by a group of experts, but by a Member of the then largest ruling party without professional references in the field of media, increased the government's political control over the management of the institution through the composition of the supervisory and programme council. In accordance with Grims’ law, the National Assembly has so far appointed 21 of the 29 members of the Programme Committee. With the new law, we have taken away the decisive influence on public television from the party policy, as according to the new National Assembly it will appoint only one third or five members to the world and will be selected on a public invitation to tender for NGOs. We ask who is afraid of leaving politics and political influence from RTV. Who really has a political influence on RTV right now? We have also reduced the political impact by retaining only one representative, one of the three representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, according to the new supervisory council, and one of the three representatives is appointed by the Public Finance Supervisory Commission of the National Assembly, chaired by the parliamentary opposition. We have returned control of the operation of RTV to the public by means of a new law, as has been done in other European countries, unlike some of the solutions in Grims' law, which have not found many cases in the European space. It is only through this law that we again ensure a direct and political neutral, interesting representation of various segments of civil society, as they have again received their voice from relevant social groups. RTV Slovenia, I repeat, will not be a stock company, nothing is hidden in the title or anywhere else, the conspiracy theory does not apply to us. The proposed status is clear. RTV operates under the Public Administrations Act, while only those provisions of the Company Act are applied which constitute greater liability for operators and greater transparency. It is only clear to the elect why anyone would object to a solution that protects public interest, while providing more responsibility in directing television. And even commercialisation will not, on the contrary, now RTV with its programme is becoming increasingly commercialised, resulting in the loss of viewers, the market, the software view of RTV is unsuccessful, it decreases the quality of content, and the ratings do not increase despite the desire. In contrast to all existing laws in this area, it is now clear that sanctions are imposed on the administration in the event of failure to comply with the public service and the achievement of the demanding shares of programme content in order to prevent commercialisation and maintain the quality of the public service. The distinction between public service and market activity is clearly defined and prevents different interpretations as now, for example, when a concert activity is referred to as a purely market activity. If we want to enable the independent functioning of journalists and other programming partners on RTV, they cannot be subject to a system in which the frameworks and baselines are set by each government. Let us not forget that, until a different regime, which is not possible without their consent, the same jobs remain in force, the provisions of existing collective agreements and the law on the public sector wage system still apply to them, and that part of the opposition obviously does not want to change. The SDS and SNS clearly believe that RTV already has excellent working conditions and is at the side of the most modern public service in the European Union. Allow a brief consideration to be given to the desired and expected staff cleaning operations, which, according to one of the disillusioned Members, should be widely discussed in the parliamentary corridors. It's a waste of guidance, because I'm asking you and I want answers, two years now this coalition has been in power. Tell me who was released in two years. Who was removed in two years? Who was politically disqualified in RTV? Has anyone been in two years? Today I want you to state this, I think the session is meant for this, and we'll see if it's true. Even more. The mandates were extended to all directors, despite all irregularities identified by the Supervisory Board, the Court of Auditors, despite the impeccable contracts with twenty-four emoluments and the desire of Mr Guze, that, on the basis of the success of advertising during the World Cup, he would personally be awarded a €70 000 prize. Let me conclude by saying that the referendum, according to our Group of Members, is unnecessary, does not contribute to efforts to find solutions to broader political consensus and unity at a time when we would need it in Slovenian society and not to seek new development paradigms. The referendum will be the wrong sign, the wrong message to the public that politics is not known, cannot be negotiated, does not want to agree on anything so to speak, so in the Group of Members, we will not support the decision to call for a subsequent legislative referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we oppose the referendum on the Law on RTV Slovenia. In a time of social and economic crisis, during a time of crisis of ethical values, when obviously devoted individuals without consequences are allowed exactly everything, at a time when most citizens face the criteria of a dual legal state, when some are subject to different rules than others, we do not think this is the right time for such a referendum. All attention, energy and time should be devoted to solving real and everyday problems in life. Corruption, nepotism, informal connections, payment discipline, non-payment of salaries, contributions and could even be listed. These are rockets that consume our country. But before us is a decree on the call for a referendum on the RTV Slovenia Act if I return to today's topic. In the Slovenian People's Party we are convinced that now, after the adoption of the new law on RTV Slovenia, we have the most independent state media in the world. In order to complete the RTV, we will probably have to publish an international invitation to tender because in Slovenia we probably do not have such an independent staff meeting the requirements of independence after so many amendments to this law. We can't get rid of the questions that are constantly on our heads, either, why the law on RTV Slovenia should also be amended every time the government replaces. More than obvious only so that RTV can become prey to every single current power. So satiro aside. The new Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia is completely unnecessary and bad. The law introduces a completely new and special legal form of public law of particular cultural and national importance. We do not yet know this form in Slovenia. It's some kind of experiment, which, in our opinion, is irresponsible. Finally, most journalists are also opposed to such an experiment, which advocates that RTV Slovenia continue to maintain the status of the public institution and that employees maintain the status of public servants. This shows support for the referendum by the Committee of the Association of Journalists of RTV Slovenia and the latest outcome of the survey carried out between journalists of the Institute between 8 and 10 June by coordination of press unions, which brings together 8 representative unions. The survey showed that the transformation of RTV Slovenia into a separate legal person of special cultural and national importance, as set out in the law, supports 22.9% of the people and opposes 77.71% of the journalists questioned. The proposal that employees in the office would no longer be public servants was supported by 33.12% of respondents and 66.88% against them. The derogation from the status of the public institution in the new so-called special provision of sui generis raises questions as well as the status of employees. According to the bill, they will no longer be public servants. Such a definition departs from the definition under the Public Servants Act, which defines a public servant as an individual who is in the public sector's work and relationship. In addition to public authorities and administrations of local self-government, public agencies, public funds, public institutions and public economic institutions are also part of the public sector if they are indirect users of the public budget. It's RTV, of course. Who is and who is not a civil servant cannot be the subject of the solution of an area law. In several articles, the law refers to the exercise of public service. Who should do the public service if not the civil servants? If they are not public, they must do something else, but if they are to perform the public service, as stated in the law, they are public servants. The Ombudsman was also contacted by the Association of Cultural and Artistic Creators, who claim that the exemption of employees from the public servants system would mean a return to an old state and, sooner or later, also a real burial of content, which, as stated by the drafter of the law, is not of market interest. So these are a number of artistic types, a wide range of educational content, children's and youth shows, documentary types, a range of cultural and informational types, perhaps just entertainment and sports shows. Let me do it again in the end. In the Slovenian People's Party, we estimate that the law is weak and unnecessary and we have always opposed its adoption, and also because of other, more crucial problems in the country we do not support the request for a referendum. However, since the request for the invitation to tender for the subsequent legislative referendum has submitted with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia a sufficient number of Members required, we will not oppose the proposal for a legislative referendum on the RTV Slovenia Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by mag. Your Clavor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In the DeSUS Group, we respect this legitimate and democratic right, which was served under the legislative procedure by the proposer of a request for a referendum on the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. On the basis of the provisions of the Constitution, the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, as well as the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly must present a referendum representing the democraticity of the legislative procedure in the Republic of Slovenia. In the Group of Members, we respect this and we will support the decree. However, I would like to say that in anticipation of the 14th referendum in a single country, we cannot go beyond talking about the meaning and financial implications of the referendum, not only that, but most of it has been carried out so far. In fact, in the history of our independent young country, we had only a few referendums where participation was so high that we can safely claim that the will of the people or the electoral beneficiaries was expressed in this majority. It was a plebiscite, it was a referendum on Slovenia's integration into the European Union and NATO. We are already used to low electoral participation in the referendums, so we must not be surprised by the possible poor electoral participation at the referendum on 12 December this year, as envisaged when we decide on the RTV law. In fact, there is a fact that voters perceive the essence of the referendum as the overriding of the opinion of the political non-conclusions of the legislative apparatus on them. Such perception is not good, of course, but the fact is that the content and decision they are given to judge are not taken as essential for the quality of their daily lives. Today, most of the population is more interested in and concerned about economic and social existence. This confirms the general atmosphere in the country, as well as the daily calls to our parliamentary group. In the coming year, referendums are being announced, which will decide on the things that will be marked and will be important for several generations. Therefore, we estimate that this referendum will not seem so important to voters compared to the ones we have announced, in our opinion, that they could be harmed in any way by the adoption of the RTV law. At the same time, I would also like to express my surprise at the fact that we may be somewhat wasteful in our conduct, that we want a referendum during the financial and economic crisis, which our country and most citizens and citizens, as well as other residents and residents, are not spared at all, and the budget, and thus also the taxpayers, is still subject to the costs of the referendum, this year's 8 million and once again in the coming year. If the predictions of the promising referendums are fulfilled, they do not lead anywhere but to the additional pangs of human rights. And it is up to those who propose a referendum to judge whether they can justify such a waste to the people at a time when the questionable existence of a large part of the Slovenes and Slovenes is at stake. Five years ago, we had a referendum on the applicable law on RTV. Today, the buyout was about 40% of the participation and the stick, for a few percent, the difference in favour of the enforcement of the law in that the national audience had fallen to an extremely low level, the public media house had lost quality co-workers, in the house the government had both a financial and a crisis of management functions. As a result, in our parliamentary group, we have assessed that changes are needed and that a comprehensive, new image of public broadcasting is needed. This image must reflect political and economic independence, the provision of financial resources for the communication of quality and broadband programmes and their content and, of course, a high level of public control. In our group, we have also ruled that the law, which has been approved both in the National Assembly and in the National Council, makes all this possible in the context of the transformation of the national. In the course of the discussions so far, enough has been said and everything necessary to understand the subject and to take a decision on or against the law. Today, the same content already stated will be repeated between the conflicting and binding arguments of both sides representing the people. We therefore believe in the parliamentary group that the law provides RTV with more autonomy, more transparency and a clear distinction between basic, fundamental activities in the public interest and commercial activities. This also allows for a special status regime which will include the separate legal personality of public law of specific national and cultural importance through an economic society with restrictions on ownership and the establishment of a state and the application of legislation applicable to public institutions. In addition, the statutory structure of the functions and responsibilities of the management and management bodies and supervision of the representation of civil society in the main body of RTV play a major role in this regard. However, it seems to us that there will be a problem with the status of employees, as they will play an important role in the construction of their status and rights and the obligations of the employment relationship through a new collective agreement concluded by the Management Board with the prior agreement of the Supervisory Board and representative unions employed on RTV. In our Group of Members, we believe that the matter of marriage is very difficult. We are therefore afraid that the majority of citizens and citizens will rely only on campaign messages when deciding on the fate of the law, which means that the outcome of the referendum can reflect the choice of the political sex and not the substantive judgment of the importance of the law. The last time we confirmed and adopted a new law in our parliamentary group was that it was suitable both for Radiotelevision and for its audiences and viewers. That's what I want to say in the end. Today it is on the agenda of the Proposal for a Decree on the Call for a Legislative Referendum on the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia, whether we decide whether or not to do so. I told you my position or our position. It would not be right for us to discuss the content again today, but not the content, which is also the proposal of this Decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, Madam Minister with colleagues! RTV is one of the most important public services in the country. As a result, the public is the one who has to say about the transformation of RTV, especially when politics clearly shows great appetite for the political, ideological and commercial ownership of RTV. In the Slovenian National Party, through the process of addressing and adopting the law on RTV Slovenia, we have clearly pointed out some unacceptable and irregularities. First of all, it is important for the Slovenian National Party that we organize our own, Slovenian national radio television in the country of Slovenia, which must best use and meet the wishes and needs of Slovenes and Slovenes. And why the referendum? Why not make a decision to adopt a law that would be consensual? Why the decision of the Slovenian National Party for decree and referendum? The fact is that the Law on RTV was not created by many experts, and members of an expert group, which I believe has been appointed by the Minister, have also distanced themselves from it. The fact is that no amendment of opposition parliamentary groups was adopted at the time of the creation of the law. The fact is that the amendments proposed by the Slovenian Press Union were ignored. The proposals for amendments to the coordination of RTV Slovenia’s press unions regarding the general principles of journalism autonomy were ignored. The finding of the Association of Cultural and Artistic Creators of RTV Slovenia has been ignored to indicate through law the marginalisation of cultural and artistic content on Radiotelevision, and thus indirectly toppling one of the pillars of nationality. The finding of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that there are a number of shortcomings and questions about compliance with the content of the RTV bill with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and with the legal system was also ignored. The fact is that the applicant did not deal too much with the problem of the Sui generis law, a status feature that enforces this law. The manner in which the appointment of councillors and supervisors and their intertwined and interdependent powers deny the claim of the creators of the new law that the RTV Act constitutes a depoliticisation of RTV. The proposed method of appointing supervisors and saints, together with the abolition of the status of the public institution and the introduction of a sui generis status RTV house, just makes it possible for RTV to be the complete political prey of every time the current political authority. The public service functions so far are subject to new commercial activities and consequently allow for the decommissioning of public RTV and the privatisation of individual parts of this house. For these reasons, it is right for the public to decide on one of the most important public institutions in the referendum, because there was no other way. And the referendum is a legal and legitimate democratic standard, at least for the time being, in the country of the Republic of Slovenia and is not a crime. And as long as it is in Parliament, as it is since the first day of Slovenia, the Slovenian National Party, we will fight first for the Slovenian language, Slovenian culture and Slovenian people, because it is our and also your greatest duty in this from the Slovenian people to the elected Slovenian Parliament. And such a fight is legal, legitimate and democratic. Even today, many, especially the coalition parties loyal to the press, are attacking the opposition's demand for a referendum, after the people's decision, and on the other hand show that the referendum desired by the coalition is the fruit of pure democracy, people are increasingly asking whether it is undemocratic, incomprehensible and abuse of democracy if the opposition tries to give the right and opportunity to the people to decide. In the Slovenian National Party, we know that the requirement for a referendum on the Law on RTV is a democratic and constitutional opportunity for people to decide for themselves which RTV they want, publicly, Slovenia, for education, culture, education, Slovenia, Slovenian language or private commercialised and created over the will of most employees in the still public institution of RTV Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! With regard to the proposal for a new law on RTV Slovenia and the call for a referendum, it is necessary to renew or refresh the memory of genetics and the effects of the existing law in the first place. Above all, it is difficult to choose the best of many evidences of how politics interfered with the work of the public service of RTV Slovenia, either directly or indirectly, there are simply too many. The main reason is already the fact that the existing law on RTV Slovenia was written by a member of the largest government in the previous Janša government, who, together with the current Minister of Culture Dr Vasko Simoniti, deceived the public for two years, claiming that the law had been written by prominent domestic and foreign experts. But the author of the RTV Act was Member Grims himself. He commended himself on this, the year after the referendum, at the interpretation of Dr. Simoniti in October 2006, quote, "The author is not Klemen Jaklič, I am the only author of the law from the first to the last sentence, including press errors," the end of the quote. So, what a media expert some are! With this recognition of who is the author of the law, it is now increasingly argued that the existing law on RTV Slovenia is unpolitical. Who would believe such a story in the facts? How did she show up and show the politicisation of the public office? In constant excesses and traces of political governance. Various infringements of journalistic and professional standards mainly include cases of work suspensions, biases and interventions into programme content. The new law changes the status form of RTV Slovenia from a public institution to a separate legal person of a specific cultural and national interest. This is a special sui generis arrangement that fully regulates the operation of RTV Slovenia in the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. However, for situations that may not be regulated, the law provides that the legislation that has been applied so far is the same as in other public institutions. With legal certainty guaranteed, this allows, according to our understanding and assurance of the law-makers, sufficient distinction from the acute establishment regime to allow for a new way of corporate governance with increased flexibility and responsiveness, with increased responsibilities of members of RTV Slovenia authorities. Greater legal certainty, predictability and clarity can only be ensured by the status of sui generis. In fact, a large majority of the constitutional elements of institutional arrangements are regulated differently in the proposal than in public institutions, employees, property, corporate governance system, the personal responsibility of members of the RTV Slovenia authorities, the way they are appointed and the way in which they are financed. In our view, the law contains provisions which define publicly and privately with a clear separation. Of course, we also point out that the responsibility of the managing authorities will also have to be clearly enforced and enforced so that there will be no abuse or possibility of spillage of funds contrary to public interest. In this direction we also understand warnings about the possible commercialisation of public RTV Slovenia. The employees of RTV Slovenia under the new law will no longer be public servants. Comparatively legal and systemicly viewed journalists, as well as other RTV Slovenia co-workers who have an impact on the creation of the programme, cannot be subject to a system in which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia establishes frameworks and baselines. In the first place and in the current situation, the position of a public official may work favourably, and in the event of any deterioration of conditions or possible improvement, it could be said that in such a system there are levers through which the government can influence the income position of software workers and RTV employees, and consequently the programme or management of public television. In previous expert discussions, a consensus of the professional public has emerged that such an arrangement is simply not good. Thus, different, better solutions are proposed in the law. Not only because of the commitments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia but also because of the sincere intention to prepare the best possible text of the modern law on RTV Slovenia, the Ministry of Culture invited all representative unions of RTV Slovenia after a public debate on the draft amendment of the law to formal coordination. In this context, representatives of the Ministry of Culture met several times in the last half of the year with representatives of representative trade unions and have jointly examined the comments of the trade union party and, in the vast majority, if they have not broken down the conceptual starting points prepared by the expert commission, they have also taken into account. The way out of the public servants system, which is regulated by Article 57 of the bill, is, according to the guarantees of the Ministry of Culture, with the exception of the second paragraph, fully recorded in the manner proposed by the trade union negotiating group. The amendments in the second paragraph were made in interdepartmental coordination at the request of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which insisted that the expelled staff would no longer be able to pay an additional pension premium to the closed public pension fund of public servants and proposed that the content should be amended accordingly. Therefore, in order to ensure that the payment of supplementary pension premiums is paid in one of the voluntary supplementary pension insurance funds. This, therefore, still ensures full and without exception the withdrawal from the public servants system in a transparent manner without reducing any employee rights. Their employment contracts remain in force, the same remain jobs, are still subject to the provisions of the applicable collective agreements under the Public Sector Wage Scheme Act until they are negotiated with the management for a different regime, which is not possible without their consent. The position of the staff is protected in this respect both at the time of the transition, where it would be difficult to speak of infringements in any way under the provisions of Article 46 in the future, given the conduct of the law. The employees of RTV Slovenia under the new law will no longer be public servants. However, at the LDS Club, we are positively assessing an internationally comparable approach to the design of the programming board, which will be designed in a new way, so that it will also have an optimal number of members, which should also allow for good or professional work. We also believe that there must be a third programme within RTV, the National Assembly cannot be the editor of such a programme. The new law gives greater autonomy to RTV Slovenia, as the RTV Council will be made up of a special non-party key: the President of the Republic appoints two members, one on a proposal from NGOs dealing with human rights and one on a proposal from registered religious communities. Furthermore, the National Assembly appoints five members on the proposal of non-governmental and non-party organisations. The Italian and Hungarian Self-Governmental Community shall be appointed by one member. The Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts appoints one member, one member appoints the National Council for Culture and the Institute of Information, Cooperation and Development of NGOs appoints another member. We supported the Law on RTV Slovenia in the LDS Club because we believe it is significantly better than the current law and that it is correcting the bad situation in this area introduced by the so-called Grims Act. In the LDS Club, we will support the Proposal for a Decree on the Call for a Legislative Referendum on the Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia, as this is how they impose on us the Constitution and Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but not for substantive reasons. At this point, however, we express the hope that citizens and citizens will overlook the game of those who abuse this highest form of democratic decision to collect cheap political points for daily political purposes. Lastly, the motions for a referendum should ask themselves whether, at the time of the crisis, saving and caring for citizens is so full of the crisis, it is absolutely necessary to spend the taxpayer's money to protect the law, which a Member wrote with typographical errors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! On 26 October 2010, as soon as the majority of the state councillors rejected the veto request, the group of twenty Members and Members addressed to the President of the National Assembly a request for a legislative referendum on the Radio Television Act of Slovenia. A request submitted in accordance with constitutional and commercial provisions cannot be contested. But to contradict is the power of its contentive explanation. Allow me to say very clearly before I speak about the content that the referendum requires part of the opposition: the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian National Party. And that we have not adopted it through the preparation of the decision on the working body and that it is not possible to agree on the proposal that the marriage is bad, that a referendum is needed for this, but that a referendum is to be held once in the future when a few more proposals are put in place. Also, statements by the Prime Minister of the Government that he also agrees with the opposition's proposal regarding the date of the referendum, some have been misinterpreted and, above all, misinterpreted. In the past, we have been thinking about a legal regime that would pre-determine the implementation of all the referendums adopted until then on a pre-defined date, but these were mere reflections. As well as thinking about whether it would not make sense to determine the required number of participants and participants in the referendum in order for the decision to be taken. These are the thoughts that are present. And it's within this content to understand the statement made by the President of the Government, everything else is an abuse of his statement for the needs of daily politics. The applicants for the referendum are convinced that the status changes trigger legal systemic inconsistencies. Inconsistentities would be better replaced by a term of news. The laws governing those issues that are not specifically regulated are clearly defined in the law and responsibilities. And these are the normative acts governing the functioning of public individuals. The emphasis is on "public." The motions for a referendum further emphasise that non-commercial programmes will have to withdraw from commercial ones. Well, it is encouraging that they have managed at least so much self-criticism and have found that this is already happening under the current law. We are not entirely convinced, however, that they had in mind the software content that media experts find more or less shy in dealing with patterns at commercial stations. However, the finding to undermine non-commercial broadcasts on public television is not new, as the National Council for Culture and Part of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council, which was appointed by the National Assembly in its previous composition, has already pointed out this. The issue has also been discussed by the national working body of the National Assembly, and so much more valuable is the provision introduced by the new law, namely that in the absence of a majority share of cultural, artistic, informational, documentary or educational content is initiated by the procedure for the discharge of the administration. The profits will be shared among the employees, according to the referendum's proponents, and we also argue that the Social Democrats, which we agree, must be sufficiently clear. To ensure that the awards are not overly high, the law provides that less than one fifth of the profits may be distributed among employees, which remains after all public and market activity obligations have been covered. It is also right that the fruits of good public service are also enjoyed by programme makers, not only by those who manage to secure a public service contract but also by the creators of the programme. Thus, they were also concluded in a public institution. Finally, it is worth noting that the amendment of the three Members, which would remove the possibility of the remuneration of employees, was not supported by the SDS Member of the SDS Group, who was at the meeting of the home working body at that time. The motions for a referendum note with concern that RTV Slovenia will have to provide a range of content and services to members of the national communities of the former Yugoslavia. In doing so, they are not disturbed by the provision that RTV Slovenia must provide programme content and services to all members of the peoples who live in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, that is to say those who come from the territory of the former Republic. As an explicit statement of the latter. On the one hand, the sensitivity to the fate of foreign workers in our country, on the other hand, when the original nation of these workers is only mentioned by name in a law, they are neither given any rights nor any new rights, such opposition. Those who will allow the employees to move into the new system without pain ask the referendum's proposal. Employees themselves are the answer set out in Article 57 of the new law. This provides that until the conclusion of the annexes in the collective agreement, the provisions of the current collective agreement remain in force, which means that no change is possible without the consent of the employees. We understand the discomfort of excluding public servants from the system, as it proved to be the safety of public administration during the economic crisis. Nevertheless, we support the solution, at least this prevents the media from acting indirectly through the influence on the wage policy of public servants. The motions for a referendum raise doubts that the composition of the Council will be independent of politics. Fear of losing the political influence of any political option is more than justifiable. Up until now, nearly three quarters of the members of the Programme Council have been appointed by the political majority of the National Assembly. From now on, there'll be less than a third of them. The "Plonk" lists with which the previous authority has formed the composition of the programming world likes themselves will always remain just a textbook example of how it does not work with the media. One more time. After submitting the request, the referenda suggested that it would be best to organise a very special referendum day when in the atmosphere of a flowering spring they would seek an answer to another question. In order for the symbolism to be perfect, they proposed quite a flowery Sunday, April 17, 2011. Procrastination, decision-making by the people in the referendum, could also have serious financial implications for the country, which is not in this proposal for a law, but it is a clear message to the referendum's proposer that they should, in particular, refrain from any reform by delay. However, voters and voters will be given the opportunity to express their views very clearly at the December 12th 2010 referendum, at the request of opposition parliamentary groups, once again, whether the drafters' promises at the time of the adoption of the law were fulfilled in 2005 or not. We will decide whether or not the promise of a lower RTV subscription is fulfilled. Whether or not the promise of a better program has been fulfilled and whether or not we will continue to look at the title "again" on the screen. Some have already talked about television "again" and not RTV Slovenia. Is the promise of political independence of RTV fulfilled or is it not? Is the promise of greater relaxation on radio and television fulfilled or not? We will vote in favour of the proposed decision in the Group of Social Democrats, which does not mean that we need a referendum. On the contrary. Nevertheless, we hope that voters and voters will vote in favour of change, cleaner sound and image on their television and radio audiences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a debate between Members and Members on the motion for a decree, and I really remind you, the debate is supposed to be mainly about the motion for a decree. Of course, I know that it cannot be completely separated from the content, but try to limit yourself mainly to those aspects which relate to the referendum but not to the full debate on the law. Thank you very much. He's got Majda Potrat's word first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u26	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. If I wish to discuss the decision in particular, then it should be noted that the Committee has also put to the vote a proposal by the proposers for a call for an ex-legislative referendum. Following the interpretation of the Legislative and Legal Service that the decree must contain a precise date, both for the initiation of the referendum procedure and for the day of the referendum vote, the applicants then offered 17 April as the day of the vote. I have now seen that an amendment has been tabled to open the referendums on 1 December 2010. After reviewing the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative and also after a quick review of the Law on Elections and Referendum Campaign, I find it difficult to explain what to do with the date of December 1st, since the campaign for referendum can begin 25 days before the day of the vote on the referendum. What is this date supposed to mean on December 1st, and I would ask if the applicants of this amendment would explain it? This means that anything can be said in the substantive view of the RTV Act, Slovenia could practically work from 1 December, but this would not be considered a referendum campaign, since it should be officially launched only 25 days before the day of the vote. A very interesting suggestion, I must say, if I'm trying to be a little cynical. That's the question I'm expecting an answer to. Why December 1st? I understand that our proposed date on November 4 is a very correct proposal, because it is still necessary to count on some of the tasks to be launched before the official campaign, but therefore it does not take five months. However, the second thing that seems to me to mention, since several times has already been said, I would like to react only to the things that are evident in the inaccuracies of mentioning certain things. When some representatives of the parliamentary groups spoke about why the RTV Slovenia Act, which was adopted on 20 September, was bad, they argued that no other amendment had been adopted at the hearing of the home labour body except for coalitions. I do not claim to know the genetics of all the conversations that the Ministry of Culture has done with all the social partners. However, I know that these discussions have been much the same as I know that many discussions have been held with my former fellow Member, Andrej Magajna, and with my fellow Member, Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, but that some of the facts and some of the explanations have not been accepted by individuals. But some of the proposals proposed by the social partners were also included in the amendments proposed by the coalition. At the Committee itself, some will hope to recall that the proposal of Andrej Magajna, Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and Franc Žnidaršič has been adopted, however, that the sole founder and owner of RTV Slovenia is the Republic of Slovenia and the amendment that public RTV should guarantee autonomy, pluralism, freedom, the formation of opinions proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. When the Council of Workers and others discussed production, music content, we added that music production is also becoming part of the public service. Then we adopted the amendments proposed by the national communities. At the proposal of the employees, an amendment was also adopted providing professional education for RTV employees, which is, by the way, one of the indications in the request for a referendum that education will be prevented in the public service of RTV, as it will now be called, as a sui generis institution. And on the proposal of disabled organisations, the Disability Programme Committee has also been adopted, according to a new proposal proposed by the National Council of Disability Organisations and not representative associations. I am not saying that I have stated everything, but by doing so, I just want to say how bad the memory of those who now want to destroy all the negotiation procedures in the process of establishing the law and thereby challenge its validity. It's easy to forget what's been achieved, and so the whole, panoramic look at the law and say, "There was nothing agreed, there was no agreement." This is happening about as well as with the perception of the commercialisation and privatisation of RTV. I will only touch commercialisation because I also feel responsible as a member and president of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth to draw attention to this. I hold in my hands the letter, which was sent or drafted on 28 January 2009, the first signed under this letter is Jože Snoj, and it speaks of this and the first paragraph: "RTV Slovenia loses the battle with commercial houses because with the values to which it is bound its national character cannot compete profitablely with their market-oriented projects, which do not have such limitations." The letter then touches other things and the economic propaganda is seen only as the tip of the iceberg. I am sure that you will recall this letter, that this letter was also addressed by the National Council for Culture and also by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, and that we have been reminded that so little of the production of the cultural programme, as it has been in this mandate or since 2005, has never been done before. Therefore, if we are talking about commercialisation, about reducing concern for what the mission of this institution is of particular cultural and national importance, then we should first ask ourselves whether the existing law is capable of dealing with these phenomena which are perceived and which, by the way, are also mentioned by the applicants of the request for a legislative referendum and have not been able to stop it all this time. And when the leader of the parliamentary group spoke about the vote on the amendment, which annulled the possibility of dividing profits from market activities after all public service activities were covered when such an amendment was proposed, it was already said that only two of us voted in favour of such an amendment, no one else. Nor did the amendment's proposers hold back from meeting the committee to discuss this. For those two who voted like that, this vote was simply due to concerns and perceptions as to how money would flow into private pockets, but these private pockets are, by the way, pockets of programme creators and also administrations in one part and the control council, but never to the extent that it was said. And I'm only going to touch one more fake, I'm going to say, a statement that has already been mentioned today. Here I have a message from the STA, on 29 October 2010, when the President of the Government was not in the country, but he was in Brussels, and he was asked and spoke about the referendum, and it is mainly said in the announcement of the topic: "Prime Minister Borut Pahor has today spoken against the referendum on the RTV Slovenia Act in Brussels, because this does not seem to be the right kind of question for the referendum." And then there are these themes that seem more important to the Prime Minister than that. "You should be careful," this is now a literal reference, "that referendums remain for key things, for example, a referendum on the border was such a case and a referendum on pensions could be," he said. Well, and then the Prime Minister recalled his public opposition to the RTV referendum even years ago, it is said, in 2005, and still believes that the referendum on the RTV Act is not essential for what we want to achieve. In addition, I will conclude: "My thoughts will be focused on more important things, such as the RTV Act, namely pension reform, reform of the wage system in the public sector and agricultural reform." So, whoever is now attaching the words of Borut Pahor to that consideration of the possibility of bringing together more referendums on the same day is making a force for this proposed referendum, because the President has made it clear enough that the RTV referendum is against him because, at this point in time, in the situations we are living in, and in the context of the things we need to decide on, this referendum does not seem essential for us to decide on him at the referendum. I myself will pronounce myself in the form proposed by the Committee, because it seems to me that if we want to ask people about this law, then it is good to do so as soon as possible, while there is still a long public debate, a public presentation of opinions, a general discussion and two hearings at the plenary session of the National Assembly. However, I feel the same as the President of the Government that the referendum itself is not necessary for what it brings, but unfortunately that the fears that some now paint, but those of nature, as usual, have great eyes, are still something to say. But the legal restrictions, the constitutional provisions are clear and therefore I do not intend to oppose the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! It is most interesting to justify the opposition's need for a referendum in April. Their justification is rationality and cost reduction. Well, if we were consistent, we wouldn't even be proposing this referendum, because the referendum itself is already a cost. But since this is one of the most authentic expressions and the realization of democratic will, it is difficult for the referendum to oppose or challenge it, so I will not do so. I believe that the proposal for a referendum is as legitimate as the legitimate referendum on the so-called Grims Act. And that is the only argument the opposition can use today and wave with it to defend the referendum. But that's where it all ends, and then the scheming begins. For example, when it is clear that the new law ends the period of the politicisation of RTV, we would like to politicize the flower Sunday. And that, I don't know if they'll understand the electorate and the electorate. Leave people alone in these days. People like to unite, enjoy and enjoy the day that is important to them, without such political obligations as you impose on them with a special referendum day, and especially because it is a matter of mixing apples and pears. At that time, we should decide on a referendum, a law that already exists, which has already been adopted in this National Assembly and has been confirmed in the State Council, and on laws that do not yet exist, which are of a strategic nature and which we will only decide on. It is therefore not understandable that today we would decide whether we would have a referendum in 5 or 6 months. Therefore, the proposal by the coalition, the committee, to carry out this referendum as soon as possible before 1 January, if the referendum has to be, only makes sense. I will not oppose this referendum. I will probably not vote in favour, because I am not interested in such a referendum, because I believe that the debate on the law itself was thorough. The law itself did not come into existence as it did in the time of Mr Grimes. He wrote it, he first attributed it to Minister Simoniti, and then he admitted that this law was actually created in a narrower circle, without the participation of the profession, and without public debate at all, and as the Minister said, only the referendum was an opportunity for a wider public debate and, as you know, the referendum was successful for the proponents of the law, but for the hair and without the public actually being aware of all aspects of this law. What that law, Grims's law, has brought, we all know, and now we are finally given an opportunity to change it in terms of depoliticizing the television station. Of course, I do not understand how the opposition would like to freeze the law and keep it alive until April 17th, so I would like this authority to take advantage of all the possibilities offered by Mr Grims to the political authorities, so Parliament and the Government, in order to carry out its cleaning and all the other tasks in the institution. We're not interested in anything like that. When we proposed this law, we wanted to change the decision-making system, and we did so with the new law. Mr Tanko himself acknowledged, in explaining the Group of Members, that Grims' law offers the possibility of human rights changes, arbitrary human resources changes, and he also listed some of them, even though it should be noted that when appointing the Director-General, it has proved that this coalition is thinking and deciding substantially differently from the previous coalition. Mr. Marko Filli, you know, he's not a political cadre, he's an expert based on the RTV system he had. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u29	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u30	Even in the previous RTV mandate, the role of the technical director was important, and you know that Mr Filli's choice was not in any way political. [[...]] Therefore I do not know what thank you Mr Jerovšek, I look forward to your applause. [[...]] I don't understand why we want to keep this marriage alive until April 17th. I don't understand this or understand this simply by wanting to maintain the intransparency resulting from Grims' law and also the possibility that everything that has been established by the Court of Auditors, by supervisors and so on, could be concealed in this intransparency until everything is settled when it is not necessary or impossible to determine why the agony of Radiotelevision of Slovenia began with the testimony of Grims' law. Therefore, if we vote on the referendum today, we will vote on a decision offering a referendum to the public in December, as soon as possible. With effect from 1 January, this law will enter into force and, of course, we will have an opinion from the public at that time, why are you afraid of that? Why do you want to delay until April? What's this about? I think that there have been so many public debates and that the public is so well aware of this law that they are ready to make decisions. If you underestimate them, of course, say it out loud. However, if you want to maintain intransparency until April so that your personnel, your political staff in RTV, will clear up what needs to be cleaned up, of course that is another issue. I therefore hope that if the referendum decision is voted today, this will be a decision, a proposal proposed by the Committee. For he is the only rational one and offers the law a normal life without such delay and, above all, prevents the politicization of such or other works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. The referendum is urgently needed in order to avoid the political takeover of Radiotelevision of Slovenia, namely the political takeover by neo-Communist parties who want to reintroduce to the Republic of Slovenia the way in which it was known elsewhere, more than 20 years ago, even in the former SFRY, not what they did, but somewhere until 1975. It is true that such a system of action as gentlemen and ladies wish to introduce today is still in use in North Korea and I think that the Slovenian public is very much seen not to allow such North Korean experiments in the Republic of Slovenia. After all, they are supposed to be a democratic state, and in the end media freedom is supposed to be used here, but we are not using media action to confirm freedom, but we are in violation of media freedom. We have fallen very low in the field of media protection and media freedom in the world, and they will soon put us where we appear to belong. Only this law has to be maintained and we'll be where we are. And if we take just a few basic reflections, the current government wants to take full control of the media. It will be able to determine what is to be published, what can be shown, what will be prohibited, and what will also be a criminal offence against what will be prohibited. The way a particular group decides whether a person should use a word or not and will decide what is a violation, I don't know what kind of human rights, or let's say a word is misused or what else I know, I think it reminds us of other times. Although I must say that such attempts and such matters are already taking place in the National Assembly, by the President of the State Assembly, Mr Gantard, but this will also come to the fore. To avoid this, however, it is necessary to take over Radiotelevision of Slovenia and direct it in that direction so that such escapades by the ruling coalition will simply not be shown, they will be cut out. The segments that speak in favour of the governing structure will be shown, but the real situation will not be shown. This is already happening in print media, and this will now begin to happen on Radiotelevision of Slovenia. Of course, the current neo-Communist authorities need it. He has less than two years until the next election, and in this time he must do his utmost to hold, win and retain the positions he has now, in addition to ripping off the money left in public institutions, I also consider RTV to be able to fill his insatiable pockets. Another issue is the subordination to commercial activities. Radiotelevision Slovenia is supposed to become some kind of strange conglomerate of a public company and probably some private foundations. This would start happening so that POP TV could get closer and closer and closer to Pink TV, and perhaps even to some local media at the moment, which, of course, you intend to stop because only a rare local TV station will be able to afford, due to financial resources, to obtain digital equipment to play its programs. In short, you're going to cut into a complex media television space. Introduce your criteria. Introduce your demands and then you will do as you please. Of course, at the same time, you'll be serving with ads. And these ads are going to go to that part of the public office that's going to be a share company, not somewhere else. Of course, you're going to throw all those reporters you don't want out after a year. Well, that won't be hard for you. The counter they have introduced with regard to political removals is simply running and will run even faster than it has run so far. These things are weird, if you say so politely, weird. It is true that Europe is already wondering what kind of democracy we have and how we are going to this democracy, but when there is a lot of people who can say anything that can't say anything. Even today, information concerning, say, the Minister of the Interior is limited in certain segments, then information about where the money is going, say Dars, is not being said and so on and so on. What kind of people are forbidden to talk about, they're not even mentioned, but if someone has to be removed from political space, it's simply not possible for him to say anything. These are interesting things. And some of these things are already being tried or enforced, just as you removed the meetings of the National Assembly from the second program into the third program, because some of them cannot follow. And every voice you have doesn't matter how you get it is good for you. For you are aware that people no longer trust you. There's been too much fraud, but it can be corrected by an extreme media campaign where no one can control the costs, because the institution itself will be made so that if it has to be controlled, if it doesn't have to be controlled, because someone will always jump in and say, sorry, this segment is the one from the stock company. That segment in the public office is somewhere else. Interestingly, even journalists, the Association of Journalists and Publishers decided not to support this law. And they said they weren't asked. That even the Minister and her delegation went so far as to disregard the opinion of the expert group when even those members of the expert group separated themselves from this law. It doesn't matter, because the purpose is to devote funds, said Machiavelli. And apparently you stopped studying Marx and Engels, but you started studying Machiavelli. I also think if we studied Marx and Engels, not after short editions like you had on the FDV, but through all the complex material, we'd probably also learn something else that you haven't been able to understand so far. The third issue, as I said, is the privatisation of various individual segments of RTV Slovenia and this privatisation, with whose money? With the money of those who will pay for the subscription. This reminds me of the National Investigation Office, when the house becomes the property of someone who will be paid by the state for this property and when it is its own, it will receive additional revenue from the state, because it will all become its own and then we will move on. This will also happen on RTV Slovenia. I think we've seen something like this before, we've seen attempts like this before when someone from the same circles wanted to privatize a VIBA film. There was no guarantee of success. But here some would like to do it and, of course, rule at the level of the media moguls. But it has to be said that the media moguls are not thieves. The media moguls who are abroad have done this with their own work, with intelligence and with transparent laws, but not with such laws as we adopt them, of course with the support of coalition parties, which neo-communism so strongly entrenched in taking over, that one wonders whether it may not be neo-comunism, but it is possible neo-liberalcommunism or something like that. In short, things are very strange. Some also say that it is terrifying how much money will be thrown away for this referendum. Only 1% of the money Mr Pahor has poured out on the referendum to the Greeks, so that they can continue to live comfortably and that Slovenia will never see. But here too is interesting thinking, because if RTV Slovenia is taken over, we will not know where the money went, how the money was spent, or where the two billion 73 million guarantees went for various credits that the smart countries will not pay, because behind their backs will have a stupid Slovenia, which on the left and right shares money that is not actually hers. I'm talking about the government, the government is sharing this money, and the money is ours, all of it. Even those who are barely living, including those who don't know what they're going to be the next day, but you don't care. The main thing is to pet, grab, and ensure a pleasant and comfortable life to go on. I don't know why, if you're talking about such a heavy cost, you don't agree to delay the terms of this referendum, because I'm sure there's going to be another referendum, maybe a referendum on small work, or a referendum on pension reform, and we can bring all three referendums together and the cost of the referendum will be reduced to one-third of this sum if we look at each referendum. But no, you don't care because you don't care about the cost that people will bear. All you want to know is how much you're going to benefit from this as soon as possible and how you're going to stain people's eyes to make it easier to keep grabbing. This experiment is, in fact, horrendous and condemned. What success we shall see. However, it is interesting that the previous law was voted in a referendum and confirmed in a referendum. I know you'll do anything. I'm sure you'll cheat on those ballots, the polls, too, and I'm sure you'll be working, using everything. And I hope you don't succeed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u33	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The truth must be told in this hall, not lies. You need to talk to your head in this room, not your mind. And in this room you need to talk about things that you know, not that you can tame your own desires, truths, visions, current state, colors, measurements, and so on. Therefore, some of the claims that have just been made must be put down because of the hygiene of viewers and viewers who have insight into what is said here and how Members and Members of Parliament actually understand what is done every day – to know things, laws, proposals, to reflect and reason, but not to speak and argue, as if today is shining the sun and that we are in the middle of the summer, when we know that it is cold and that we are cold. Therefore, it is not respectful of citizens and citizens to invent falsehoods because we are burdening their ability to perceive, perceive and face the truth. It is very inappropriate to say that Slovenia has fallen on the media freedom scale because it has been raped with some bad solutions or by stealing, shouting and other things that the Member has just said. Slovenia has slipped 10 cities on the press freedom scale, at least after a survey of journalists without borders or after their activities, according to the 46th place, for the very clear reasons given in this report, and is therefore read, told and heard again. The explanation reads: "The former Prime Minister is competing with Silvio Berlusconi and Robert Fitz when he demands no less than €1.5 million from a journalist who has revealed irregularities in the award of public procurement contracts, according to his own words," and the media said, "Janez Janša for a half-second million sues Finnish journalist Magnus Berglund for the Patrio affair." And that pushed us back so many and so many places. Maybe they're referring to it, maybe it was something else, maybe it was other famous warnings, for shortening, for example, the possibility of freedom of speech, but that's what we're meeting with. Therefore, it is inappropriate not to argue the reasons why certain claims are made. And another thing, from 2005 to 2008, she fell 21 places on other scales that I'm not going to list now, at least for 11. And that's worrying. But it's hard and wrong to point your finger where there's a vacuum where there's a void. I regret that such superficiality is taking place in such debates. I do not have my own superficiality, I need arguments and I like to participate in such discussions. But not in those who speak and mix the Law on RTV Slovenia, which Mr. Noblemen did innocuously, and the Law on Media. Something that does not exist in the RTV Slovenia Act is prescribed by the Media Act. And it is not nice, therefore, that Members, who have a very great responsibility and we know them, are faced with such serious matters so flatly and so childishly. I would also like to replicate the speaker's presentation of the views of the SNS Group, Mr Barovic, and highlight an important fact. Indeed, one of the members of the Supervisory Board recently, I think this year, two years ago, resigned from the membership of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia, this has also been dealt with within the Committee on Culture and Education, we are familiar with this derogation, but we need to remember why. This was Mr Tomaž Glajar, but why do I replicate because he was appointed to the Supervisory Board, on the proposal of the Slovenian National Party. This is said to be the case with the appointment of individual parties to the management bodies under the current law. And in the longer talks, after all, even when we presented and coordinated the law in all the parliamentary groups, by the way, there was only one Member in the SDS, although we were waiting for you to attend and tell you what you did not like and also tell you what you wanted, but at one coordination there was no one, but at the coordination, all the reasons why the said Supervisor did not agree so far that he left membership in the supervisory council, because of that, especially here, I remember you, the important fact that he faced the truth and that obvious fact, which I have also stressed in the committee of the National Assembly, the end of the report of the supervisory board of RTV Slovenia, the National Assembly, and also the new law, which you will not be considering, you will be dealing with, and the fact that I have also stressed in the discussions of the committee of the State Assembly, the final report of the supervisory council of Slovenia, because of the State Council of Slovenia, because of which he did not already made it. But here's the lead mind, the control council here had a big problem with it, and some members have stepped down. We have therefore also listened to the proposals of those criticisms of the current law, which have been geared towards better solutions. But we have kept it, and I will never forget to say this, because it is true, those proposals of the present law, which are good, which are appropriate and which have also proved useful. And there is something else to be said when we talk about the allegations that the signatories to this referendum have put forward the proposal for a referendum and are shamelessly transparent because they have no argument. That's what they say, not us or the public, they don't point to an article that says that. But, no, you say that, and now we're gonna privatize everyone. Where does it say that?Oh, my God! Where does it say that?Oh, my God! Nowhere! Not in any way. And since you're not saying it, I forgive myself, then I have to warn you that you're doing it superficially, that you're not doing it right, and that you're not doing it right, because what you're saying is it's going to be privatized or something else, or it's going to be commercialized or it's going to be taken into its own pockets. Please! The fact that RTV Slovenia will be a share company, a profit organisation that will weaken the public service and allow the payment of profits to employees in the administration is not justified, I am very gentle in this argument of such perceptions because I will maintain the limit of sobriety. But I'm going to say he's not eligible and he's not constructive because he's lying and we can't underestimate people and lie to them. Please. We can't! I understand that you have some maneuverable space of a dictionary that supports your intentions, but you preserve the truth. So at least let me help you at certain points, in certain places, and let me tell you, read a law, tell you in which article this is where you see these dangers and clarify with yourself what is meant and what is true. It is not possible to privatise, but it is true that in recent times there has been an intervention in what is, I will say, the public value of RTV Slovenia. Let's say how much Eutelsat's shares have been sold out, I think in the last period of the year, four million dollars. Let's say what was fed up with this silver that RTV Slovenia has. Here you have heard many times that from these quotas have been fed the content that you are saying today that they will be commercial or potentially commercial tomorrow, and Passion will be a lot more. The license for Pyramid and, of course, also try to, perhaps, seize these funds for wages because of the law and political commitment that has occurred in the past, that Grims' marriage will bring more music for less money, that is to say, a better programme with less resources is, of course, a tribulation on RTV Slovenia. And when it was necessary to follow Virant's corrections to the payroll system, which even eliminated some of the low-paid values to employees or even some anomaly, there was no such money. And the political commitment not to increase the subscription or RTV contribution that was given here, and which was given to people, of course, also did not bring up those funds that everyone remembers well, tried to bring into the account of minority programs, we know how it was. Of course, last year, 2009, the government was careful enough not to leave these manoeuvres to play minority programmes that go from the state budget to make up for the wages. But that's the details, let's leave, that kind of detail is huge. And if we used a similar vocabulary, flattened, we would say they weren't decent and not only useful for the public service, but hygienic, not for the public service. The fact that the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia will be able to fill the pockets in future, as we have heard today in the way of dividing the funds, because I do not know, to overexamine, I believe that you are not conscious, you are already subconsciously overestimating. Consider that RTV Slovenia will also be in this sui generis form, where this sui generis is highlighted in the way that it applies to supervisory authorities, to administrative authorities, to the programme council, to the supervisory board, to the administration of large responsibilities, as is the case in companies. Here's the high standard that we've set and that's going to protect these distortions, which are going to happen as we just said. Very high standards, these people will have to have exams, visibility, knowledge, go through the grid, even here. Very tiring, but responsibility is necessary here. The public service will feed on the RTV contribution, continue. Absolutely, there's no dilemma here. And the surplus of income over expenditure from that commercial activity, which will also be created today, as it also arises in libraries, as we also have in museums, as we also have a certain commercial activity in the galleries. In libraries, when they have an event, and when they rent, say, a hall or a place for an event, commercial income. Same goes for the gallery, same goes for the museum. And these commercial activities, which we call commercial activities, always return to public service. Mr Magajna, they always return to the public service, even here, and they will have to. If you read the law correctly, that's the way it is. The division you're talking about is that it's supposed to be in the way of feeding the programming board and the supervisory board, let me tell you, in 2009, Director Anton Guzei received a performance prize of around €14 000 400 if I have the exact data. If this law, which you are giving to the referendum, were to be awarded to the Director, the Director would never receive up to €14 000 400 after his 2009 business. I couldn't. I couldn't, by the way. I couldn't do that. No, but, Mr. Tanko, listen to me, so you won't keep repeating and going on, Mr. Tanko, if it were business as in 2009, then the whole administration would be and if this law were to apply, Mr. Tanko, are you listening to me? [[...]] And if this law you doubt and you want to check it out, you're gonna have to tell people. If this law were in force, the director would not have received EUR 14 000 400 like Guzei, but the entire administration would have received EUR 4 000 400. EUR 4 000 400 if the business was as it was in 2009. And if this law were to be applied, which we bring as a solution to something you object to. It is €4 000 400, and if it is a five-member administration, it is €880. That's 880 euros. Like, well, if we had a bigger surplus, but they only had 88, then that's it. If we had smaller ones, we'd have less. If we had 100,000 euros in surplus, the entire administration would share 4,000 euros. But something has to be pointed out, members of the Supervisory Board and members of the Programme Council, who are not now, at least in the programming world more of the debate circle than they were, even though the debate circle is fine. After all, today Mrs Potrata has read a part of the record that was created on the basis of an initiative of the Programme Council, formerly, with Mr Snow, with Mr Granda, with Mr Kos and others who wondered whether the television they were looking after as members of the Programme Council was not too commercial. In short, the members of the programme board in the new composition, which will be in the smaller team, will have a significantly more responsible task, because they will also guarantee decisions with their own assets. And the only thing we're actually dealing with here is that segment that you don't like, and you're saying that it's getting to the economic society on average. This part is taken from another system which is responsible and where control methods and decisions should also take place with greater responsibility and cannot be made in any easier way. In Slovenia we do not yet have such ways of managing public services with a more flexible, less harsh form, so we have a pattern from many other countries that have forms, but they call it a company, they call it an economic society, they call it a foundation, they say society, and they say a lot more because you know what the explanation of the law says, but they do it differently. We have a shorter tradition like this, we have a less developed plaza, I'll say, offers of this kind, how to organize public service and maybe that also makes cramps significantly more, because we put everything in public institutions, either it's kindergartens, or it's schools, or it's health homes, or it's museums, galleries and so on. And there are these nuances that make you more flexible, more flexible and more specific in particular areas, and you agree with everyone, especially those who are mayors, because you know how sometimes this is restrictive. I have something else to say, which has been highlighted several times in the discussion also in the presentation of the parliamentary groups. That's right. We've been doing a lot of talking. I said earlier that more or less we were also with the entire ministerial team, which dealt with this law also in various parliamentary groups, let us say more than once at the very beginning, when the outline and concepts of the law were slightly different than they are now. I recall the SLS Group, which, for example, suggested that I tell you how many different nuances there were, who proposed, each had its own vision, in the SLS it was suggested that the Programme Council should be composed to appoint half the opposition and half the positions, and that if the issue of duality, who is right now, would be decided by the President of the Programme Council. In short, there were countless solutions, and everyone wanted something. And also in the expert committee responsible for the media area, not only for RTV Slovenia, but also for the Media Act, there were many different positions and members did not have orders to have closed mouths when different visions did not reach what we eventually agreed on, because the law is always a compromise of different interest groups, different knowledge also of those where you sometimes limit yourself and otherwise see, to various distinctive practices that are particularly valuable if you recognize them where democracy is longer and where tradition is larger, that is to say in the European space. For example, in an expert committee where, as I say, they were not unanimous, far from that, almost everyone opposed the parliamentary programme. And when we split up, they didn't say they were happy with the marriage. No, they said, "We didn't because you left the parliamentary programme the way you saved it." We insisted not. Or were they not satisfied with the solutions around us that we were too limited, that we were no longer giving firstfruits to companies or companies that otherwise approach the public service and that when you ask them, they would say, "No, we should have more closed or stricter or more flexible solutions than they are." But something important is that, on different views, all consulted, and this was not small, with different aspects, but the basic concept, I stress, has not changed. And we have committed ourselves to this concept, after all, even at your public debate in 2005, which was judged by the people, that is to say the Law on RTV 1 or the law that Mr Grims has the only copyright, which by the way, is no longer being defended. At the time we said something, all of us who thought otherwise We need to protect autonomy, we need to limit the influence that does not offer healthy and credible journalism. [[...]] It is necessary to prevent the tsunami that took place on RTV Slovenia immediately after the referendum. Just remember which prominent journalists left RTV Slovenia, where today are the names with which they behaved rightly in the past on RTV Slovenia. Where are these names today? They're gone, they're not on RTV Slovenia! And I'm not going to ad to the staff, but I want to. At the same time, we said, and then the then President of the State, Mr Drnovšek, was at the end of the referendum, I remember, he said, now is the opportunity to prove everything you were talking about and more to say how many opponents of Grims' law were wrong. And in these five years this has not been proven. It has not been proven and we do not want to do so in practice. And it's not right to leave things the way they are. It wouldn't be right if we changed this situation overnight, quickly, as many people wanted. Believe me, we got a lot of calls at the Ministry, but what are you waiting for, why are you doing this so slowly? No, we're not, and we don't want anything to be done that can be produced by others into future problems. I think that this is the only fair policy action or management of public affairs. And I stress that RTV Slovenia remains a public matter, remains in the public service, for the public, and that it is not possible to forget that the interests of the parties are not here. In this sense, I think it is good that it does not follow it at a time when there will be a lot of hot blood and a lot of speech, because it is not respectful to reduce or overlook the institution that Europe has preserved, knowing that everything remains very yellow in Slovenia, Europe and elsewhere. That he's hit by speedy courts, quick judgements, all too much and too little-checked news or opinions or values or whatever. That is why Europe is the advocate of public RTV services. Keeps them, even more, protects them. Moreover, the only directive exists in this area: Culture does not know any European directive that speaks, and this is how you do it, so that we will all do the same in Europe. In just one area and this in the field of public service RTV Slovenia we have a directive which speaks about the need to protect our own content, national content, those made by Slovenian language, Slovenian nation or Spanish and the Spanish nation, as well as those which reflect this society as a whole, the entire European community. And publish so many and so many shares. That's all he's protecting. And so you must understand that the Council of Europe, or the representative of the Council of Europe, when faced with Grims' law years ago, we will say that he was appalled and wanted, and also politely urged, of course, to change. Because it is necessary to take care of the standards and hygiene that Europe wants to promote, and I believe that we all do.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u35	Please, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u36	I have the right to a replica because I am appointed and that Madam Minister will not be misunderstood by any chance. Yes, we are proud that Mr Tomaž Glajar, as an expert, was a great expert proposed by the Slovenian National Party to the Supervisory Board, and we are proud that he worked very well. However, he resigned because of the bad work of some individuals in the area he was overseeing. Well, not because of the bad marriage. I would point out that if someone is doing a bad job or there are irregularities, then it is necessary to replace a person who is doing a bad job but not the law, so that it is clear! But Mr. Tomaž Glajar was too fast to stay in the control world and nod for the irregularities he had seen, so he resigned. And in the conversation he also said to me, "It may be through this organization, to those who will be in the control world," he might have said, "so much harder." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u37	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Welcome to the 2012 State Elections Vertigo, the campaign has begun. And so it will take these two years from year to year, spitting, criticizing, counting on the ignorance of people, protecting one another against the other and criticizing everything on average. I must say that I am disappointed because in such an important, most important anti-crisis law, of the kind of signatories participates in Chamber 8, 9, sometimes 10 people. Well, that's the most important law. I remembered a nice joke when someone saw a banana shell in front of me and said, "Damn, I'm going to fall again." The law has not yet entered into force, but ladies and gentlemen already know what is wrong with it. Even more, they know even further what will happen to the laws adopted in February, March, April. This trap of critique people is about to pile up. They were able to agree on pension reform in Bulgaria, they will work up to 65 and 63 years old, but with us, now that it is time to put forward proposals, to put in solutions, we are already predicting a referendum. That's how people go. We will not deal with the crisis, not the economy, not the jobs, not the jobs, but the political themes themselves. I am pleased that the Minister responded perfectly to those who, in previous discussions, recognized themselves in the mirror tonight and told them what they wanted to own, one said they wanted to cheat with noble intentions and a whole bunch of similar nonsense and nebulosis. What they wanted and had the opportunity to do with this law failed, and they did not like it, they recognized themselves in the mirror. One of the supervisors gave up because everything was wrong there, he couldn't do it anymore. But a marriage that's bad, which makes it possible, would still be defended and defended. I'm not going to repeat some of the learned legal words, because people don't care about this sui generis variant. People want to know what kind of TV they're going to be watching tonight. Are they going to watch an interesting program? I recommend that they take into their hands an hour, a stopwatch when we talk about the commercialisation of television, and from now on from six to the end of the program they stop at how many commercials they watch, of course for their money, for their stream and their subscription. Why do people switch to commercial television? Because there are no good sports, cultural programs, because of course there are no good movies and therefore they watch POP TV and I don't know any other TV. And we all worked together at the referendum for a law that will allow people to have a TV that is kind and especially interesting and not directed at one side or the other. I am sure that more people than this moment have won elections in Brazil or elsewhere in the world, that they are interested in what is happening and how it is happening with us, our neighbors, and more. That certain broadcasts, as has always been and will probably be directed by management and management to some specific point of view. It's gonna be hard to avoid, but when something like this happens to us, it's too much. Look at the final questions in this Chamber! I asked the President of the Government how we are doing with real estate, what the work of the Geodetics Administration is, announced the support of the Group of Members of the Progressive Taxation that those with more property, more housing, pay more, more taxes and so on. But look at the report on the questions sent! All those who spoke from the opposition were presented with the name, surname, image, text, at least one minute's notice. The one who asked this question, which is of interest to people, was not given by name and surname, not by text, nothing, it simply did not happen, three, four dry answers by the Commissioner. I find it heartwarming to see what happens to guests in conversational, very reverberative shows when there are such holidays as it was yesterday. The darkness, the films that continue to divide and divide the nation, will always open. You'll listen to these stories all the time, including repetitions. But I think that the repetitions now for those who repeat them are already counterproductive, because I am sure that the information shows led by Tomaž Terček have been more balanced. And now you can see that television has always been better than it is today and that it requires changes. [[The ad in the hall.]] Jože, I'm sure you'll get to your time to strike the cavalry. There's nothing to be afraid of, or I'll save you some of my own. That's all this stuff. What will be played in the marriage? Look at you every night! People feel sorry for the workers who came to Slovenia with the belly behind the bread. But now that we have proposed in this law that even those with whom we have lived for years and years in a common country have lived for decades, that some word, how they live, why they are here, but now it is too much, only the accent of this moment no one hopes to say it. However, it will be protected by such, lowliness of mind, simplicity, duality, hypocrisy without need. And, of course, we don't deserve Slovenians and Slovenians like that. We do not want our left or right television, but ours, so that we will be happy to sit, where we will receive information from life mainly at home, as well as in the world, information about sports, culture. So that we don't run into the arms of a "commercial" so that we can also see a movie, modern, good, rewarded, not older than two, three years old. And people will vote for that kind of television. Of course, all other topics will be at the forefront of this imposed referendum, but only content and software will be at the forefront. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u39	Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u40	Mr Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Culture, colleagues and colleagues! Today, in fact, I was most disturbed by what has become quite a regular practice in the National Assembly, when colleague Jelinčič began to think about some fictional law, of course in his science-fiction style, which is well-controlled, which should prohibit this and that which should have revived neocommunism, which would have caused South Korean rule and so on. Look, I think if this coalition really wanted to work this way, it would just stay with the old marriage. The easiest thing to do is to influence journalists or any media, their editorial policies, by giving them money. Earlier, the Minister explained why we had fallen on this free press scale, without borders. Not only did we fall because of Janez Janša's lawsuit, but also because of the excessive impact of the economy, it was also one of the reasons, some economic associations, on some media in this country. Now, to say that this is what politics is doing with this new law, and that is a pure "nonsense". I do not know how many debaters have said so far, but because it is worth repeating, I will say again, the RTV world is an essential body in the Radiotelevision of Slovenia that decides on the programming content and orientation of this medium. In this world, this National Assembly, here, we now appoint 29 members of the current Grims Act, which I think is a great mastodon for one operational body, which is 16 members on a political line. And if we add five more members that are called political parties, that's 21. Ladies and gentlemen, 7 people are not appointed to this world politically. The current law is a political appointment, the appointment of the National Assembly has reduced to 5 people, only 5 people who are not members of political parties or political officials, but representatives of civil society. And these people will meet with a public invitation to tender. Well, then tell me what politicization is. What is it now, or what this coalition proposes? Of course, as a long-standing journalist, I would like to say that the politicization of any media cannot be prevented by law alone. It is a matter of every individual, editorial policy, journalist, editor who must have so much integrity that he does not let himself be influenced by those political structures that he would like, or even prevent some of his colleagues from calling on their own political botts and asking how to write or prepare contributions. Indeed, in my 20 years of journalism, I have often witnessed such practices. We can't split up here on the left and on the right, how any of the options can affect us. This must be legally prevented to the maximum extent possible, and this law makes it possible. This law limits the direct political impact of policy on editorial policy in a public institution. Now I'd like to touch the status of the press. You yourself know that there was a great uproar when it was decided years ago that journalists would become part of the public service system, that is perfectly understandable. In no developed democratic country, not in Europe, nor in the wider world are journalists paid by the government. We have to admit, it's a reality. They're being paid by the government. That this is a system that is possible, as Mrs Minister has already said, temporary repairs to some are true. But if we are to pursue truly independent and independent journalism, then we must also leave this freedom to the press. During the period in which this Law on Public Servants worked and the journalists of the Public Service were employed as public servants, this Public Service has benefited from several individual contracts with some journalists who came from commercial houses that received salaries with these contracts twice as high as their colleagues who were regularly employed as public servants. Is this the kind of institution we want? I don't think we can afford such anomalies. Let's say something else that some colleagues have already mentioned before me about the good news and the new practice of this law. As the law stems from the national needs of programmes for all inhabitants of this country, a novelty of specific programming content has now been introduced for members of the peoples of the former Yugoslavia but of course citizens of Slovenia. These people take up as much as 10% of the population of Slovenia and have so far been neglected. Their rights and their lack and poor exercise in this country have not only been brought to our attention by the Ombudsman, who was one of the proponents for legal change in this law, but also by the Council of Europe, of other rights not only of RTV, the media rights of this population. I am glad that this law has regulated this area properly. We all know that representatives of constitutional minorities in the Republic of Slovenia already have this right on RTV. And as a reporter, let me finally say something about these programs. By law, you can influence programs, and this law tries to influence programs. I hope that, in fact, on Radiotelevision Slovenia, where I have been employed for many years also, will start to work differently. In order not to be informative, cultural, entertainment programs made by everyone with a common noun, let's say a broadcast To Health, because cheering in style We really don't need to be happy in serious content. When was the last time you saw or finally saw an analytical show about a social problem that concerns all of us, say a pension reform? No, this public office is constantly putting on a show to invite people who are fighting with each other. There is no more analytical journalism here, there is no journalist who will go from one, the other, the third and the fourth, present to the people the marriage proposal, present the opponents, present the advocates, present the affected. No, the easiest thing to do in the studio is to call representatives of political parties, which we will bet again as we are here today, against the screens, of course, and thus, of course, diminish the reputation of this National Assembly as well as of other policies. In the absence of ideas for truly high-quality broadcasts, and obviously in the absence of money, there are, of course, these impossible repetitions. Look, no one can justify the constant repetition, not the broadcasts that were made yesterday before yesterday, but the show Listen to my contributions from 20 years ago, give my father, who is thirty years in retirement, the shows that are only playing on this new technology because everything is jumping and simply because there are no new ideas and because there are no new high-quality issues. [[...]] And I think that this law is directing RTV back in the direction that was drawn at the time of the establishment of this institution, and this is that it is preparing the content that is in the national interest of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u41	Mr. Alexander Zorn has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I will try to focus on the content on the proposal of the President of Parliament, and this is the referendum on the RTV Act because at least this is what the Minister herself has been focusing on, who has talked for half an hour about anything after the Associations, but most awful about the previous law and all possible minor and insignificant perceptions in this regard. So I don't know what else we could argue about here or what we could suggest with this referendum, so we need to get back to him. At least four objections were raised against this referendum. For the first time, it was marginal. The referendum in times of major social distress and economic crisis is due to the fact that it is only RTV that is so irrelevant that it does not have to hold a referendum with it. I say the opposite. The law on RTV is the law on the largest public institution in the country, the largest cultural institution and is extremely important, it is one of the most important laws we will receive in this mandate. After all, it also turns out to be an economic law. That's what we really decide about. Second contract. Since all this substance has been in public debate and this has been a long time, it is unnecessary for the referendum to shorten this observation. However, I must say that the whole type of evidence which has been triggered in public debate has remained intact in the law. The law simply did not take into account very important comments, many of them were, it does not make sense to list them, and the law overcame these comments with a coalition roller and was adopted. That is why there is no other solution if we are still resisting this, as if we are responding to the referendum. Third thing. That it was a referendum, said the Minister herself and apostrophe me at a press conference when I said democracy was expensive and the referendum was expensive. She said, "Democracy is precious." Yes, democracy is precious, this law is valuable, and because of the crisis, you mentioned it, the distinguished minister, or should we then say, "Because the crisis is going to be a bad law, because the crisis we will adopt is a law that is unacceptable, we are hiding behind the crisis, we are manipulating the crisis, we are using the crisis and we are using it, because the crisis is going to be a law that we are opposed to," many oppose it and many will still be. It also brings some very dangerous things. This is an abuse of the moment so you can accept anything. I don't know what else will follow this logic. We can still have a lot of laws. Many of the literally corrupt laws we adopt because the crisis is without a referendum because it will overtake the coalition's roller. And then another clue. The law sucks, but because it's a crisis, we're going to get rid of it, and we're not going to vote for it, and we're going to vote against it. It's hypocrisy. We offered something different. There'll be a few referendums and we could put them together. We offered dates, some of them made fun of you, but you don't want those dates, you want a dear referendum, you want to prove that this referendum is expensive and pointless because it's too expensive. That's what this is about. And that's cynicism of the worst kind. And now a little to the law, as far as the referendum is concerned. We accept the new form of the institution, which is a hybrid of economic society, whether you want it or not. You're talking about demagogism, maybe. This demagogy is also yours. If it's just a regular public institution called otherwise, then let it be a public institution, it's a hybrid. And this hybrid will bring all the pitfalls of a hybrid, which is also part of the economic hybrid. And we know what the economic situation is, and we know that the economy is something that can be owned, that can be sold and that money can influence. We know all that. If you, Madam Minister, have not been trusted with your idealism that there may be abuse and that you may want to eventually possess this RTV, that the paragon that still has money will buy it, not just ideologically controlled it, then of course this is embarrassing, but that possibility exists and we are fighting it and we will still fight it. And that's the essence of this referendum. One more thing. Since this possibility exists, I must tell you that this hybrid, strange sui generis, which means a kind of law, or a kind of institution, is also something that we will have to ask ourselves whether we can and should support it with a subscription, I repeat, really firmly. There will be a conflict here. We don't have to pay our fees to any of the companies because we have electricity at home. And here this sui generis cannot be compared to any in the country, because no other sui generis of a smaller species collects from all citizens who have electricity, subscribers. It's a unique. And you're gonna have to say something to Europe about that. In short, that's what we don't want. We do not want the years and years of subscription to millions to end up suddenly in some private hands. That's it. But while we're talking about the fact that associations have fallen up and down and Slovenia's reputation has fallen by 10 cities because the former Prime Minister has sued a journalist who has said things that are unprovable, I ask you: And if he wins, will we rise to 10 cities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u43	Mr. Franci Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. In 2005, the proposed referendum on RTV, SDS, urged people to support Grims' law with the following promises: "At the adoption of Grims' law, you will have a more varied and quality programme of public broadcasting, journalists' rights to free reporting, more cost-effective business and smaller RTV contributions, a non-repetition programme, the same criteria for all and for balanced and professional reporting, more culture, good entertainment and more quality information." Which one of these happened? Very little. Clearly, it was misleading, as it was misleading, to say today that it was a matter of renewal in the proposed law, to increase the political impact. If you look at the members of the Supervisory and Programme Board, you will see that the political impact is less. Furthermore, when the responsibility of the management with its own assets for the mistakes made is compared with privatisation, it is a matter of deceiving again. And when consistently, Mr Tanko, when it is only an opportunity, you add that it is the privatisation of Zares in all areas, energy, mail, television, you are deceiving again. Minister Radic is only a member of Zares, she cannot resign because she is an economic minister. The Ministry of Economy covers certain areas and it has removed two members of Zares from the HSE Supervisory Board, appointed a new one, appointed a new supervisory committee, in which there is no member of Zares. So much for your deception. For example, a former law writer, Comrade Grims, claimed for a year and a half that this was written by prominent foreign and domestic experts, and eventually admitted that the law was written by himself. That's why I think it's about time we accepted it, because we already did, this new law. I don't think I need a referendum on that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u45	Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I personally object to the fact that the RTV referendum is being held because I think it is simply an exaggerated move, an exaggerated response to the fact that the veto in the State Council has not been voted on. I voted against the RTV Act because I do not think it is good and it is no better than that existing one, as I voted against many laws in this National Assembly when I thought they were not good, that they are not good for citizens and citizens when they are not good for this country. However, we have not considered demanding a referendum for each such law, where we voted against it. It is obvious that in this country we are going to have several referendums in the future, because almost every well-organised group in this country simply does not agree with any article, with what solution in some important laws for this country. Why is that? My guess is because we don't know how to talk because we don't know how to communicate with each other. Both between you and outside of politics. Today we have received an invitation from the President of the Government to a meeting of Parliamentary Party Presidents on the subject, and I will shorten the European affairs related to the last Council that has taken place. Very important. But we do not find time to meet on the subject of many important, first-class subjects, if you will, for this country. First-class themes for this country at this time in which we live. At a time when the tycoons are shaving madmen out of us, when such and other information about their property, about yachts, about ranches, about networks, and so on. The state doesn't care where they got all this, in the fact that, of course, their companies "went for fungi". At a time when we should be busy or talking, I am talking about the President of the parliamentary parties, how we will help the economy, how we will create new jobs. At a time when we should discuss how to reduce the budget deficit, there is no longer, in my opinion, a rule of law on reducing public administration costs. At a time when we should talk about the key reforms that matter to this country. During this time, we will discuss, and the Presidents of Parliament's parties, European affairs, parties, Members, politicians and so on, and we will fight for our own right in the various referendums, referendum campaigns, if you will. It is not only a matter of costs, but the question is also that we will all be occupied by preventing one another from being right and who is not at the television competitions, we will go out again in beautiful Slovenian places and convince people of our right. Well, there's obviously no time for key problems. There were no invitations from the President of the Government for any meeting on this, and we proposed that even the debate for the 2011 budget be announced in this Chamber, and I think that we will be invited to discuss important topics. That wasn't there. Last year, there were some development conferences where we discussed the key reforms that were needed. No more since then, actually. And what happens after the referendum? We will have low electoral participation simply because people have enough, and now for the third or fourth time with election participation, they will tell us that they do not agree with what we are doing. We will have at least as many interpretations of this result as there are political parties in this House. In the end, there will be no implementation of human will, as has happened several times at the referendums. Last but not least, it happened this year too, and let's remember the referendum in Ankara, and I think it's in the Peace oven. Steady, sorry. It's just the wrong world for me, and I don't understand it anymore. On the one hand, we cannot have enough political culture to discuss the key problems of this country and, on the other hand, we will have an infinite amount of time to deal with matters which, in my opinion, are not crucial for this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u47	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, honourable Members, honourable Members! In the SDS, SNS and, of course, together with our fellow Member, Mr Magajno, we have tabled a request for a legislative referendum. Let me say that it will not be forgotten that Mr Magajna, even because of these threats, if he does not support this law, has resigned from the Group of Social Democrats, and is now elsewhere. How come it's not true?Oh, my God! This is what Mr Magajna explained himself, read today's daily press or Reporter magazine, where an interview with him has been published, and you will see how this works. The RTV Act, created under the Janšev government, was sent by the opposition, led by the current Minister of Culture, Mrs Majdo Shirca, to the public's opinion. And so came the law or referendum on RTV, which showed that people supported this law. The will of the people was clearly expressed. The law on RTV was then confirmed, not only by the National Assembly, but also by most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. However, last week, when a coalition, like a tank, marched all those who opposed this law and, of course, voted, supported the law, the people's will was, in fact, voluntarily trampled at the referendum. And I think we have serious problems here, when we see on one hand the clear will of the people, and on the other hand the coalition, because it is in power and obviously can do what it wants, it adopts a law that is not supported by even those who are experts in this area. And why, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, together with the Slovenian National Party and Mr Magajno, we decided to give a referendum, is said to be a human judgment, a law drawn up by the Ministry of Culture, together with Minister Majdo Shirca. Of course, there are more reasons. The first reason I've already said is because of this ease, the already unbearable ease of arrogance when we don't recognize the will of the people. The second reason is for sure also that the professional public has not been taken into account, although today it wants to convince everyone, both politics and the public, that the professional public was still somehow involved in this law. And, of course, the third thing that seems essential to me is mainly due to the transformation of the status of the RTV company. I have worked alone for many years in this RTV house, and I can say that I know the situation in this institution well enough, and because, of course, I still occasionally keep in touch with the individuals who are employed there, I hear a lot of things, they tell me things, and of course we also talk about this law, and I must say that most of the employees with whom I have spoken are opposed to this law and are concerned, seriously concerned. In particular, because of the third point I mentioned earlier, it is due to the transformation of the status situation and, of course, I am also concerned about how you want to ensure political influence in the public institution of RTV under the patronage of Zares. The public office, as we have heard many times today, should not only be public anymore, but should act as a legal person of public law, but in the special status form of sui generis. The RTV is thus supposed to become a semi-public institution, in which case it would cover non-commercial content and, of course, a half-market facility which would cover commercial content or broadcasts. If not the least, but it is essential and important, this would certainly lead to unfair competition within RTV itself. So non-commercial programmes, here we are talking about cultural content, educational, scientific and so on, of course sooner than before, we should move away from commercial content, for example, what I know, anything is possible with us, maybe Big Brother and Agriculture and so on. Dear Minister of Culture, you yourself have worked in this house for many years. You must know her very well. All the recognition goes to you, you've done great shows about culture, I've looked at them many times, for them you've received a series of awards, so of course you're doing all the recognition. In short, as co-creator of the program, you must have realized how important it is that public television supports such content. You were also aware that even at certain times they should be given priority, although they do not reach a wider audience and do not make any profit. You were aware of this as co-creator of the program. Today I think the picture is quite, quite different. But I believe that you are still very well aware that while we remain in the cultural field, although these shows do not make any profit, such as some entertainment shows or some other content, they are of exceptional importance to the nation, which is also engaged and doing its essence with the help of culture and are also recognized abroad because of cultural artistic content, and therefore, for you, the distinguished minister has, of course, a more rhetorical question or not, I wonder whether you feel at least a little uncomfortable that your younger colleagues who are working in cultural regulation today will have to have their cultural mission and desire for some real, really good coverage of cultural content simply subordinate to commercial content. They will no longer be able to devote themselves so much to the content that is also important to the essence of this nation, but they will have to subject themselves to commercial content, because of course these content brings profit. That's how I see the whole thing. However, the key to this transformation of RTV is certainly the following: division into public and market share and thus the sharing of profits from this market share. To make it clear to all of us who are now following us, I will illustrate quite simply: half of the profits from this market work will be shared among five members of the administration, and the remaining half will remain among about 2,000 employees in this house. What does that mean by some healthy farm of intelligence or logic? Let's say that RTV through market work creates, let's say, 100,000 Euros of profit, and now I guess, I could do more, I could do less. This means that five members of the administration will divide each of them by 10,000 euros and each of the other employees will receive 25 euros each. Is that fair? Is that fair? Is that the social note that this government is cultivating? Is that really social justice? In my opinion, this is a joke from employees. With the 25 euros that they would get after this calculation, they can only buy a card, say, for 24-hour unlimited access to Big Brother's sightseeing, what's going on in this house. That's what employees can afford with that money. Even at the expense of our subscription, it is obvious that some individuals will be paying off fat contributions. And it is clear that the level of non-commercial content will suffer because, of course, it will be in the interest of individuals to do as much work exclusively on commercial content as possible, as these will represent and earn additional profits. In my view, the market share of this institution will thus drive out the non-commercial part, or more prominently, the culture will be driven out by Big Brother or some other similar content. And speaking of Big Brother, I read today in Reporter's week that Big Brother owns Silvio Berlusconi himself, which means that through Pro Plus or POP TV we have this happening today in Slovenia some kind of berlusconisation of Slovenia. And now he's obviously looking for a public RTV. That's the problem. And with this, Madam Minister, I think that we should take care of ourselves and then take a clear and public stand against it. Of course, it is not possible to ignore the provisions of the new law, where, according to the law, RTV must provide a wide range of content, programmes and services, as well as a quality and diversified offer to members of the national communities of the former Yugoslavia. Personally, I have absolutely no objection to ensuring some proportion of the content for these peoples as well, but I believe that this is something more substantial, which has a much broader background than just providing these content. I have a feeling that, on the one hand, the berlusconisation of Slovenia is taking place through the previously mentioned shows, which will obviously fly even to date by the Public Institute of RTV, that on the other hand there is also the balkanization of Slovenia, at all levels. And that's just because she's shopping with a voter vote. And that's one of the problems. However, it is interesting that the whole government is working on how to provide some content to people from the republics of the former Yugoslavia, but it is not concerned with providing salaries to Bosnian workers from Vegrad who have done their work properly, well, and should be paid for it. Not only have they been paid for but they have not been paid for their basic survival, but they have also been deprived of their own human dignity, of what should never have been taken away from anyone. And unfortunately these workers will have absolutely none of these contents. These contents that you now want to implement will not give them bread. Therefore, I am not surprised that, for the last time, the Ombudsman herself has made herself clear and has repeatedly asked whether we actually have a social state in this country and whether we still have a legal state. I highly doubt that! And also because of these matters that I have listed, I will support the referendum or the law on RTV for the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u49	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u50	Miss Eva Irgle, you said that according to a healthy farmer's mind it would be so and so I ask you not to offend a healthy farmer's mind, why not? [[...]] Because you need to read the law with common sense and then please listen to me so you won't repeat it again. So, how does this famous profit, as it has already been unfortunately explained today, that you are supposed to throw it like pearls to pigs, how does it divide? [[...]] [[...]] If there is a surplus of income over expenditure, then profits must be shared as in the library as in the Ajdov Gallery as in the museum as in kindergarten as everywhere. It has to go back, as it does in every public office, to public service. And let's say you said it would be a hundred thousand euros and let's say you went back to cover your public service work. Let's say it's covered, that the public service has twenty, thirty thousand euros minus. And he's going there, first he's going to cover the public service. However, if there is a certain remnant, because the public service is already covered enough, then all employees are divided as they are everywhere. When these funds are divided into employees in a certain percentage, which is recorded in the law and read it, please read it, it can also be shared by a five-member board. According to the logic of 100,000 euros, four thousand euros would come to the five-member administration. Also for the Supervisory Board, which, if there is a hundred thousand euros left and when public service is covered, when the funds are distributed to the employees, will remain two thousand euros. I don't know how much that's on a person if there's eleven. However, it is necessary to know that each member of the Supervisory Board guarantees his or her own decisions with his or her own property. And here is this, such a notorious hybrid story that measures at nothing but greater responsibility and greater transparency. Member of Parliament and other Members of Parliament! It's not the division you see yourself with your eyes. I understand, one of you has closer journalism to the other, and you see the division in the market and the public part. If I can explain it to you in a farmer's mind. Regarding concert activity, we know that RTV Slovenia has two orchestras. These two orchestras carry out a public service; by the way, concert activity is this time legally defined as a public service in the previous or now valid law or Grims. I believe it was a lapsus, because after all concert activity is defined as a public service, they are on pay and so on. However, when the orchestra does not perform something related to the activity of RTV Slovenia, it can be said that music equipment to Slovenian film can then be defined as a market activity. And what they will receive in this market activity will be returned to the public service. And that's actually happening right now. The same applies to archiving activities. When you go to borrow archive material, in one of the most valuable archives in Slovenia, you will have to pay for it with a visually very rich history. And this is so-called commercial activity. But is that Big Brother? Please. This is a loan, a fair one, to citizens and citizens, in order to reach certain content they need for various purposes, perhaps to make a documentary film, perhaps for something else. Look, I still have to refer to the last pay phone. You're saying that as a successful RTV employee, I was aware of what culture meant. Absolutely, and you did it well. But above all, I was aware, and because I believe that all those who may have similar experience, what freedom means, what autonomy means, and what it means to think with your head, and what it means when you run into thoughts that think with a different head that is not his. In fear of what will happen to the cultural content that will suddenly disappear with this law, Miss Irgle, take your marriage back into your hands, I will lend it to you. I think I have already said three times in this room, but it is not really half the room and it does not reflect enough out loud that it has not yet been in the history of laws that have dealt not only with the media, but with related matters, as clear and unequivocally defended national interest as it is with this law. Why? Because, at the end of the year, when a review is made of how many public, educational, cultural, educational and all other segments are covered in RTV Slovenia broadcasts, and it may be concluded that it is not defined to this extent as law, the management will have to "pack up", it will have to take responsibility and it will have to withdraw because it has not satisfied what you say, Miss Irgle, that it will no longer be. He has to defend the national interest. And here we defend him, and so please, read with your eyes open and do not think to speak, because you insult the law, us who dealt with him, and the people and the audience that you drive in a direction that is a lie that does not hold. It's not compromised. It's protected. And this, since 2005, we have been correcting those who thought and thought that what we now have was wrong. What have we done with this law? We just made order. To tell you what a minimum market activity within the nature of the work done there and what is in the public interest, please read this in Article 4. Accurately, it is also clear what has not been said so far. And I said that, say, the orchestras weren't, and there was something else. There's an exact delimitation, but why, Miss Irgle, when you're on the phone. A precise delimitation has also been made on what can be considered as State aid under European standards. The contribution is used for the performance of the public service, I stress once again. And the founder of RTV Slovenia is the Republic of Slovenia and cannot be privatized. It can't be privatized, so don't come up with fictional stories or badly defended stories anymore, because I'm also taking into account the possibility that somehow there's been some kind of misleading reading. There's something I'd like to say to previous interlocutors, because it's too easy, or it's too easy to juggle with a hybrid. I stress once again, and obviously I will become a parrot, it is only that part of the law that assumes certain provisions of the Company Act, which say that certain services and actions must be managed more transparently and more responsibly. However, it was also said that we would collect a contribution if, once again, the economic society or the elements of society were misinterpreted. All the countries of the European Union are more or less, I think that this is 99.8%, keeping an RTV contribution, or a subscription or a concession or something that means that it is not financed directly from each country's budget. Not to be judged by governments, for fear that they will give: "You will get the money if you are good if you speak as we wish." But it was introduced, as well as in other areas, by the so-called institute of contribution or subscription. In the Slovenian space connected to a certain arrangement, because it has proved to be somehow abstinence in recovery. This contribution is in European countries, as I say, all are meeting with it, regardless of the status form it is, greater than in Slovenia. The average in the European Union is € 184 per year; in Slovenia it is now € 144 per year. For example, countries with significantly higher public service benefits in the area of radio and television, for example, Austria has €199, while Denmark has €324 per year, Finland 193, Norway and so on, but the average in Europe is € 184, and the BBC and the UK are worth € 154. But these countries, I've told you many times today, they have different status forms, they're mostly limited liability companies, they're mostly share societies, they're mostly economic societies. France, Italy, Spain of limited liability, Austria Foundation of Public Law, is very similar to some of the arrangements we have in the future and so on. What is important and what is attentive to Europe is not in the light of the fact that there is an anomaly in terms of the special way in which the so-called RTV contribution is paid, but that Europe is literally calling, and that is also what it called when the Grims or the Grims Act were written, and from the Council of Europe we have full documents of how these funds are used, whether the contribution is frozen. We were advised to coordinate with inflation, at least here I am talking about different experts from the European Union and so on. And whether the State aid still granted by individual countries, including by the Slovenian Government, for certain segments that are lucky beyond this contribution, is not used unfairly or improperly as State aid. Here Europe has become very precise, not only for the public media, but also for the whole public sector, because sometimes state aid can mean certain anomalies in the market. In this light, it is only necessary to say that the systems that are in force, which have become established in this Europe and that we are part of this system and that there is no anomaly here, and that this is nothing, which is attributed to today several times in the light of commercialisation, privatisation or anything like that. It is only about granting greater autonomy to radio and television Slovenia, because it needs it, in the light of asset management, management of development and also dealing with new technologies, which are set up before certain new services that the law also talks about and which unfortunately RTV Slovenia is delaying, because it is too busy dealing with approaches that at least take too much energy at the moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u51	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u52	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister! The referendum is a legitimate right which the opposition does not propose to impose, but because it cannot or does not want the coalition to comply with the opposition and stubbornly insists on the proposed content and legislation. But how many referendums there are, it's always up to the coalition. Minister Majda Shirca warned that the law contains the necessary provisions of the European Union and the guidelines of the European Council, which must be implemented as soon as possible. However, the guidelines of the European Council certainly cannot affect the guidelines and objectives of the law, which is finally adopted by the National Assembly and which must follow fully the objectives of needs and requirements within the sovereign state of Slovenia. The law itself increases the autonomy of the public service in relation to the centres of political capital power in the field of information and the creation of programming content. The state-of-the-art transformation of the public institution RTV Slovenia into a separate legal person of public law and of special national and cultural importance does not convince us to be well-intentioned, as there are different opinions. RTV Slovenia now operates as a public institution that performs public service in the cultural and media field, the founder of which is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. RTV is only the owner of this state property. So far, no one has convinced us that the existing status form of the public institution is not professional and transparent, so I see no reason why the law should change and adopt a new one as set out in the amended content. The law on RTV was adopted and approved in 2005, and was also given to the electorate and the electorate, to the subsequent legislative referendum and confirmed in the context of the direct decision-making of the electorate and the electorate. It is noted that the proposed status of public and commercial content creates unfair competition within the Radiotelevision of Slovenia itself, which will cause conflicts among employees as commercial programmes offer more attractive topics. With the establishment of the Institute of RTV Slovenia 2, it would become a profitable organisation, which is contrary to the functioning and interest of the public institution of special cultural and national importance. A commercial activity would be carried out to the detriment of the public service, which is contrary to the purpose of establishing a public institution. People have made up their minds once and it's only right to give them a chance to make a choice. However, it would be right for the referendums to be brought together on a single referendum day and, if this is April 17th, I have no objection, because rationalisation is necessary and all parties should be identified to this point of view. However, the part that speaks of funds and content for people from the former "Southe" republics is the cheap collection of political points. The proof is that we almost all see many programs, from Kosovo to Croatia, "by cable or satellite". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u53	Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u54	Thank you very much. 21. 7. Five years ago in this Chamber there was a similar debate, as today, on the subject of the same law as today and the referendum on that law of that time. At that time, the referendum was the highest form of democratic expression of people's will for the coalition, i.e. for the opposition at that time. He was urgently needed, and he was the one without whom he could not go in this country. Today, when we discuss the same matter, it is exactly the same thing, even the same law that we are sending to the referendum, that is, in front of people, and in the opinion of many referendums, it is not necessary. Let us say, in the opinion of Mr Kontić, and some others who have debated. It's called how? The transfer of the coalition today and nothing else. Why referendum 11. 12. and why not 17. 4, someone even made fun of it as a flower Sunday, and I don't know what else. You know, on a flowery Sunday, maybe so many years ago, the most important decision came down in the country that people made. Indeed, we also had the elections of our first Parliament at that time. And I don't see any reason to make fun of you on a flower week, at least for some people, that means a lot. If not, it probably means them, and even this year’s or the upcoming flower Sunday, people are likely to be able to make a wise decision because there is no reason to insist on date 11. 12. if you want to save that 4 million or how much a referendum costs. But the more the problem is that we have to hurry up and get the old law into the tomb as soon as possible, so that the law that is more to the extent of the coalition will come. So this is the reason for spending 4 million and a referendum on day 11. 12. Look, sometimes it's hard for me to listen to some of the speeches from Zares, Mrs Orzmova talked about how the opposition is pushing you, how you have opposition problems in the coalition. In fact, this opposition is pressing constitutional charges, the moisture of interpretation, mistrust and so on. Then why do we have the opposition, then why do we have it if it forbids them, Mrs. Orzmova?Oh, my God! Well, it forbids her to play her constitutional role. And if I drive a little further, she wants a one-party system that was probably more used to it. In 2005, it was said that the Association of Journalists of Slovenia and the International Association had opposed, and the Minister had already addressed the topic of international organisations several times. Yes, you know, that's because you can export the topic out and then come back through the second channel with another signature, but the question is who exports it, how and for what needs it exports it. In 2007, 571 journalists also claimed that media freedom and reporting in this country were at risk. But today they're nowhere else, and today it's okay because "ours" are in power, so you. So it's not exactly what you're saying with these things. The adoption of this law was actually opposed by a whole bunch of institutions, a whole bunch of people, their representatives and so on. The amendments of journalists' unions were overlooked, cultural artists protested – no, you are not interested. Those who wrote the law stepped out of the group and said, "No, but we will not cooperate here." The law enforcement department said that the law isn't good for individual parts, but if it's okay for the coalition, then it's okay. But it's a perverse logic of the coalition. About the fact that the previous law did not fulfil everything that was said, say RTV subscription lower, it was the same for four years, multiply it by 4% or how much inflation, even more in 2007, and you will get one such result that it was lower by 25% to 30%. Yes, the lower the subscription was, by 25 to 30 %, so the previous law fulfilled what the authors of that law had promised either the electorate or the voters, the citizens. You know, all the speeches made by Madam Minister, but most of all I'm surprised by the way she attacked Mrs Irglovo, you know when a woman like that attacks her. That looked really bad on her part. All talking about how things are going to be independent now and how parliamentary parties have previously suggested beating up empty straw. Why? Today, too, Parliament is proposing, according to the law we are talking about, five members of the Council and two presidents of the Republic. Yeah, who are these people going to be? These, however, will be independent experts, in the image of Mr Kocjančič, former SD chief of the predecessor, in the image of Mrs Črnak Megličeva, who had previously been a civil initiative, is now a Member and so on. So it will be those, but the President of the Republic is one way or another, for example, in the case of the appointment of Mr Praprotnik's journalist where he named him to show his independence. You can paint someone else, not me. That's the independence. And so it will be in the future, the influence of the government coalition and nothing else on this institution's world will be ensured. I imagine, of course, the matter of RTV after the adoption of this law of yours, so-called, as it was seen there in 2004, or 2003 by Mr Anton Anderlič, who in Odmevo once told the leader, not that you will not ask me, but we did not agree on that and the microphone went off. It is said that the guest decides what the journalist can ask, it will probably be such an RTV. Probably. So it doesn't make it easy to talk about them that way. The minister talked a lot about how to do it, but now she's gone somewhere, telling the truth, telling the truth and telling the truth. Yeah, because that's the truth she sees quite by herself. You know, and when we talk about the impact of the government coalition on all spheres of social life, let me, Mr President, take a trip outside the agenda item just two sentences, and then I will end. Only two sentences that will really be short, because we're going to say more in Odessa. Look, when we spoke in this National Assembly about Mr. Schorley, you set out the criteria for who the President of the Supreme Court could be, that is, the one who condemned only the right and freed all the left, the other can't be. We now have a new candidate ahead of us, about whom I wrote some fourteen days ago, and then some media at least accused us of exporting some untruths abroad. Gentlemen, today, the Constitutional Judge, who witnessed the event, is Mr Jan Zobac, who said what this candidate was saying during the war and how he participated in the fight. You see the truth, that's what I'm saying, it could be who we see or who we don't see. And the coalition often doesn't see the truth, and that's it or we have different views on the matter. So much for me, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u56	On behalf of the proposer, I took the floor for moralizing my well-respected colleague Gorenak about how we talk to each other. I would just like to say that from the Weeknik, which he quoted earlier, but of course far exceeded two sentences, it might be good to see how in this week the writer speaks of three politicians as witches and what kind of insult could be spoken of, but it is not cynical. So much for how some clearly profiled media behaves towards left-wing politicians. This seemed necessary to me in the introductions because it would ever be good to think about who the attacker is and who the one who can then also count on getting a word back in the defense. Now why did I take the floor on behalf of the proposer? Mr. Gorenak also spoke of mocking the flower Sunday. Since the flower Sunday was first mentioned at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, I should say that at the time when we shook the dates offered, the date 17 was also mentioned. 4. and then it was mentioned, well, not to specifically look, it's a flowery Sunday. And in particular, one of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party said that the flower Sunday was nothing special, since it was not a national or commanded holiday and so on. So, those who have troubled or talked about the flowery Sunday should ask themselves why they have spoken this way, there has been no mockery of the flowery Sunday. However, if there was any comment that a flowery Sunday and spring may also be with some of the other political forecasts that we heard this year, that is not mockery, but merely a determination of the political context of the proposed date. Without mocking the board, it wasn't a mockery, but they wanted to attribute it to us. That's all I need to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u58	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! In the beginning, I would like to say that I have a feeling that some people have little trouble with this because they are not in this Big Brother who is now running on one of the commercial televisions and I would comfort them that it has occurred to me that Big Brother's most famous and famous are just coming and will be a colleague of Irgle and Mr Gorenak and Mr Jerovšek, everyone will have the opportunity to perform in this Big Brother. You just have to be patient, and everything's gonna be fine. Given that we are discussing a decision to be adopted today by the National Assembly, I would like to say or discuss more about the referendum than the highest institution of democratic regulation and also our relations, not least in the National Assembly. Perhaps today is an opportunity to say out loud that the Institute of Referendum, as we understand it among ourselves in this National Assembly, is just one of the tools and means for political manipulation, populism, the storytelling of conspiracy stories and more, and could also mention. In short, it is one of the tools of political accounting between political options, if you want the parties, and they do little to improve the situation, especially the situation that would benefit people. In short, people, voters with such referendums are placed in the position of arbitrators, who is right, whether they are majority or minority, coalition or opposition in the National Assembly. Last but not least, I believe that the referendum is the tool of the people, the electorate. It's their tool. And much less could be our means to this political reckoning. Last but not least of the referendums, you see that we are proposing Members, we, when we cannot agree on and harmonise with each other in certain legal solutions. This agreement on these marriage solutions does not, of course, mean that the opposition exercises its right at all costs and with all possible means. Of course, there is also a referendum among these funds, although the referendum is legitimate. And if the constitution and the law so ensure, of course, the opposition can propose it. The elections were not the last time people gave their votes to the parties sitting in this National Assembly. And after the elections, a majority and a minority were created in this National Assembly. I think most people have a responsibility to run the country. Of course, a minority or opposition is responsible for adopting legislation that works for people. I stress once again, and therefore I do not need to be abused, I will use this word, this extreme instrument, the institute of referendum, which I think is the institute of people who have the opportunity every four years to come to the elections. If people are not satisfied with some solution that most people have adopted here, they will not be able to tell their own story at the next election. However, if we have problems with a four-year term, but it's no big deal, you agree to shorten the term yourself, and we have a two-year term. However, every two years we have a national election and the cards will mix faster and perhaps the National Assembly will work more effectively. Now there is something else about the very content of this proposed law. My opinion is still, given the effectiveness and acceptability of the law that we adopted in 2005, we can – and you must also recognise those who oppose the current law – that was not the best solution in 2005 at that time. However, I will not list all the anomalies that have occurred until the enormous discharges she has written in her contracts to the management of RTV Slovenia, until that extreme anomaly. Therefore, in my view, it was high time to reach out to these anomalies with the amendment of the RTV law. And that is why this new status form of RTV, at least I see it that way, transforms RTV from a public institution into a standalone – when you speak and use the word hybrids, I will not use it, because in Slovenia we have a lot of such hybrids that function fairly – a separate legal person of special cultural and national importance. This is an important step forward, from an acute establishment to a new and more efficient management. I think it is right that, for some anomalies, those who run this public institution in the national interest bear, and the law prescribes them, sanctions that are also enforceable, not waiting for the end of the mandate. And those who say that this is the niche or the path to privatisation or commercialization would just ask – if you are watching a lot of national television, you are probably watching peaks or check out peaks. And see if RTV is already using some services that are external, external services of some legal persons, individuals, experts and so on. Isn't that what he's doing now? Take a look at this checkout, and you'll see who's on the show, whether it's a cultural show or an information show. And so it is if, of course, it has a maximum effect in the end. And I ask you whether this is privatisation and commercialisation, following the current law on RTV, which of course allows it. You'll say no. But how do you know that this new scheme and this status form will do it even more radically or otherwise, or I don't know what else. In short, I think that the referendum on this RTV Act is not the real niche on which the majority and minority could fight to improve the lives of people in this country. There are many other things that would, of course, be more priority than this Law on RTV.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Magajna has the floor as an unrelated Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u60	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! This is the first time I've heard from this new position. How do I feel? It's a little unusual. For my beautiful view of the hall, almost like the President of the National Assembly, but without the support, I miss that; even today, when I was making amendments, there were problems. I am grateful to the fellow Members of the Group. In addition, I must say that no pressure has been exerted on me in the Group of Members in order to go to this new place. Well, in the middle, there were differences in seeing the program. But would you still ask the opposition about it, would you be so tolerant of my difference on this side of yours? That's also a question. But this is a matter of logic for all large parties and groups. I understand that they want to have a homogeneous team that works to the greatest extent uniformly, and so I fully understand this logic. I also fully understand the logic of reactions under this law. I wrote, wrote and said: Let us not blind ourselves to any political option that wishes, but now I am moving on to this law and referendum that wants the greatest possible influence on the media. It's always been like this, and it will be. I'd almost say there's a little war in the back for influence. What is not in the media, this is not and cogito ergo suspicion, the famous Descartes sentence, could today translate "and media informationis" sum ergo suspicion, if you are in the media, if you are not in the media, this is practically gone, and the fight for the media will remain and we will not blind ourselves to who are better, but who are now those who will not, whose political options will not succumb to this temptation, submit to the media. I've spoken in this context for the last few days. Whether this marriage is more political or less, it's hard to say. I have opposed him for a simple reason because I do not want to transform public institutions into some semi-economic company sui generis and I will say as many hybrids as I can with the money of the contracting authorities and the common state property. It is good that this article remained, or that a colleague of Biszakova actually introduced it, and then this amendment was confirmed that RTV must be state property. I'm afraid of some solutions, let's call them hybrids or something, where some of the boundaries are erased. Maybe Mrs. Shirca will tell you where it says it again. It's all clear because it's in article 47 of the law. That's right. It accurately limits how much of the prizes will be distributed. But that's already controversial. Why even reward people who are paid for their jobs? What a cut. This percentage is even if we look at it by numbers, 5%, 10%, 15%, I think it's not, 15%, I'm going to look at it right over here I have the whole article. It looks small, but no one knows what the basis for the calculation will be right now. The basis for the calculation, that is in point 3, is the surplus of revenue over expenditure derived from the management of activities other than public service. What will be the extent of this? We don't know. It is also undeniable that we have introduced motive, motive, that certain employees on RTV will also strive for rewards in addition to their salary. I don't mind stimulating people to work, but in some way. This way I don't think it's appropriate. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr Magajna. Madam Minister Maja Shirca has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u62	Dear Member! I know you're sensitive to influence and challenge media freedom. In fact, it has always been in danger in the history of mankind, and some of the works also testify to where this is going. Let's just remember the citizens of Kane and the practices. I believe that many are itching their hands and that many are empowered into this sweet field of lust. But everyone burns with them. Only a healthy and honest relationship can hold. And that's what I'm advocating. I know you're sensitive, because even at the referendum five years ago, you pointed out that the rule of independent and good journalism with the law that Grimes then wrote was broken. And it's important to know. You're wondering why the rewards are, if they're already wages. The law only regulates the principle of how public service can also be filled with market activity if there is more income. Like, recently, this year was the World Cup. The director has increased the advertising flow. We know there are a lot of black holes out there, and I believe that the control council and the programming world will investigate these holes. After all, the former director's request to receive €75 000 for a good job is said to be a larger advertising space, which was by the nature of the fact that sports content was desirable and that these were exclusive transfers, he wanted the award for a well-paid job. If not for the software world, which has already been partially altered and which has not allowed these anomalies, it has prevented it. And once again, the sum paid for the public service award, which you would now like to return to the director, is given within the framework of the environment and within the framework of the status form and in the framework of the regulation that it is now. If it is not well controlled and if the authorities which need to be trained are not fair and do not engage in different spheres of interest, such and different if they do not point to this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloysius Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The debate on another referendum on the Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia is probably not the last or the last. What exactly drives politics into this? First of all, Slovenia is, obviously, a distinct society of two halves. And virtually all important social issues are facing an inevitable small frontal conflict. And you can't expect anything else on public television. Television is the largest medium, we say, of particular cultural and national importance. It is an information tool, preciously obvious, according to some and all, for every policy. This is how a respected legal expert, a former constitutional judge, explained in the monthly for culture, politics and economy in October 2005 who and why the first referendum on RTV needed and what side effects it was intended to achieve. He says, I quote: "It was probably the opposition that needed him after she lost formal power in the elections, but not the actual power. Now, without the levers of real power, it is not within the allocated political space. The side effects of a possible referendum victory that was not there," I would point out, "that this image would be blurred and would be an indicative and mobilisation factor of the entire left and a good motivation for consolidating these political forces. The professions, in particular those of one university," as she calls it, are evident that she was uncritically supporting the then referendum candidate. That's what he says. "This mission has played largely with the passwords on marriage drawback, on the end of democracy, on state instead of public television." Does all this sound familiar? It's the same thing, it's the same thing. In fact, and above all, it is the problem that Jani Virk described in the Views, at least for me. It's real. "The problem of public media in Slovenia is, in fact, the problem of the transitional deletion of the public sphere and the lack of awareness of the politicians of all guilty people how vital the public sphere is for the normal functioning of society." There is nothing to add to this, and in my opinion the law supports the above thought. So it seems to me, allow me in the parbola that Baron Münchhausen noticed this notice to the guests in the middle of the cold winter in the Russian village of the inn. Free tomorrow. Apparently, the imaginary trick wasn't without effect. But to his surprise, he was unusually soon exposed and overlooked. Guests with a subscription and a view were getting less and less, but there was still a relatively long talk about special purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u66	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. So I'm going to talk exclusively about the topic that is the theme of today's agenda. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u67	Mr. Jakob the Presect has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u68	Yes, I said that I would speak virtually exclusively about the topic on the agenda today, this is the Order on the Call for a Legislative Referendum on the Radio Television Act. We have already made it clear, as the opinion of the parliamentary group, that we have many critical comments on the law and we have also voted against the law, but we are also convinced that the law does not deserve a referendum, that the referendum is a major tool for democratic decision-making and that the inflation of referendums is certainly not favourable to this democracy, and therefore, in principle, we are opposed to such a referendum and to such referendums. However, given that this is a business simple category, a referendum or this referendum decision, we will not oppose it personally, and I will not personally oppose it, although of course I am strong against this referendum and continue to promise not to walk in Slovenia and speak for or against the referendum and will not waste time at that time for any propaganda, either in one direction or in another, because it does not seem important enough to me. Here, too, I would have corrected colleague Franz Yuri a little earlier when he said that the opposition was proposing another date for the referendum, several times already mentioned the flower Sunday or April 17th and that the opposition would have wanted to freeze this law by then. I must make it clear that we are part of this opposition, that we are one of the opposition parties or parliamentary groups and that we do not want to freeze or propose any date, nor December 12th, nor April 17th or any other. In the parliamentary group, we oppose the referendum, although it is said that we oppose a number of solutions in this law, but as it is said, such inflation and the implementation of such referendums is not in favour of democratic decision-making, one of the ways of democratic decision-making in the country of Slovenia. The Small Work Act is said to have been vetoed in the State Council today. It now depends again on whether he is confirmed or not to be confirmed in the National Assembly. Looks like there's gonna be another referendum. But once again we can see in particular the desire that students' services and student organisations' officials use or continue to exploit students. This is certainly the case, and I think it would be good for students and students to understand that too. In this inflation, we still have a number of anticipated referendums or laws that are being prepared, for example, the Family Policy Act. I will be critical here because the coalition or government will not withdraw some of the most controversial articles or contentious parts of this law. While the law is extremely good in most cases, especially necessary, it will obviously be again for this law referendum if we are to succeed in the adoption of the law in the National Assembly at all. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act states that there are only two possibilities in this area. One is to increase the contribution rate, which is certainly unacceptable for the walking Slovenian economy, or to tighten the retirement conditions. But in the coalition, you just can't agree to write a really good one, especially a harmonised law. Because believe me, if a coalition is not united in accepting one that does not have all the definitions and foresees all the consequences, then this room of manoeuvre or room for referendums and similar matters is immediately in hand. So, as we have already said, we will not oppose the referendum in the parliamentary group, although we regret that such referendums are taking place. As for two more such flowers, as far as one of them is concerned on one of the commercial televisions, I don’t mind because I just don’t watch such shows and I don’t care. The collection of RTV contributions through the list of owners of electric counters was also mentioned several times in today's debate. But I don't know why we're even having this problem because, I know, this is already the third law that provides for the collection of contributions in this way. I don't know if anyone has figured out anything better, I don't understand why they can't make a better proposal, but maybe a better proposal could also be passed and picked up this subscription, contribution or anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, Mr. Franco Yuri, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When I mentioned the opposition in my address, I had in mind the candidates for this referendum. And I apologize to the public if I've been so understanding. So I am grateful to my colleague Preseknik for explaining once again the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Robert Hrovat has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I must say, there is an interesting debate today in the National Assembly. But I am still somehow under the impression of the celebration on the reform day of a few days ago, when the festive speaker was Minister of Culture. And I was thinking if I didn't just say hello to you with "love Slovenians" but I won't. Dearly respected and respected present, believe me, there is no less love and warmth in these words that I have spoken now than in the famous Trubars. When I listened to the Minister a few days ago, I unwittingly pulled a parallel with the law that was already under consideration, we are now discussing the referendum. I was just writing down the thoughts that got to me that night. The fact is that happiness to the Slovenian people was generally unloved, both by foreigners, and too often also by those, thank God, rare individuals and individuals, who had their individual almost private interests so greatly blurred their view of the reality that the fog had also settled into the field of their minds and had at the moment turned it into a field of misunderstanding. This led to a general misunderstanding, and nothing was wrong with it. Mistakes become when these people want to be materialized by what they have not yet mastered, or by what they do not yet have. Here desire as a field of culture suddenly turns into a place of intolerance, intolerance to other thinkers, here freedom turns into something far from freedom, and dialogue into a monologue, usually those who think as suggested by those who want to put their passions into practice. The sophisticated and professionally unsubmitted reader is a cleverly disguised political manipulativeness that is woven into the proposal for a new law on RTV Slovenia is truly a typical example of total denial of a well-intentioned idea of how to unite without causing new divisions. The proposal for a new law on RTV Slovenia is a model of intentional creation of artificial polarity, which cannot in any way contribute to constructiveness and consequently to the effectiveness of any law, and in particular not to respect the diversity of all of us. How gravely vulnerable is the institution of the greatest national importance, which RTV Slovenia certainly is, is proved by the storms that have driven the ark of its existence from all four and many others, throughout its life. I will return to Trubar: And this ark stood and stood on the stormy sea of Slovenian general and political longings, especially because its existence was also decided by those who not only stood beside it, but with all their moral and general credibility they have cast their vote for its sovereignty, for its own autonomy and for its independence in planning all its ways. These are people whose words are expertise, honesty, honor, ethics, morality, truth and justice are simply sacred. And transforming now the Public Institute of RTV Slovenia into a sort of quasi-owned private hybrid will be nothing more than an indirect intervention to create a hunting ground for this most important informational, educational, cultural, electronic institution of the nation which will easily be granted some "this real" tycoon. It is a clear expression of the struggle of the existing political nomenclature for the full control of the central Slovenian television house. It is a clear indicator of the real intentions of people who hide their submerged political manipulative intentions under the cover of the common good and deliberately extinguish the light in the lighthouse of RTV Slovenia. I will now proceed much more specifically and I would like to ask, Madam Minister, that you listen because you said earlier that there are no arguments against actually. For the first time, the numerical contraction of members of the Council of RTV Slovenia, as the most important decision-making body, is the creation of conditions for pure political recruitment. Secondly, the terms and modalities of the appointment of members of the RTV Council Slovenia is an instrument of the rulings which allows them to completely control the composition of the world. One concrete example, according to the proposal of the new law of one member to the RTV Council, Slovenia appoints the National Council for Culture, which we well know is not only the ruling one, but also that its composition is determined by the ruling one. Why not define this member as a cultural chamber that is completely civil and not a political institution? Thirdly, a way of voting in the world, this is an eternal discretinist between two options, or let all present or all members of the world decide, and this ensures that the world is well managed. Fourthly, dramatically increased not only supervisory but, above all, the administrative role of the Supervisory Council and its powers can be said to be correlated with the way its members are appointed rather consciously after the actual political control of the operation of RTV Slovenia. Petič, a significantly reduced number of employees of RTV Slovenia in decision-making bodies, is essentially a clever manipulative political fraud of the actual influence of employees on the decision-making and functioning of RTV Slovenia far from freedom of speech and expression of a wide variety of opinions and views on things, on what is happening in society. The sixth, the appointment of the Administration and the Director-General, as well as the pyramidal appointment of all other responsible persons, of course including all responsible editors, are defined in a fully politically manageable manner. I think that is quite a few arguments, why the referendum should vote against this law. And the vulnerability of these social levers in our society is, of course, in the given situation in the country that guides and leads this government to the limits of survival of those who on our skin feel all senseless and self-serving and self-sufficient individuals and individuals of this government. When arrogance begins to trample on tolerance, when the senseless literally denies real developmental resolutions, when fear of telling the truth is cast into people's minds and minds at that time, we are respected and respected very far from Trubar's intention that people, the reader of his book, begin to think with our own head, sober and free, we are far from cultivating creative wings and creative potentials. We are in a time and space where even humanity is termed a multicultural conscious abuse of the space of national culture and a violation of the place of recognition of its historical identity. I will now say again, beloved Slovenes and beloved Slovenians, I am firmly against the proposed Law on RTV Slovenia. With the heart and with the soul, especially with the mind and with the mind, which is light years away from the butlers, whatever was spoken of before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Maja Shirca has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u74	Member, you have tried to be at least a little more specific than your predecessors but yet superficial still. And in the analysis, for example, if we stop only in the composition of the Programme and Supervisory Board, we are also incorrect. When it comes to organ contractions, it means that there is greater flexibility and greater efficiency. If we had twenty-nine people or members and members of the programming board before, we now have seventeen. The ratio, what's very important is the relationship. The relationship between representation of civil society, for example, and which is through the programming world as defined by the law, which you oppose 60% in favour of civil society and [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yes, civil society is one way or another, as you say, all things sold and so-called and so on. [[...]] I just believe in organs that have their spines and their professional minds. In the supervisory board, to finish, the Grimes is only 21% of the representation of civil society. This is said to be true if we have twenty-three members of the Programme Council appointed in the National Assembly, and six of them directly, while the proposal that you now oppose is called in the National Assembly 7, 10 directly, which means that there is a significant increase in the impact of civil society. However, since there has already been a speech and I am questioning civil society, let me immediately say that not beating the National Council for Culture, which, despite being called here, has consisted enormously, for me and probably for all other, professional and great authorities. From Mr Jančar, Andrej Jemc, Mitja Hočevar, now Mr Miran Zupanič and also Chandra, Zupančič, from directors, to painters, to thinkers and theorists, and by the way, these members of the National Council for Culture, which are critical today, thank God that they have a bold and proactive role to play when it comes to paying attention to certain things, have in the past pointed out the inadequacy and inadequacy of the regulation of RTV Slovenia. Even the obvious fact that these are called Governments is a reputable body, which every smart government listens to and believes, there is no meeting that would not have participated in and faced with their views, which are very strict and, of course, very constructive in the sense of alerting certain things not to the greatest extent possible, in their opinion, to a leading cultural policy. While among the ZDOS authorities mentioned today, if these are some strange people again, let me answer that the ZDOS, who will also propose its member to the Programme Council, consists of organisations from the Mountain Association, the Fish Federation, the Slovenian Engineering Union, the Tourist Association, the Association of Pensioners, the Union of Cultural Associations of Slovenia, the Union of Technical Culture of Slovenia, the Union of Youth Friends and so on and so on. In short, it brings together 18 or what, 20 different societies, and please don't have a mistrust of everything. However, if we continue to talk about the supervisory council, which has 11 members after Grims, by 5 being appointed by the National Assembly, 4 Government and 2 employees, the proposal of our composition, our supervisory council, where I have already told you five or six times today that they are responding with their assets and that they are very responsible, the proposal of our supervisory council, which counts as 7 members, is the following. 3 appoints the National Assembly, of which one will be appointed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances, led by your Member Visjak. Yes, it is. Because you can't define the opposition a little bit, a little coalition. You just have to tell me who's the competent one who needs to watch his fingers and here the commission that's competent to keep an eye on everything that's going on in this country is gonna be watching what they're doing on TV. And more. We also have two members appointed by the Programme Council and one god proposed by the Government. Yes, greater autonomy, please, because they're already telling us what's going to happen to this autonomy that this place really isn't used to. And, Mr. Ambassador, you frowned on my speech, it wasn't nice, you turned around, but you have artistic freedom, which I don't deny. But you forgot, by the way, the key words that I also said and said that the reform was about reforming certain things. Those who did not speak the truth, those who did not provide a good enough and constructive atmosphere and those who did not guarantee justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. You won't. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek. I know, but Mr. Jerovšek came here.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Respectable. Dear Madam Secretary! Madam Minister, in today's interpretation and defence of your RTV law, you are extremely vehement. You're using a dimension that's not based on facts and arguments. And you also use very unusual metaphors, although this is also your copyright and also your style. I remember last year's opening of Borštnik's meeting, when you used an unusual metaphor, I don't know if it was appropriate, "we have no fear of flying," Erice Jong. And today you continue to report to the candidates of the referendum lowly that they have not read the law, that they have read it superficially or that they are superficial. Even so far as you've gone, you've sent in an obvious message that the institution that Europe has kept, we want to sort of get rid of it, and you've said that it's hit by quick courts, all too much, too little verified news. We've been convicted of a quick trial, the "direct court" says Serbs, and you'll probably have a new law show because you're planning it, in this language too. And it's a very unfair observation that I won't use a worse term, Madam Minister, and there's an entire coalition somehow of this bravery and of throwing unjustifiable readings in the face. In fact, so much apology, so much laxness and blind insight into the law you tell him is good, I haven't heard it in a long time. You could say you're here telling stories about what kind of marriage and what status future RTV will have, but these are not fairy tales for a good night, these are fairy tales for a night without a dream. It is a lie that some themselves believe what they say and speak the untruths also at the expense of the current state of RTV. Who can say that the situation on RTV hasn't improved since the Robbery Government? Financially, it has become transparent and some personal things and relations have only been settled. But you predicted cataclysm, literally the day of judgment at the time of the adoption of that law. Tell us what has come true of your prophecies and your predictions of cataclysm, not only yours, Madam Minister, but you have done the most with this law and have been practically blinded at that time, and the whole mandate, blinded. Here today we have heard that Mr Saiovica is disrupting the information programme and has literally announced the defeat of journalists of the information programme and editors. And how can he say that this program is worse or is not professional or that it is worse than it used to be, but if these echoes get forever Victor, the fact that the information programs on commercial television have also been greatly improved and improved, but still wins. Mr Saiovic considers this to be unprofessional, insufficient, because he is politically disturbed, because there is at least as much independence, autonomy and autonomy as it bothers him, Madam Minister, the autonomy of all of you on television. I know you're going to end it, and it's not a superficial judgment, it's a perfidious, calculus written in the law. It is not immediately visible, and the censorship of the public service is one of the key purposes, censorship in the programmes, especially in the information programme, reporting. And tell me if it wasn't, I keep saying it and I'll repeat it again, whether, over the entire previous term of the previous government of Studio City, there was an exemplary opposition show where 70% were invited from your political sphere, and I would expect, I believe editor Štefančič that he is a professional, that he is autonomous, that he wants to be able to change his attitude with the change of power, that the opposition broadcast will be once again. No, it's government now, I'm sorry. Governmental, and villains in humorous shows are always politicians from the opposition side. The division of roles is so clear, in a perfidious way "humours" also someone from the coalition, but it is clear that journalists, editors and writers of texts are under the pressure of the current authorities that they must work for power already. And we can ask ourselves what's bad about them, Sayovic predicts to the pogroms of journalists and editors on the information program. You said the public service stays in the public service. He'll stay in the public service. Yeah, coalition, because you're uncritical. What is a coalition is the public. Before that, there's a civil public like this, and I don't know who, important, branded or famous personalities you've sold for a long time, and you're selling again as a civil sphere, public. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar, when she spoke of this, the conspiracy theory does not apply to us. Yes, their plots or your plots are saved, and others, if we're fighting for autonomy, it's a conspiracy. And look, don't say you're up for saving in this country. We have offered a referendum day, and you reject it by all means, you are in a terrible hurry with this referendum, because we have already read a bunch of pamphlets, propaganda organized, and this is how you try to win. And I must also reject the statements of Mrs Potrate, which I had heard earlier after sounding, how she made fun of herself on a flower week, as a symbol of Slovenian democracy. She wasn't telling the truth in that replica. She spoke very cynically about us inventing a third republic on a flowery Sunday. Let it be a shame that you have falsified your statement, no wonder that there is not yet a magnetogram from this session, no wonder, that you organized it so that you could not quote very precisely and allow yourself much already in this room, so censorship on TV will be perfect. I'm sure. And fear is such a censored RTV, for this is the first step towards eliminating democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I must admit that sometimes I do laugh sincerely and heartily in this National Assembly when I listen to the arguments of some Members and listen to what is evident to the coalition in drafting legislation, what conspiracy theories are all behind and who has an impact on anyone in this country. I really don't know if we have the same information, or if we're pretending things our own way. I'm more concerned that the content of this law doesn't matter at all. It doesn't matter what the bill says. It's an important date when we'll have a referendum. And don't hang the government and the coalition to rush this referendum. Listen, the procedures are moving on. You are proposing a referendum in the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian National Party. You suggest that all the joint referendums to be held in the future focus on a single date, which is April 17th, if these referenda are to be held. Listen, we're not on the lottery, so we're just gonna set some dates for possible referendums that are supposed to happen. You are responsible for the convening of this referendum, you want this referendum and the referendum will follow procedures on December 12th. And to make it clear that anyone who's crazy is doing it from a flower week, I think, just as little over the edge. If anyone wants to take advantage of a political flower Sunday, it's just you. All possible referendums, which you will surely hold and want to support, will be organized on April 17th and then try to make a big road in Slovenia, organize people on the streets, however, it is said to make some negative picture in this country. In this way, I'm sorry, it's completely wrong to imagine democracy. Why should it be important? Because, after all, we decide on the public RTV law. And since you are not interested in the content today, you were not interested in the content even when we had the referendum on RTV. If we just look at your flyer what you promised people with the RTV Act: for a more varied and quality program of public broadcasting, let people decide it for themselves if it is true. For a more cost-effective business and a smaller RTV contribution. For a more cost-effective business and a smaller RTV contribution. Where is he? For more culture, good entertainment and more quality information. People should be able to judge that, too. For the same criteria for all and for balanced and professional reporting. Everyone probably has an opinion on that too. In order to be able to manage RTV Slovenia, everyone who pays it participates. Where? And maybe another one, for the right of people to be aware of how their money is spent. Have people been informed about how money was spent on the leadership awards you set up? I don't think so, or I'm sure you don't. But the key is content. What the new law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia brings. First, because we were faced with some arguments earlier. In particular, members of the peoples of the former Yugoslavia are mentioned as communities for which RTV Slovenia must prepare programme content. Accusing anyone who does not know the Slovenian language, that it is not possible for RTV Slovenia to do this for these members is extremely unrealistic and offensive. These are citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, these are people who pay RTV contributions. And ranking them on, I don't know, yours, ours, however at least rude, but also extremely offensive. It is also explicitly stated in the new law that the only founder and owner of RTV Slovenia is the Republic of Slovenia. So much for the counter arguments concerning commercialisation that the RTV plant will become commercialised that these will no longer be content intended for the general public. Thirdly, it is explicitly stated that public RTV ensures autonomy, pluralism, freedom of opinion and so on. It's an amendment that you've proposed so, by the way, by the way. Fourthly, the provision of quality music content and music production become part of the public service. Fifthly, the third parliamentary programme is maintained within the framework of the public service, which has always been clear that it will not. Sixthly, the national communities appoint one representative to the world directly. Initially, only one directly through the President of the Republic has been adopted, at the same time, an amendment which provides that the National Community Programme Committees shall give their consent to the appointment of national programme managers and administrative decisions relating to national programmes. This is also a proposal from national communities. Thus, the wishes of those most likely to be included in these proposals have been taken into account. Week, the powers of administration have been complemented by the provision of professional education for RTV staff. And eight times, members of the Disability Programme Committee are proposed by the National Council of Disability Organisations and not representative of the Disabled Association, which is also a proposal for persons with disabilities. To say that changes to this law are merely politicisation or to frame public RTV for some of the interests of some political options is wrong. And so perhaps you need to support the Minister here who speaks, take the law into your hands and read it. Once again on commercialisation, there was a lot of evidence that this would now be very commercialised, that we would be facing some Big Brother even on RTV if someone felt frustrated that he was not invited to this show to complain where this broadcast was being created, but not to spread these debates in the National Assembly. And what is important against commercialization? The safeguard against commercialisation is the third paragraph of Article 5 of the proposal, which provides that each year the Administration shall prepare a report on the provision of a majority share of cultural, artistic, informational, documentary or educational content. And if the majority of these content under the programme is not provided, the Council shall initiate a procedure for the discharge of members of the administration. It's a fuse that's made and, of course, it's true. The next safeguard is that revenue surpluses over expenditure are allocated to public service activities. Greater responsibility, much greater responsibility also lies with the authorities of RTV Slovenia, because what has now taken place in the field of some financial fraud is almost not stupid or even perverted. As far as politicisation is concerned, the earlier talk was to politicise public RTV television for the purposes of a political option. See what happened today with the appointment of the world and the oversight council. The Minister has explained several times before, and it will obviously be necessary to repeat several times in the National Assembly in order for people to understand because the referendum will decide on important matters, not on the arguments that you are using today in the National Assembly. The new proposal is therefore a world with seventeen members no longer a world with twenty-nine members as it has been so far. Of these seventeen members, under the new law, the President of the Republic, one on a proposal from religious communities, one on a proposal from the Association for the Protection of Human Rights, five national councils, one SAZU, NSK, non-governmental organisations, the Union of Social Organisations, a Rector's Conference, three appoints a Council of Workers, one Hungarian and Italian National Community. Why did I say that? Because I want us to understand the difference between what's going on. Before we had twenty-one members of the Council, that is 72% of the members were appointed by the National Assembly. This is politicization, which is now in the existing law! Of these twenty-seven, sixteen named them on a proposal from the universities a civil society which, in your opinion, is politicized to the end, five on a proposal from political parties. There's no such thing in the new marriage. The possibilities for political parties to appoint their members under the new law are no longer, and I am talking about depoliticisation rather than politicising public RTV. Thus, 72% of the proposed arrangements are appointed by the National Assembly, under the new law only 29%, five out of seventeen members appoint the National Assembly on a proposal from NGOs and so on. Even in the Supervisory Board there are differences, after the current law, most of the government has had with the National Assembly, and now there can be no more of these accounts because we are talking about at most three of the seven that the current ruling set can have. So this is where your argument about politicisation falls, too, there can be no politicisation, at least not after this key. Mr Grimes earlier in the past, at the time of the adoption of the law, spoke about the fact that this was the law for which the most financial means were used. A dear marriage with many professional opinions and so forth. Once again, one of the deceptions of the public. The Ministry of Culture paid EUR 26 000 200 for the Media Act and for the RTV Act Slovenia. I'm just going to give you a brief description of what you were doing in your previous term, and here today, we're going to be talking about thinking about morality, that people don't have anything to eat, and that what the state of the country might be like, you know, almost shame. 135 000 euro co-ordinator for intercultural dialogue at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 49,000 Euros Proposal for a Higher Education Act, 49,000 Euros Ports Act, 49,000 Euros Road Means Act, 48 000 Euros Public Roads Act, 47 000 Euros Insolvency Material and Procedural Law, not to mention numbers. These are your numbers from your mandate, which is why the budget money was spent, the taxpayers' money, and the government's report to this ministry, this government, to act incurably, I think, is wrong. Let me finish, so I won't be too long. You also argue that under the new law, employees in a public office will no longer be civil servants. You object to this, you say it's not right, it's not the right direction, you really oppose everything that's being adopted in the National Assembly. But I just want to remind you of one fact. Whenever we accept something in the National Assembly, you are against or take advantage of this position of yours, the situation of speaking out against, whether it is good or bad. It is written in 2002, Rajko Gerič: "The classification of journalists as public officials is in total contradiction with the provision of independent and free journalism. Journalists of the RTV Slovenia Public Institute together with all employees due to the arrogance of politics and to my misunderstanding of the matter by some trade unionists have become public servants". So here the journalists objected to becoming public servants, now that they are not public servants under the new law, you object. You object to what Mr. Janez Janša agrees in essence because he said: "Only this fact indicates that journalism somehow does not fall within this category. At least so far, I think that there has been a unified view in Slovenia that journalists are not just officials and not public servants, nor social political workers, nor are journalists on public television anymore. But it sounds very unconvincing to argue that we're protecting journalists with this. It's unconvincing because the press are against it. From history, we have very poor experience of protection in cases where someone who didn't want to protect you was protected." Mr Vizjak also defended the same position on the show. By at least unifying your position when you oppose a marriage, a position, or at least look, you do not need to look back far, look back one 5 years and then insist on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mag. Please choose Majda Potrat on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u80	Thank you. Although I am sure that nothing will hold up if I return my calls, but because of those who listen and because of the magnetogram that will be published, it is necessary to say so. We had an urgent meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth on Friday morning. That was, after noon, the meeting was over, and then it was the holidays. Today's the first day of work. So much in this regard and I am pleased that some opposition Members attribute so much power to me that I can influence when the services of the National Assembly will write a tapegram and when they will not. However, the rules allow even documented evidence and record to react within three days to the wrong record in the magnetogram. I am convinced that some long-standing Members know these procedures and know how to react. But when we talk about how someone reacted and what they said, I said that it was a political context on April 17th and a flowery week and that no one at the committee meeting on that date was making fun of it, whether Mr Jerovšek wanted to hear it or not, but Mr Gorenak was not at that meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today there is at least a minimum possibility that we will really talk about the decree, namely the date. As you know, the SDS Group, the applicants of the request, not the decision-makers, of course, propose that this RTV referendum be held on the RTV Act on 17 April on a flowery Sunday. Half of this argument can be fully agreed. The fact is that this referendum is not so important that it should be carried out immediately at night, that, in fact, if I continue this story, it does not matter at all and most if it had never been carried out, not on a flowery Sunday. Therefore, if we can attach the first half of their argument, we must reject the second half. In fact, if the referendum is irrelevant and, in my opinion, unnecessary, it is all the more important and necessary for a new law on RTV. And since this marriage is necessary, however, an insignificant referendum must be carried out as soon as possible, and that is, if not before December 12th. Not only because the entry into force falls from 1. 1. 2011, which is extremely important if it were in mid-April, we should re-adopt the law with a new entry into force, probably from 1. 1. 2012, and this could in principle be a new law, something else. Also because, in my opinion, it creates the right and well-organised form, which is flexible and at the same time allows the exercise of a public function and the control of this public function and, above all, advocates and guarantees freedom and autonomy of work. One of the important elements of journalism autonomy is that they are not public servants. I won't talk about it again, but I can talk about it another time. Of course, it is also an interesting idea of the so-called referendum day or, in this case, to have a referendum on April 17th, on a flowery Sunday, and then to save up on costs, any other referendums that will appear negligently, a small work law, a pension reform, a family code, whatever. Colleagues and colleagues, my opinion is as follows. We'll have five more meetings by then. For example, if we adopt 15 laws at each session, and if from 15 laws at each session our colleague from the SDS Group, so that we do not accidentally think of any other opposition group, only 5 laws strongly oppose, we will have 5 times 5 laws in this referendum and something else. Who can guarantee this won't happen? I have two years of experience in this House myself, and if any of my fellow Members of the SDS say so, that will not happen, I say, I do not believe. I don't believe in your "fair play" because I've never been to one before. That's my point, that's how I look at this thing, and it's the right thing to say. We can have 25 laws, why not, but let's talk about why we're here, why we're the supreme legislator. I don't see the idea of referendums as you imagine, I don't see it, and I don't understand it. The law is being adopted, they say we can clean it up with the staff. Cleaned up with the frame? Um, yeah. Remember, comrades! Anyone else remembers the name Boštjan Ljovic – I apologize for these names that I will mention – Tanja Starič, Ilinka Todorovski, Simona Raku. Does anyone remember that Vida Petrovčič runs only a club, otherwise very viewed and very interesting club, the North Club. That Janja Koren is no longer performing where she used to perform, and so on. Cleaned up with the frame? With what frame? Who ever cleaned something up? Tell me and explain to me who's on TV and who's not. Which one of those reporters was so bad he had to go? Tell me! Cleared from the frame, nice! I'm glad my colleague Magajna is here, and I'm less glad he can't, at least not right now, answer, because I think he's running out of time. However, Comrade Magajna spoke publicly on television, in Odessa, that the halls say that this law is adopted as a pretense to be cleaned with a frame. The hallways don't talk, they say the hallways just listen, they don't talk. So people are talking. And if this statement is to be credible, then tell me who these people are. If you don't tell me – you don't have to now, because you won't be able to, at any time, anywhere at night, by email – if you don't tell me those names, I'm going to say that this is just a rhetorical figure with which you're supposed to put your statements, which you're not prepared to defend as your statements. That's all I'm gonna say. And now I'm sorry that I can say some things that I would rather not say, but it would be good if one of my colleagues in the Group of Members did say, but still, it's about the real and real tycoons, even today, Ultra was mentioned, all of these things, as it has already been through protocol and procedure, but it has to be done. Some of the people who were in the party really took over certain public functions after these elections. They told me one thing, wherever they came, they ran into your tracks – on your tracks. I'm just going to use this term. I don't have another term. I apologize for following up on your predatory strategies. Luka Koper – 220 million liquid assets were at the time of the appearance of your suit, if I may say so, there was nothing left when she left. Intereuropa, sale Sija, public order Patria, interesting purchase and sale of a thermoelectric power plant in Bulgaria and so on. Gentlemen, Telekom, to get him to sell something, there's nothing to pick up from Telekom for a long time, Mr Tanko, and no one will pick it up. I'm sorry if I can be ironic or cynical, but I'm afraid that fits with Zares, for real tycoons after four years, yours, there's nothing left, and from this point of view it's even good. But it's not good for the national economy. And now let's move on. I wouldn't do that either, because I'm not commenting, I'm not giving my opinions or my opinions about Big Brother, not anyone else, but anyway. Colleagues and colleagues. 14. Ten. 2010 was the second round of parliamentary elections, or not parliamentary, mayoral elections. I also sat in front of the screen at five, three, and I heard what the election was like, and really, at five in the reports, I think it was five not three o'clock, I don't remember any more, we were told some other things, but the camera was walking around some places where the second round of elections was going on. And this camera also walked around Domžal and caught a random passant and asked him what he thought about the elections and so on, and he said that the old mayor was doing a crazy bad thing, that he sucked and that he needed to be replaced, and his companion, maybe his wife, or something, added something else. The name of the date came up, and I remember that well, because I remembered that, the name Tomaž. I said, a little strange, pre-election silence as to how to make such a statement directly to the media. And I said that someone who had overlooked, without evil intentions, and so it remained until, and now I couldn't verify this information, independently, until someone told me that this Tomaž was, believe me, so I heard it, I hope it wasn't true, but so I heard, if anyone told me, I will immediately apologize that this Tomaž, no one else as the head of the electoral headquarters of our esteemed colleague Robert Hroat, who ran in the second round. What a coincidence. Among all the passents in Domžal, the camera is supposed to capture the very head of the constituency of Mr Robert Hroat's esteemed colleague. I'm going to be smooth, now I'm going to say I'm sorry if this information that I haven't checked from the other hand, I couldn't verify, it's not accurate. But, please, if this is the one, I'd say justice and truth, then that's the way it is. Someone who changes who this TV is from should never be from. That's the first thing. And our job is that politics deals with the public being strong and firm, but it does not deal with who are the best journalists and who reports. And that if they report, they report the same for everyone. With regard to the vote on the decision, because some of my colleagues have announced that they will vote against or even the quorum, I say, although I think that the referendum is unnecessary to vote in favour of the decision, because I am voting and exercising the right, the constitutional right of 30 Members to request and obtain a referendum if they so wish, they have taken responsibility for this request themselves and I will exercise the constitutional right by pressing yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, I don't know why please? [[...]] Yeah, but you weren't mentioned. Mr Jerovšek, Mrs Darja Lovtišar Bebler has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u84	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. In fact, it is very difficult to perform after this performance by the President of the National Assembly, who performed here as a Member, because he has said a lot of what he would like to say, but probably not so well, and I must say that I am signing under every word he has said here today. I think it's right for us to pour ourselves pure wine, as our people say, and tell things as they should, as they should be called. I also think that the referendum is certainly a form of direct expression by citizens, which is exceptional. That's why we're supposed to make an exception. It costs a lot. The participation of voters and electorates is generally extremely low. When it comes to highly sophisticated content, as is the case in this case, voters make their decisions primarily on the basis of the arguments that are most convincing in the campaign for it, but they can also be quite cheerleading, and before that, Comrade Levanič made a good point of what the previous coalition at the referendum at the time of the current law promised voters what would be good for Grims' law. Today, we know that none of this has come true, or almost none of this has come true. At the very least, to later watch a better programme and a politically impartial programme. But what the experts of the Council of Europe have predicted has come true is that this law is a recipe for disaster. Catastrophically poor are some shows, we have the opportunity to watch every day and monitor every day, in particular pleasure programs, information programs are often political fans, and a careful selection of guests and opinions is also appropriate, and each day is getting more and more yellow. In the current coalition, we sincerely believe that the new law is good and significantly better than it is now. Part of the opposition, however, demands a referendum on it. Okay. You've collected 30 parliamentary signatures and there will be a referendum. I only hope that after you have requested a referendum, you will not be able to report to the coalition that it places the burden on the decision on the difficult case on the shoulders of the electorate, as you did in the case of the referendum on the arbitration agreement. I'm sure you remember that very well. It is probably not such a minor fact that the implementation of the referendum costs more than EUR 4 million, which, dear colleagues and colleagues, could be used for something more important in these times. In particular, let me stress that there has been a qualitative and sufficiently long public debate on this law. However, the proposer took into account a number of proposals and initiatives, in particular those made by the professional public. That is why the new marriage is more credible than the previous one. That is why I believe that the proposal for a referendum on this law is in conflict with the common sense of agriculture, and there has already been some talk about it today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u86	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party we estimate that the law is not good enough. We also assess that it is unnecessary and that is why we have always opposed this law, but, as it is said, the request for a subsequent legislative referendum has submitted with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia a sufficient number of Members and the proposal for a legislative referendum on RTV will not be opposed because we respect this standard. The world really needs change, the world needs a new social order, also in Slovenia. And it is also necessary to change laws if we are to get into such a situation. Today, there was also much to be said about the profits of this institution. I must say that I think, as the Minister has already said, that it is primarily shared within the institution first, and then something is shared both in the administration and in the board of directors and in the supervisory committee. I think that there is no need at all for this profit to be shared among those who are already well paid for their work, and this is already quite a stimulus to work in a company where they regularly receive monthly income, but I do not say that they would not be able to go to one part of the profits even in that stimulating part of their personal income to motivate employees in these institutions, both for a good job, both for a good payment of taxpayer money, money from subscription and so on. You know, I've always met with that when we talked about how we could limit these unrealistic appetites of people who run institutions that run such businesses, "yes, well, then you won't have us managers anymore, but we'll switch jobs, and we'll go work in the private sector or even abroad." I would very much like to see where those services are for such successful entrepreneurs who run them, I can say in this case companies that have a monopoly. In the same way that I now object to the sharing of profits between this management staff, in the way that we are currently discussing, I think that this applies to other institutions as well, and that this surplus, which is being created, should flow into the budget and then be placed by the state in the spirit of a good master, into those segments in which the state needs at that point. At the moment, we are in severe social distress, we have a problem with pension legislation, and I think that this would be a resource that could be well-trained and help overcome the financial problems of the country, not just the problems of RTV, as I said, even in which other institutions and businesses could be implemented in the same way. Today I have also listened to the division on yours, ours, theirs and the like, I think that television is ours, and as in ancient times we very much liked watching our children's television and that Zik even, at the time we were so fond of being there, and I think it's not exactly a comparison of how this television should be ours, but we have to feel it as ours and that everyone wants their share of the content that citizens and citizens expect. When I say we are all ours, yours, I claim we are all ours, but between us there are nuances and it is right that these nuances and this should also enrich our society and this patience to bring these things and the general climate to a real level, otherwise we will need a lot more time to do so, it is also true that time is difficult and that in such difficult times it is difficult to regulate, but it is necessary to manage them, because I am sure that even better times will come and why we should not settle when we have things ahead of us, really well, with good law and lead this television to the fact that it will be our television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor. He won't discuss it. Mr. Vito Rozje will not discuss it. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. So when we talk about the Law on RTV and the referendum in this law, there were a lot of words to say that with the new law we will address the weaknesses of the previous law, and no one has said anything wrong, except that the RTV contribution is cheaper. Of all the others, no analysis or explanation of weaknesses, what was wrong, we did not receive. Perhaps it is a weakness for you that the RTV house has finally worked positively, without a minus which is very significant for many institutions and agencies owned by the country, because, of course, this minus is how we all cover together or co-financed by the state, read by taxpayers. And you have to admit to Director Guzei that he has been trying to make sure that he has the resources he has been operating economically, unlike this government, which he spends more than he has, and he doesn't really care about, but he takes credit, and that's it. However, in my view, the new law has some weaknesses, mentioned several times, I will not say hybrids, but something that will be organised in part under the Law on Institutions, partly under the Law on Economic Companies. So what we prefer, what we prefer, we take from the Company Act, which we like from the Institutes Act, and we take from there. For example, we like it, you do, profit sharing and we will now take it from the Company Act because successful managers, of course, deserve high rewards, share profits. At the same time, we will, of course, increase the administration from now on three members to five members so that something else can be divided and rewarded for their successful work. So far we have had three, the Director-General, the Director-General of Television and the Director of Radio in the administration, which certainly also means that there are clearly shared tasks as opposed to now that the law does not specify which area will be covered by which member of the board. We can speculate that everyone will probably deal with everything, but of course no one will be responsible for anything, or it will be very difficult to point out with a finger to someone who has misguided television or has misguided radio. Otherwise, the law lays down the personal responsibility of the members of the bodies, members of the administration and the supervisory board. They shall be liable in accordance with the rules governing the liability of members of the management and control body in the participating companies. I think that we have a lot of experience in Slovenia with such and similar matters, and I find it hard to believe that someone will really be responsible for anything, because this does not happen in any more clearly defined companies with all the apparatus, inspectors, the judiciary and everything we have in this country to take care of these things. I have already said many times about surveillance that we are so weak that we should ask ourselves, above all, about it in all areas. The law also provides that financial supervision will be managed by the Supervisory Board while the content is supervised by the Board of the Institute. After experience, it usually happens that everyone wants to influence something else that doesn't happen to him and I'm afraid it's gonna be similar here. You're predicting a reorganisation that won't be very expensive, it won't cost much, but it's usually about reorganizations by costing a lot, half things don't work out then like we imagined, and then six months later, we're working on repairing and complementing bad solutions. In the beginning, I said that we should take what is right for us from a story, perhaps even a contribution is right for us, when we do not have to make a special effort and every month it drops so much. We take this, but we don't like it. And we're used to it in this country being the fault of John Janša, it's all very funny. This also makes us very weak on various scales, but of course we are not bad because of the actions of Ljubljana Mayor Zoran Jankovic, who is suing the journalist Finance, we are not bad because of Ultra, co-ownership of Minister Golobic, who also accuses quite a few journalists. Journalists spoke of a number of pressures on the media during the Ultra affair and the Bulmastifs, we know that Trenja has been suspended on POP TV, replaced by the responsible editor of Channel A, probably all these things affect where we are on various scales. And there is much talk about the many pressures that various journalists are talking about. And when some of you listed names, if you remember them, there's probably a lot of people who don't remember the journalist Mezka anymore, who's been fired from the STA and all the sequels to it. We're probably just going to ask ourselves next year when we're going to fall even lower, whether it's because of Juret Jankovic's threats to the journalist Finance, and what's happening to us right now. But as always, the on-call guilty party will remain one and the same. The minister said that with the new law, journalists would be independent and independent. I ask her which of these was not, or any concrete evidence that the journalists were not independent or that the institution was not independent and what was wrong with this. Just say that something is not good, that the law is not good, and that everything is wrong, and turn the whole thing upside down, that it will be ours and that it will be ours, but not the way it turned out at that time. No one, as it is said, has been told the specific weaknesses of the present law. But it is true that laws always change, and things can always be improved. I'm not saying that everything was perfect, but then those things are fixed, but not that things turn around, and then we're all going to deal with the consequences again. I support the proposal for a referendum, of course. With regard to the imposition of dates and the terrible talk of how expensive this will all be, and I don't know what, you would expect to support the referendum day when we decide on a single day on a number of things. According to what the President of the National Assembly previously said, in accordance with Article 33 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, since the date of the call, that is 4. 11. 2010, until the day of the vote, it shall not be less than 30 days and not more than a year. Well, we could have a referendum in a year, and everything would still be fine. That's why I'm going to support the proposal myself. I also suggest we think about the days. Don't tell us how we know what laws are still going to be at the referendum. You are much more observant when you keep telling us what laws we will still consider and see in this National Assembly, and years will pass before anything happens, which is nowhere to be seen.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs Majda Potter immediately, just to explain, because Mr Tanko objected that it had not been properly called on by the President's table. So, with regard to Mr Daniel Krivec and Mr Jerovsk, I called Mr Jerovsk first because he came and asked me to replace them if Mr Krivec was not there. When I saw Mr Krivec in the Chamber, I called him first, and Mr Jerovšek called to give him a head start and gave him one. So there was no complaint and nothing wrong. As for Mr Branko Marinič, he was not registered here in my record as cancelled. And please, at least be so kind as to believe that we are not doing anything on purpose to the detriment of SDS and your client. The word has magic. Majda Potter on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u90	Thank you. Since the Committee is the one who proposes a decree, it is necessary to reiterate some of the facts which the Committee obviously does not know because it was not present at the meeting. When I proposed a date for the December 12th referendum, the call for a subsequent legislative referendum was concluded among the candidates. And then they based the merger of several referendums. By saying that we should consider those who wonder how many referendums we know in advance. Let them ask their colleagues who have proposed such a solution. The proposed committee decision was not adopted on 17 April. Therefore, the date proposed is the date you have in the motion for a decree. If you want to know any more about the voting details of those who were not present at the working body meeting, let me say that even two of the candidates voted against the decision to call for a subsequent legislative referendum because the committee did not adopt their proposal for a referendum on 17 April. So much for acceptability or inadmissibility. I am obliged to say this because none of the coalition Members and Members felt that the referendum did not have to be declared because we are aware that, by constitution and by procedure, 30 Members have this right to request a referendum, which we do not consider necessary by the coalition alone and many of my colleagues. So much for voting on what happened and what didn't happen. Allow me now, but it is also necessary to say because we discussed these things on the committee, because we discussed them in the National Assembly, because it has already been explained several times that I remember that two colleagues, colleagues and colleagues were not telling the truth when they claimed that they would share profits from market activity. When you are angry at someone who doubts that a person has read a marriage, it may be doubtful that you have read a marriage because of what you say in the provisions of the law cannot be written down. Firstly, the contribution is not a direct budget income to be treated, and we pay it individually. You know how to use some term "electrifier." But now what needs to be said is that surpluses from the management of all activities are earmarked for the management of activities managed by RTV Slovenia as a public service. At the same time, it is possible, under the conditions that the public service quotas achieved are achieved, once again, to say that they are covered by all financial obligations, after which it is only possible to share profits and how, please. First, the staff, then the management and ultimately the supervisory board shall receive a share of the surplus and this reward shall not exceed 10% of this base, the surplus of revenue over expenditure from commercial activities, when the revenue deficits in the public service are covered, therefore. The share income shall not exceed or shall not exceed 10 % of this base and the prize distributed by members of the board and the Supervisory Board in certain relationships, the management of more than the Supervisory Board shall not exceed 50 % of the amount allocated to the remuneration of the staff, i.e. half of the income goes to the staff, then part of the administration and part of the supervisory board. By politely asking that you try to take these facts into account, it is transparent how income is shared. The Minister has previously demonstrated precisely how high these prizes can and are not as high as the Director-General has now wanted to enforce them and let me draw attention to something else. The Management Board, the Supervisory Board, the Editors, the Management Officers shall not receive a prize for months in which they have not fulfilled the monthly obligation to provide quotas of content by law. If these quotas have not been reached at annual level or once in one year three times, they shall not have the right to a prize. Please, these are guarantees and safeguards to comply with those provisions which impose something on the public service. Therefore, now, arguing about the influence of Berlusconi on the Public Institute of RTV and how some big money will be shared here, are empty language, which is not the basis in the text of the law, which we have also considered on the committee and I repeat, I repeat, I think I am saying this for the third time in the National Assembly. When we proposed the amendment or when we considered the amendments of the three Members on the deletion of the prizes, we only voted in favour of this amendment, and the other did not vote in favour of it, nor did the SDS vote in favour of this amendment. Therefore, please do not state that this provision has remained in law. This should be said from the point of view of the work of the Committee. I could also tell you who was the one who was so rude that the employees did not receive the prize. But they also share that share in public institutions for a successful business. So not to say that the principle of a reward for a good job is not being done. However, when we are already in business, in commercialisation, when I first talked about how much commercialisation is in the institution now, under the existing law, and I reminded you of the letter from last January, remember that the Public Institute of RTV will also have to say something at the expense of the former leadership, the former Director-General has violated the rules on permitted advertising blocks and also on indirect advertising during the World Cup. So much for commercialization and these things, if we talk about them and see in this law the worst evil. No one claims that it is not possible to generate income from market activities as well, but what this law brings is a separation between both, between what is a public service and what is a market activity, and the appropriate and transparent distribution of the money obtained. As for the various broadcasts on commercial televisions, I would suggest that we discuss these on any other occasion, now we are talking about the RTV Slovenia Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Colleagues! What we have just heard is probably not a debate on behalf of the applicants. If you have already written down the Committee on Culture as a proposal for a point, then I would like to say that there are about 40% of the opposition members and 60% of the coalition members in this committee. This debate, which was approved by the chairman of the Committee, is the full position of the Group of Social Democrats and not the position of the Committee. And I would like to ask that when the Chairman of the Committee speaks on behalf of the Committee, he discusses the content that was on the Committee's consideration of this decision. I note because I was at this meeting that the colleague, the chairman of the committee, Mrs Potrata, did not discuss the content of the debate that was announced on the committee. There's a record of this, there's a magnetogram. And I propose that in the future, all those who, in such an agile manner, act violently as proponents at points that have not been requested also take into account the structure of the debaters, as well as the structure of the working body that addressed this point. But what has now happened is an eclectic breach of the rules of procedure, an abuse of trust, and many more could be listed. And in this way it is probably not possible to address the agenda item that is now ahead of us in this National Assembly. Here, the President of the National Assembly and the others who are planning meetings of the National Assembly should consider these matters further. The Committee does not propose an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum, EPA 1067, but is a motion for a decision on this, EPA 1369. And this point isn't on the agenda today. And Mrs. Potrata speaks to EPA 1067, which is on the agenda, and not to EPA 1369, where she is the proposer. You sent this to us by house DHL, this decree, by fast mail, but read well who requested the point and who prepared an acceptable letter. And Mrs Potrata, who is proposing an accompanying letter, is a representative of the applicants. I think that such things that are happening in this National Assembly are unacceptable, and this is a total abuse of the parliamentary procedure and it serves only to get the coalition together for an additional thirty-five minutes for the debate, and you have taken them away from those who have proposed this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Tanko, you made these comments at the beginning of the meeting and Mr President, Mr Gantar explained the procedure to you. You are well aware that the proposer and the group that requested the referendum are composed of SDS Members, SLS Members and Andre Magajna, and no one objects. However, the call was drawn up at a time when a meeting of the Committee had not yet been convened in order to identify who the drafter of the decision was. As a result, the Committee's meeting was later convened, the decision-maker was the committee, and you did not object, and now I can only comment that, because I myself have been to the committee meeting, mag. Majda Potrat, I don't know the timing, but according to the content of more than half, explained the exact procedure in which decisions were taken by the Committee on Education and Sport. But in the second part, she talked about the content of the law, and in this work I agree with you that it would be better to let this part go. Thank you very much. Mr. Lois Posedel has the word, isn't he? Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President or Vice-President. Of course, you could say a lot about the RTV Act, but it's not supposed to be the topic of today's session. However, I agree with the decree, which means that I will vote in favour at the referendum on 12 December to help implement the RTV Slovenia Act, which we adopted in the National Assembly on 20 October. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. He won't discuss it. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have repeatedly discussed the RTV Act, as well as the material or request for a referendum under point four, and have been able to read the concerns of the applicants in connection with a wide range of content, programmes and services, as well as the quality and diversity of the offer to members of the national communities of the former Yugoslav Republics, which are also mentioned in the law. I don't know why the applicants had to write this, but it's obviously one of the points that they think is controversial in this law. On the contrary, I must say that, as a Member, I am proud that we have written this in this law and that we will also provide such content on public television because that is what its mission is about. It seems to me that the problem of this issue is simply an entirely incomprehensible issue, because we want to or do not want to hear it and understand it, represent 10% of the people of Slovenia, and I think that in the new historical context of our country they are in a position of minority and it is right that Public Television in Slovenia regularly gives them programme attention and allows for the affirmation of their languages and their culture. I think we're showing some latitude, some civilizational progress, and I'm proud of this solution. However, I would like to make a few more arguments that have led to this. Last but not least, we were reminded by a number of NGOs and also by the Council of Europe that we do not have a proper solution to this area. For example, the Council of Europe Committee on the Control of the Implementation of the Convention on the Protection of Minorities warned us on 25 May 2005 that these contents are neglected and that the presence on public television in this regard is also necessary for these groups. They recommend that the Slovenian government make further efforts to support their cultural activities and their accessibility and presence in the media. There were also many warnings. It is also a question of the role of public broadcasting in the promotion of cultural diversity. Many words have recently been about the "multi-cultural" modern word in Europe, and many European public televisions have started to do so in 60 years. In Germany they had such shows, in Belgium, Switzerland, Great Britain, broadcasts for immigrants and minorities. In fact, all public televisions in Europe do this, and I think it is appropriate that we put this emphasis into law and that we do it on Slovenian public television. If public broadcasting does not include diverse national and ethical communities in programmes and in the system of action, regardless of their presence, cultural needs and communication rights, and does not respond to their needs to be included in public broadcasting, and indirectly, the country which regulates this public broadcasting shall implement the exclusion policy, it shall prevent the expression of the cultural potential of excluded communities through the sole national public media and create a basis for social tensions. Again, one of the questions is who wants tension in this society, who wants us not to give room equal, equally to these groups. Media legislation and regulators in European countries have traditionally applied the care for cultural diversity through public broadcasting. Why the integration of these communities, and not least why mention the former Yugoslavia, why this listing? It seems to me that the members of the national communities of the former Yugoslav Republics in Slovenia represent an important part of the Slovenian country by number and by wealth of cultural potential, even because of the historical context. This should not be something to be ashamed of in this esteemed congregation. Finally, it is good that many cultural societies are organised to try to express their linguistic and cultural potentials as well as their interests. Finally, let me also draw your attention to the document from the time of Slovenia's independence. A document bearing the title of the 1990 Declaration of Good Purpose, where we explicitly wrote in this document, that Slovenia will guarantee to all members of other nations and nationalities the right to universal cultural and linguistic development. To all with permanent residence in Slovenia, they can acquire the citizenship of Slovenia if they want to. In short, we have also written this down in our fundamental or one of our fundamental documents of independence. And I am glad that we have been able to achieve so much openness, breadth and multiculturalism that we have also written this in the Public Broadcasting Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u97	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, I need to rediscover that the applicant's rights in this procedure are violated. On 27 October, our request was published in the Rapporteur, a request for a legislative referendum. You, with the exact same title, with the same EPA, called this meeting of the National Assembly. Only today, it is said on 2 November, we have adopted a proposal for an act, it is also in this forecast, and although this proposal for an act has only arrived today, you have appointed the chairman of the committee and not those who have signed the request. I have to say this because I find this extremely irresponsible. And that the matter is even more complicated, the one acting on behalf of the proposer is talking about all other things, especially his political views and comments on the content of the law, not what we have written in our request. The second thing I have to comment on is these discussions on the subscription. According to the previous law, under the applicable law, there is no basis for changing the subscription and the four-year subscription did not change, although the wages increased by at least 25% at that time. If someone finds that the subscription did not go down, I think this is a problem, because not only did wages increase, there was also some inflation and the relative share in household costs decreased significantly. The relative share of the subscription in the household area declined significantly during this period. Until last year, when the Minister proposed that the Law on the Enforcement of Budgets should be unlawfully amended. It changes in an illegal way because the Public Institute of Radiotelevision Slovenia is not a public budget user. And this was also pointed out in the ZIPRO hearing process, but the coalition overturned the matter dead coldly. However, in this debate I would also like to touch on what the Minister has been so vehemently stressing the proportion of civil society in its new bodies proposed by the law. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, on a proposal from the government or last year, on a proposal from the Government, on 25 September, we adopted the National Council for Culture, which was approved in the National Assembly. And this National Council for Culture, which has gone through all the political procedure, both governmental and national, is certainly not a civil society. Here is a political selection made in the selection of those potential staff to participate in this consultative body, you have not chosen. And this National Council for Culture, which has gone into the government's political procedure and the national assembly procedure, is not a representative of civil society. It's not a civil society, it's a politically-appointed institution in this country. The second applicant acting on behalf of civil society is the so-called Association of Social Organisations of Slovenia. First of all, I would like to say here that the Minister did not say exactly how many of these members are in this association. It's not 18 or 20, but it's 15, so that's what I have in front of me. And it would be good, Madam Minister, if you have already proposed this association as an elite of civil society, to at least know who you have proposed and how many these people represent and who they are. I pointed out earlier in the debate that one of the members of this association is the Olympic Committee of the Association of Sports Unions, led by Dr. Janez Kocijancič. I would like to remind you that among these 15 plays are the Diving Union of Slovenia, President Mitja Slavinec. He is also a proposer or member of this association of the Institute of Technical Culture, President of Dr Mitja Slavinec. Civil society. The same acts, for example, as a member of this Association of the Auto Sport Association of Slovenia, AŠ 2005, President Anton Anderlič. For example, a member of this association is the Alliance of Retired Associations, President Kožuh Novakova, former Member of the Social Democrats. For example, in this association, the Tourist Association is probably President Dominik Černjak, also former politician, the president of the party of young people, and a member of this association is, say, the Association of Friends of the Youth of Slovenia, president of mag. Franz Kočevar, former director of the clinical centre and advisor in the office of the President of the Republic. Also civil society. It is so cheap for the Minister to deceive the public that this proponent you wrote, who is proposing the current programming council, is now a new world that these are associations representing civil society, it is probably difficult to say if all these institutions are headed by a profiled policy. Mr Anderlich is still an active politician, a member of the National Assembly, and you wrote that this is a part of civil society. These politicians, who are at the head of these associations, will replace 16 who have been gathered from a set of proponents, viewers and viewers, listeners and listeners. How can those from the National Council for Culture and the Union of Social Organisations of Slovenia be, then, representatives of civil society, if they have gone through all the political procedure or are politicians at the head of these institutions, these organisations, these associations. However, you will not bring us around if you speak only the truth according to your words. There is very little of this truth in what you have suggested and it shows in a way that you are trying to do through so-called civil society an apolitical program, an apolitical world that will lead and manage the institution. This is a disaster that you've prepared and you're selling here as some top-notch project of civil society, apolitical, you've said it many times, away from it, and it's a complete fake of what's supposed to be apolitical. This is the installation of backgrounds that will be managed by the Council of the RTV Institute through the so-called civil society. Mitja Slavinec, Anton Anderlič, Kožuh Novakova, Kocjančič, Hočevar and some others will manage the world and propose to the world of RTV representatives of civil society. This is the technology you are using, and we have already repeatedly warned about this, and I think it is right that, for such reasons, such counterfeits or cases, this law is rejected in one way or another. The referendum is the last chance to stop this law. Here's one of the things the debates said was that we can't split up on the left and on the right. You can't because they're just left-handed. They're just left-handed. Mr Anderlič, Mr Kocjančič, Mr Mitja Slavinec, Kožuh Novakova, these are not left and right, but they are only left and you bring this left policy under the cover of civil society into the world of the Public Radio Television Institute. That's what you did, and the Minister says 60% of the new body is made up of civil society. What kind of 60? Not a hundred percent of it. I wonder if, by any chance, this referendum will fail, will fellow Member Rogers and Kek still have their point on RTV? I'm just curious. So far, they have had a point on RTV, one hidden camera, one in another happens to perform or both together, and this means an eccentric abuse of politics, when through some entertainment broadcast it strengthens its image in the public. I'm curious, you can smile, you can do anything, but it's probably an abuse of the camera for political purposes. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall.]] You better not, because they won't let you say anything else. [[..]] And so on. In short, how can we handle these matters in this way? That's impossible. When some are allowed all things, nor does anyone warn you, if you warn them to mock, but on the other hand they are quite large and they are rude, I also have to find out, abuse and so on. And it is absolutely nothing for you, Madam Minister, but to legislate "agitprop" on the one hand and to wash the subscription on the other. There is absolutely no other intention of this law, regardless of the fact that you have written very complicated procedures for the appointment of persons who are supposed to meet in this institution. You're talking about responsibility. Can anyone give me a list of cases where, under the Company Act, any irresponsible director or supervisor has been convicted? Some of you have a very long internship in the National Assembly. What responsibility? All those who tried to prove themselves were driven out of these procedures. Anderlich's colleague Zidar, for example, and others, and so on. Everyone's gonna get out of this. And you're talking about some responsibility, Madam Minister, it's completely irrelevant, it doesn't have any real basis in any of the acts of this coalition, in none. Yet everyone who has acted irresponsibly has good specimens in their ranks, even in the current government suit among ministers, you have not yet sanctioned anyone, yet no one, but you have sanctioned the one who may have warned of a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word is Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. How scrupulous Mr Tanko defends the current regime, which calls for changes in itself. With regard to the referendum decision, if we discussed it as we discussed it five years ago, we would have ended long ago because there was no broad debate as we are today. So much for the democratic nature of today's debate, today we've talked about everything, about the referendum, about the programmes, and at least luckily about the TV receivers, and the analog and digital signal, because this is also going to be the problem we're going to face sooner or later. Legally defined matters are met and the referendum is a fact, the decree must be adopted and, as I see it, my colleagues and colleagues will have to help proposers to adopt this decision on the basis of the composition of the proposing team in this referendum. As we said in the introduction to the referendum, we will not object because it meets the legal requirements. It is interesting, however, because it is necessary to ask what the aim of the referendum is and probably the proposers aim to ensure that the law does not enter into force or that the electorate and the electorate assess that the law is not good. And as I said, the request meets the conditions, we sign the referendum, and then what happened, not now, the referendum would be called, but on the flower Sunday of next year. And that's the idea of the proposer or those who demand a referendum. Then it all turns out that those of us who challenge it are having a Christian holiday on a flowery Sunday. It didn't grow on our cornea, but the idea grew somewhere else. But of course, the question immediately arises why only next April, why not now on December 12th? Because you have essentially achieved your purpose, the law will not enter into force until then, and the date will suit you also, in April, because you are not entirely sure that people will inherit your propaganda. And what if the referendum is on December 12th and the marriage is confirmed? It will then apply with effect from 1 January and not until the middle of next year. Of course, intention is power to perceive, and as such we have detected it. We also talked about the subscription or whatever we call it. Most in Slovenia have operators that offer us 100 and more programs, and we pay the rates. Why? Because the service they offer us is appropriate and we are willing to pay for it. We pay RTV subscription or whatever we call it because it is only legal, not because we would be happy to observe quality on this public radio. And, of course, the question is whether we are satisfied with the current situation. In the introduction I spoke on behalf of the parliamentary group about the inscription "again" on the TV screen, and let me tell you my experience abroad when they told me that they were monitoring the events in Slovenia with the help of our television. And when I asked who this television was, they called me TV again. And it took me a while to figure out which TV it was. This is our public television, which very often has "again" in the corner of the screen, and it's not television, but it means that they repeat stories repeatedly. That's it. And that also speaks of quality. And if we are satisfied with the quality of this offer, then there is no reason to change the current arrangement. But I think that we are not satisfied and that most are not satisfied with what we can monitor on our public television and that we will also support the changes in the law because they bring about changes in the existing state. And we're going to vote 12. 12. Because, in this case, the law may already be in force 1. 1. 2011 and not the way you want, somewhere in the middle of the year, if it already happens that you will not get the referendum. So, 12. 12. we will decide on changes on TV Slovenia and also on Radio Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Government of Minister Majda Shirca? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u102	Dear Members and Members. The decision to hold this referendum in December, that is to say, we support the proposed date 12 ourselves, because it is of great interest that the law enters into force when it is ever written — 1. 1. In 2011, it is linked to accounting standards and all division that defines a new way of doing business, a new transparent, transparent and good way of doing business. This is important. Otherwise, if this were to happen further and later, it would actually have been your pretension or whatever already defined wish that on Radiotelevision Slovenia would have become nothing different, that it would have remained the way Grims wished years ago, in 2005, as it was then guaranteed, and in whatever way it was later found that it was not good, because there were too many problems, because the law really made a lot of promises. More than that, what was once there has been lost by the practice of these past years. Today, by the way, when we were able to speak for 7 hours, together 7 hours and 5 minutes, unlike in 2005, when we had it, even when I was a member of the opposition and some of you, when we had 30 minutes of time available. At that time, the National Assembly was chaired by President Tsukjat, at which time you spent thirty minutes for the debate, but it was useful. It is also helpful to have seven hours because in seven hours it is evident that some improper hearings or misunderstandings, ignorance, knowledge, excessive knowledge, exaggerated values, and so on, face meaningfully. And further down, I believe they will. For example, many half - truths, twisted facts, were uttered. Let's say that the current law, Mr Grims, will today, who unfortunately could not, should not or would not speak but confirmed that it can change in the law that is now in force, the amount of RTV contribution. But no, Mr. Grimes, you are. It is only for this reason that the RTV management must decide and propose this to the government. The previous irresponsible leadership did not fail in time to achieve this shift in the budget, its own, because it ran out of salary money after Mr Virant's so-called reform system was introduced and brought changes to RTV Slovenia as regards the pay system. I think that wages have changed by 16% in favour of employees, so they've risen. And that's why we ran out of money. We have also resolved this situation with the Budget Implementation Act, so that the flags did not literally bring this money through other items that went to the national communities. I will not, of course, ask questions now within a limited period of time whether Mr Jančar is a politician or Mr Zupanič is a politician or a filmmaker, is Mr Jančar a full writer or a politician or has the right to think and what he says or does not say? Whether Meta Hočevar as a recognised director, screenwriter and playwright has the right to be, or not to be, a politician and not to think anything, because the representatives of the National Council for Culture are, as it were, a beef business association that could, for example, be defined on the RTV Act in 2005. Or even more, the company of cicada and foxy cattle lovers could also be defined at that time. And the societies that are united within the U.S.S. and bring together fifteen thousand members, does anyone deny to them that they should not be allowed to think that they are politicians? Does anyone else in this country have the right to say anything, or does anyone else have the right to say anything? Should we end this national assembly, for example, in April, let us all make decisions about what was said today, the 15 more laws that await us by April? I mean, we want to rationally set the limits of this society, to put it on the real ground, to trust that we do not mix everything it thinks and that it has the right and duty to represent certain interests. And society, civil society has them, and it's an important factor, so we opened the door for her, so we listened to her. That's why, believe me, we've been spinning a number of forms, possible ways, who are the ones who can present civil society. That they will not experience again those so-called convictions for so-called civil society, for which, of course, something is always hidden somewhere. But we can't live like this, if we live like this, we won't come one step further, we'll just see conspiracys, planted mines everywhere, and this society will be, believe me, permanent. In short, we did not want to keep the solutions as they were, for which I have been told many times today, that they need to be changed, that time goes on, that it brings changes also within technology, which is an important factor and that autonomy, autonomy and a quality programme must be ensured.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u103	Thank you very much. He would like to speak with the president of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, Mag. Maja Potrat, would you like a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u104	You have before you the amendment and the motion for a decree. In view of what has been said so far, I think you will easily decide what your will will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the decision. We are moving on to the debate on the two amendments tabled. First, I am putting an amendment to the third section into the debate. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? He doesn't want to. That's why we're moving on to a decision. I warn you that this amendment is accepted by the general majority. Procedural, please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I propose a 15-minute recess before the decision is taken on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u107	Yeah, we'll do it. Anyone want to explain the vote to the amendment to the third section? He doesn't want to. That is why I conclude my explanation of vote and allocate fifteen minutes of rest. We'll continue at 9:45. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u108	Colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament! We continue the adjourned session and the point. Would you like to speak to the leader of the parliamentary group, Mr. Tanko? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Section 3. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 34. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the debate on the amendment tabled to Section 4. Anybody want to talk? I'm guessing he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Section 4. Before we go to the vote on this amendment, I note that the amendment proposes a vote on the referendum within a period of 45 days from the date of the referendum. Therefore, the National Assembly will vote by a two-thirds majority of the Members present on the basis of Article 33(1) of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative on this amendment. If the amendment is adopted, the assembly will also vote with the same majority on the motion for a decree in its entirety. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 61 Members and Members present, with 25 votes against 31. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on both amendments. We are moving on to a full decision on the proposal for a decision. On the basis of the fifth paragraph of Article 140 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not warned me that the proposal for a decision would not be inconsistent. Procedurally, please, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr President, I propose that we postpone the vote on the decision to a later date, until the conclusion of the Small Work Act procedure is known. I believe that we can conclude this procedure quickly, because we can also deal with it vetofully at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, and in this case, after the re-examination of the law in the National Assembly, we could also decide on a different content of the decree. The Legislative and Legal Service also stated in its opinion that the postponement of the decision to implement the Radio Television Act would have no anti-constitutional effect. And in order to save, we propose to wait for the outcome of the Small Work Act procedure and then make any referendum decisions on both laws on the same referendum day. In short, I'd like to make a procedural suggestion that we stop this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Of course, I cannot take this proposal into account. According to the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, the National Assembly must present a referendum with a decree within 7 days of the submission of the request. If we do not do so today, on the last day, this deadline falls and, of course, the referendum would not be signed. In this case, the applicants of the request for a referendum would, of course, be able to enforce the non-application of their constitutional right even in the Constitutional Court. That's why we're moving on to a decision. An explanation of the voice? On behalf of the delegation? In your own name? Does any of the parliamentary groups want to explain their voice? He doesn't want to. In your own name Anton Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u111	Given that it is not possible to vote differently than to confirm this decree, since the legal order is so pronounced, despite the fact that in these seven hours a lot of things have been heard, which does not belong to the introduction of this requirement to voters and voters, the fact is that it is necessary to say that the impact of civil society is finally coming back, and it is fortunate that in the last six years, minus two, has failed to completely destroy civil society organisations as it has succeeded in impoverishing Luka Koper, Inter-Europe, Hit and similar companies, and that there will also be some content in support of civil society and civil society organisations, in particular the content of citizens and citizens, and in vain, on national television programmes, in particular as regards sports and in this work, it will certainly be true that now, instead of repeatedly repeated, there will be a number of content on public and national television, there will be a number of sports content that will be returned. Yes, Minister Beast and some others said in those years that no one who voluntarily supports these social organisations and, in any way, participates in organising certain content of civil society can also be active in politics, but it is fortunate that there are also things that can be shared in what a person does professionally and in what he does in the afternoon, in love and in the interest of everyone. That's why I'm gonna be this [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u112	Thank you very much. More explanation for the vote in his own name. Anybody else want some? I request an application for explanations of vote on my own behalf. Explanation of the voice in his name Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I'll support the ruling. However, I am surprised, of course, that today, in almost seven hours, there was only talk about television, as if it was a dedicated medium and it was wrong, because this decree is also connected to radio and national radio, the first, second and third programmes, at least in my personal opinion, is the only medium that is loyal to this address, to this name that is a public national institution. Radio. Not just TV, you don't see the ladies and gentlemen through this marriage, but now I'm going to be on TV, and now everyone will see me, and now everyone will hear me. That's not what this is about. We're talking about the public institute of RTV, which also worked with it. Radio is the medium that has so far remained loyal to objectivity and the press. For this reason, for their protection, I will absolutely support this decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Franci Kek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. While I feel that the referendum is unnecessary, if it has to be, it should be brought into force as soon as possible. 1. But to my point of view, I have to admit, Jože Tanka, who's in her own explanation, although things aren't funny, they're pretty serious, but... [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u116	Controversy, Mr. Kek, please don't argue.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u117	This is a matter of explanation. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u118	Kek, please don't argue. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u119	Look, this is that hidden camera is one of the arguments why it's against [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u120	There's no time for controversy, Mr. Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u121	I just wanted to say, "Good morning, Jože Tanko, I haven't had a hidden camera in five years.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u122	Thank you very much. So you said something about the programming content of RTV Slovenia, which is encouraging. We're voting. The vote is under way. We're finding out we don't have a quorum. We will repeat the vote, we will repeat the vote. We're voting again. The vote is under way. Yeah, so I'm canceling the session in 10 minutes. We continue the third vote at 22.05. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u123	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, we continue with the adjourned meeting and with a third vote on the motion for a decree in its entirety. We're voting. There are 40 Members and Members present. The assembly is not adjourned. By continuing this sitting and voting, we will continue at 23.30 a.m. I'm adjourning session until 11:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u124	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We'll continue the meeting at 23.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-02-SDZ5-Izredna-32.ana.u125	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We continue with the adjourned session, which is the turn to vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 46 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 1. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 32nd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and thank you for your participation. Thank you. The meeting was closed on 2 November 2010 at 23.37 p.m.
