ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Breda Pecan, Marian Križman, Anton Anderlich, mag. Branko Grims and Joko Godec. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Council of State to the 14th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 22nd meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to Session 5. 11. 2010 We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions to withdraw the item from the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of proposals for an extension of the agenda. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that the agenda should be extended by the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree on amendments and additions to the Decree on the annual plan for the disposal of state immovable property of more than EUR 300,000 per annum for public administrations and judicial bodies for 2011, EPA 1316 –V, and the Proposal for a Decision on the annual plan for the disposal of state immovable property of more than EUR 300,000 per annum for public administration and judicial authorities for 2012, EPA 1317 –V. You received the proposal by letter dated 12. 11. 2010 Would you like a representative of the proposaler for enlargement? Is that the chairman of the committee or the representative? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a word from the government? I can tell visually that he doesn't want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I'm guessing they don't want to. I am closing the debate on the proposal for enlargement and moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. First of all, we are deciding on a proposal to extend the agenda by means of a proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the 2011 Annual Plan for the Real Estate of the State, worth more than EUR 300,000 per individual, for the authorities of the state administration and for the judicial authorities, EPA 1316-V. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 50 votes against 19. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider the motion for a decree as the 20th item of the agenda on Thursday, 18. 11. 2010 We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by proposing a decree on the country's annual real estate management plan of over EUR 300,000 per individual value for government authorities and justice authorities for 2012, EPA 1317-V. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 21. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider the motion for a decree as the 20.b item of the agenda on Thursday, 18. 11. 2010 The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes to the National Assembly that the agenda be extended by considering the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Income Act, the urgency procedure, EPA 1397-V. You received the proposal by letter dated 12. 11. 2010 Does the representative of the proposer of the extension want to speak, is that the president of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy? [[He doesn't want to.]] The government won't. Does the representative of the drafters of the draft law, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, want to speak? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I'm closing up. We're moving on to a decision. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by means of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Act, an urgent procedure. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 3. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider the draft law as item 2a of the agenda on Thursday, 18. 11. 2010 We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as you have received by reference, and with the additions or enlargements adopted. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 67 votes against 3. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the agenda of the 22nd meeting of the Assembly has been set. I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. on the 1st item of the agenda, which is with questions from Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u2	Dear colleagues, Members and Members, we continue to hold a suspended meeting. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY – THIS IS ON THE QUESTIONS OF THE POSITIONS AND THE MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written submissions from 35 questions sent. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asks a question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who asks a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, the following ministers apologized for today: Dr. Henrik Gjerkš, Minister without a Resource, responsible for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, Dr. Ljubica Jelusič, Minister of Defence, Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration, Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Dorian Marušič, Minister of Health, Majda Širca Ravnikar, Minister of Culture from 16.30 to 17.15, and Boštjan Žekš, Minister without a department responsible for the area of relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the indigenous Slovenian National Community in neighbouring countries and between the Republic of Slovenia and Slovenians around the world. You have received a review of the questions sent to you, which were not answered within the deadline of business. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As we say, the first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. He will be asked a question by Dr Vinko Gorenak, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President! I believe that some half-lived history is probably not what you'd be dealing with today, given that you run a government in the times we live in. However, something has to be said that the government, on a proposal from the Minister of Justice, is bringing half-time history into our daily lives and integrating it into the foundations of the rule of law for the next six years. This has led me to ask you the next question, because it concerns our future. It is known that the soldiers of the former Yugoslav army, as you know, were protecting the green border and the police were protecting the so-called border crossings. Many witnesses who have come forward in recent days are very clear about the brutal killings at the border that took place until 1990, and people who were not political opponents, immigrants or anything, but people who had their own country – Yugoslavia, Slovenia did not provide a piece of bread for survival. Let's take a look at some cases. In the village of Broda, Austria's Koroška, just after the Ljubljana border crossing you will find this monument. The monument says that this is a monument to two 18-month-olds and 7-year-olds who were killed in their mother's arms. The Yugoslav army has started a lot at the border. Political emigrants who were going west were briefly killed. This took until 1990, until the independence of Slovenia. This was also discussed by former police officer Mario Kocjančič, who witnessed some of these murders, and the army did not let him in. That's what Major General Marjan Kranjc was talking about. He said, "If we didn't know what to do with the body, we buried the body outside the cemetery. Soldiers who shot people were never guilty of any execution. If military deserters were killed, we didn't inform the police and civilian authorities. If a civilian was killed, the on-call investigative judge participated in addition to the military body – this is particularly important, as I will say – "all further decisions were taken by the on-call investigative judge." Mr President, if you would like to answer the following question: Under what regulations were Yugoslav soldiers once allowed to kill civilians at the border? Please separate between the public rules and the so-called secret rules. What role did civil authorities play, in particular investigative judges? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u4	Please, Mr. President, the government of Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u5	Your Honour, you probably know that I do not have to answer your question, in fact, because it does not relate to the design and implementation of the existing government policy. But I want to answer your question. On two. One that concerns half-time history and one that concerns today's procedural decisions regarding the candidate for President of the Supreme Court. I saw this weekend a documentary about the Nuremberg Process in 1948. It is not a trial from 1946, where they were tried in Nazi February, but four judges. The defence said, "How does the prosecution hope to process four judges who were only enforcing the laws that were in force in the Third Reich?" And the D.A. had a good answer, and he said, "Yes, they had this duty if they wanted to accept it. But we could refuse this duty." If we were to assess that such legislation, which is illegal, is inhuman, inhuman, antihuman, no one then forced the judges to remain in that position. These four judges were willing to remain in this position and to enforce the laws that led to the death of millions of people. That's how I answered your question about killing people at the border. I've never approved of it, and I never will. You also know that, apart from the summit of the Slovenian Army, there is nowhere at the border, and it would probably be worth opening this question once, whether it is time for the Trinity Summit to be occupied by Slovenian police and not by the military. And it also defends our sovereignty until the arbitral tribunal definitively delimits the borders on land and sets limits on the sea. As far as the Masles case is concerned. On Monday last week, the Minister of Justice asked me if he had my support for Mr Masles' candidacy. I had no reason for not giving such support to the Minister in his candidacy. After a long time, we had a candidate who had as much support from the judiciary as, I think, it's called a general assembly. This is important because the Supreme Court has been without a President for almost a quarter of a year. The current acting president, the interim president, is doing a great job, but he can't do that ad calendas graecas. Look, the minister supported the candidate in good faith that he was telling the truth, and so was I, the minister. I can't imagine the situation if it turns out that the President of such an important body as the President of the Supreme Court would not be telling the truth. That's why I trust him because I can't imagine him trying to force himself into a situation that would put him in an impossible position. I also support the decision of Minister Zalar, and I hope that the National Assembly will shake this decision well and take it after the hearing. I'll be surprised if you don't have another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Dr. Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u7	Absolutely! You said we're shaping current policies, not history. Look, here's what needs to be said. When you were talking about German processes, of course, you were talking about some laws that were in force in Paradise. Our situation was worse and different. It's just the following things. Mr President, I would like you to be guided by your heart and your mind, and not by the opinion of Minister Zalar, when answering the question. What's this all about? Yugoslavia had public legislation under which all the authorities acted. One month in prison is an illegal crossing of the border or a criminal offence, in the event of a terrorist attack on Yugoslavia, incursion into Yugoslavia. No legal law, no one, allowed shots to be fired at the border. Let's move on. Look, permission to kill at the border was recorded in the rules of the "border units" service. But it was a secret act, and that's the difference between some German state, even though we're talking about a third paradise. I'm asking you: For God's sake, Mr. President, what did he do, I'm not talking about Mr. Maslesha, any Slovenian investigative judge on the spot, but if he was on the spot, what did the candidate admit and say when he said he saw a dead man - that's what the candidate said - and what did he do? Every Slovenian citizen of the former Yugoslavia or Slovenia is obliged to report a murder to the police if he sees a dead man. What did Slovenian investigative judges do when they saw dead people? At the very least, they were obliged to report a murder to the police. And a concrete candidate saw a dead man. And the Supreme Court says, everything's fine, it's satisfactory. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President, the government of Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u9	Look, for things in the past, so far gone, I really can't answer. I do not approve of them, that is all I can say, and I will do everything in my power in this position or if the public service will ever allow me any other important position to decide that this will never happen again. What happened at the time was to be determined by the competent authorities. What is important right now is my objective responsibility to support Minister Zalar in Mr Masleš's candidacy. And I support this objective responsibility with all my heart and with all my understanding. I say, I cannot imagine that Mr Maslesha would force this position, knowing that in the future it could prove different from what he says. Therefore it seems to me that the simple mind speaks for his views and therefore enjoys the confidence of our Minister for Justice and mine. Because otherwise, whether I'm afraid of your criticism, I'm going to say, I'm going to turn my back on the minister I trust, or I'm going to believe other arguments without being able to weigh third. That's not my job. It's the task of those who will deal with it. So at the best of my ability to answer anything you want, I can't add anything else. I don't want old times to happen again. I don't think so. I would like these times now not to be burdened by such tragic cases. I hope, especially now, as the 20th anniversary of plebiscite approaches, that we will know Slovenians on this 20th anniversary see in these two decades a strong advance from the moment it seemed to break history until the moment it was shown that we had broken it in our favor. With all the mistakes and perhaps lost opportunities and setbacks that have been made in these two decades, we have been a country that, before this high assembly at its inauguration, did not want any diplomats to participate, except for one general consul, in the country that recently presided over the European Union. But this is a remarkable success of one country. And I hope that at the 20th anniversary of plebiscite we will also know how to rejoice and that we will not share in those who are more honest and less sincerely looking forward to becoming independent and that there is no homesickness for the times behind us, because these are not the times that could lead us to the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u11	Absolutely. Of course, I propose that, in the context of this response, we discuss at a meeting of the National Assembly and hold a broader debate, which should not only be a debate on the response of the President of the Government, but should be a broader debate on this subject for the main reason of tomorrow and not yesterday. It's about the future. Not just ours. The ones that are coming. That, however, some values will prevail in this country. That's the question. In 1992, the majority of the Slovenian courts were promoted for a permanent term in accordance with the Constitution. Tell me, we all remember exactly what happened at the time: mass distribution of mandates. No one was checking anything. The Slovenian judiciary certainly needs major constitutional reforms and not just a small cosmetic intervention. If the Council of Justice is satisfied today and says that the candidate has given an appropriate explanation and we believe him, the candidate himself at the Supreme Court meeting. That he was on the spot and saw a dead person, and this is verified by the Supreme Court, excuse me, then there's something rotten there, and dividing power up or down. There's something rotten then. In addition to calling the Constitutional Judges, to contact the Supreme Judges to contact the other Judges. By the way, on Monday, I asked the judiciary, judges, to come forward and speak in this country. So far, I've got one file of documents. I couldn't read them. I thank them. But in this country, order must be made in this area. And the first step can be such a debate. And we're just going over everything. All witnesses, from the Constitutional Judge, the Supreme Judge, the police, the generals, the former army, have responded and said so. No, the minister insists that at the scene of the murder as an investigative judge and not to try a murder case is something that's totally fine. But not in 1989, in 2010 that's fine. It's something crazy. It's something completely abnormal. And I'd expect that Dan, the two who are coming, I can't talk to the Prime Minister anymore, I know I'm aware, but I would expect you to stop your people. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u12	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Vinko Gorenak to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide on Friday, 19 November 2010, in the framework of the vote. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be raised by Franz Puksic, the Slovenian People's Party's Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government! In the last days, you have been complaining that there is no money for students, pensioners, unemployed people, no economic incentives, no harmonisation of the salaries of public servants and so on. You warn that public finances are at stake, but the government coalition did not adopt a savings amendment on Friday for about EUR 200 million in the budget proposed by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Worse. She has not even accepted our proposals on how to draw on European money, which we have been warning you about for two years. In Europe, there are hundreds of millions of euros left to go to Slovenia, while your government is squeezing the most socially weak, causing huge numbers of unemployed and not creating new jobs. Since the beginning of the mandate, your government has been trying to prove how unsuccessful the previous government has been with Minister Ivan Žagar in drawing on European funds. At first, you wanted to change the pumping process, because it was supposed to be the cause of catastrophic pumping, and you realized that this was not the case at home. Remember the political pamphlet of State Secretary Andreje Jerin. This year you changed the operational programmes, despite the otherwise adopted decisions here in the National Assembly. To this day, we do not officially know how the European Commission has responded to the changes. Unofficially, about 80% of them were rejected. So two years of your rule is over. The results in the area of European funds can no longer be blamed by the previous governments, so let us look at the facts, Mr President. Given the structure of the operational programmes, it would be possible to absorb €2.2 billion by the end of 2010. And at best we'll be from 1.2 billion to 1.4 billion. In 2009, you reduced the EU inflow, i.e. in the budget, from 800 to about 480 million. In 2010, data show that below 50% of the potential drawdowns for this year or around €500 million, even though you have about 1 billion and some more in the 2010 budget rebalancing. During the worst period of crisis, your government is thus unable to obtain the planned funds from the EU. What does that mean? That we will have an even higher budget deficit at the end of the year. Dear Prime Minister of the Government: What are you going to do to get all the funds from the EU if you're not ready to tighten the belt?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u15	As you know, we have quite a few problems with tightening the belt. But we're not the only country that has a problem with that. And we need to do this wisely and with the necessary patience, because if people want to tighten the belt, they need to know that those who can do it more will do so before them. Is that right? Now, on the question you have raised with regard to European funds. I'd like to give you an answer, just like it was written to me, because I think it's right. The Government confirmed the proposal to amend operational programmes, the first to strengthen regional development potentials, and the second to develop environmental and transport infrastructure at its third meeting in June 2010. With the approval of the Government at its meeting, an agreement was adopted on the initiation of the implementation of the said instruments prior to the formal approval of the operational programmes by the European Commission. This is about changes in areas where it was crucial to start implementation immediately. This is the area of competitiveness of companies, inter-enterprise education centres and the area of roads. By this decision, the Government has also ensured this. The answer to your question is clear. The moment of approval of the operational programmes by the European Commission does not in itself have any impact on the possibility of using resources, but changes in operational programmes themselves will have positive effects due to the content of the changes adopted, which go from walls to innovation, to jobs and sustainability. For example, the honourable Member, in order to improve the competitiveness of businesses and research excellence, the available resources increase by 85%, from the current 276 to the new 507 million euro. These funds are primarily devoted to the development centres of the Slovenian economy and to the so-called competent centres. Both calls are already under way. The proposal for amendments to the operational programmes was forwarded to the European Commission following confirmation by the Government, which responded to it in July 2010. The European Commission welcomed Slovenia's orientation towards innovation, jobs and sustainability, as it is also a common strategic orientation at European Union level. However, the European Commission has requested some clarifications so that I can gladly point out that Thursday's complementary operational programmes will be confirmed by the Government and forwarded to the European Commission, where we do not rightly expect complications. The decision by the European Commission is to be expected, as far as I know the practice, after the new year. However, this, as it is said, has no impact on the implementation of cohesion policy instruments in Slovenia. In so doing, the honourable Member, may I say that the Government, at its last meeting on 11 November, under point Miscellaneous, has also adopted a decision in which it entrusted the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy to report to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the success of drawing on European funds on a weekly basis. And in the end, let me tell you something else, because I have a minute left. Very rarely in this Chamber, Mr Puksic, honourable Member, you have heard me talk about the bad decisions of the previous government. There's no excuse for that government's misbehavior. Thus you have not heard me speak many times about the fact that we were not the most successful in drawing on European funds, and you rarely hear from me that the fact that we are now drawing on them more successfully is a terrible victory. In fact, it is the only really fresh money that rests in the European cash register and we can use it if we have equivalent funds and programmes on our side. And this is the money that we can implement if we have programmes that are licensed under a very complex administrative procedure that we Slovenians have adopted before our mandates. However, I will tell you from my experience because I was in charge of this in the European Parliament, and the amendment of the licensed programme would now distance Slovenia from the possibility of implementing this money into practice. And at this point, such a decision would not be operational. We are trying to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens for the decision, we are trying with municipalities, with other entities, as far as possible, to help with the design of the project and to report it to the European Commission immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u17	Mr President, if I had both the same papers, but I have those that we have received from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The previous term of office is within one year, you know that the operational programmes were approved in June and November 2007. 2008 was a change of government. And at that time, about €1.5 billion of such projects were signed and approved. In regional development, as you well know, for a total of 300 million. Two years have passed since then, and if your government had been at least one and a half billion a year, today would have been at four and a half, which means more than is available, we are talking about all three operational programmes. You, the President, often, but probably give you such information, talk about the whole structure, including agricultural policy, when it comes to about €900 million, which they have nothing to do with these operational programmes. Look, Mr President, if I look at the Directorate for Budget of your Ministry of Finance, this is not the opposition Directorate of the Slovenian People's Party, it says that 307 million euros have been reimbursed together with agriculture and fisheries, as structural and cohesion funds. Or, in other words, according to the budget where you write down a billion and something or after a rebalancing, because you have reduced the inflow by 100 million at the time of the rebalancing, on the other hand, you have the expenditure that went to the Brussels cash register. We have over 625 million in the budget, and 50% of them have already gone – I am talking about the same date, January, August, this is data – about 300 million euros. Mr President, it's not true. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] that the European Commission has not responded negatively. Let's say an example of rail infrastructure when you wrote that you need to re-evaluate the value of priority projects and the European Commission [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u18	Thank you very much. I'm afraid the time has run out. Prime Minister Borut Pahor, would you like to respond? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u19	Maybe not to repeat things. Two basic things. First of all, Slovenia became a net recipient. We've turned this reference to ourselves. Am I satisfied and how much? No, I never will until we get all the money we can. But I know, like I said before, two. That we must have our own financial resources and that we must have operational programmes that we must implement and implement in accordance with a licensed procedure. Okay. Another time. Dear Member, the Slovenian government is working to make a very successful withdrawal. This was also the reason that, while I am a very successful associate, the Secretary of State, Dr Genoria, who is, I must be very frank with you, and you know this, in fact, almost all the mayors who, in this Chamber, have essentially arranged for the interests of this country before and after entry, for all governments: Drnovskovo, Ropovo, Janševa and for the government that I run, and we sent him to Brussels as Ambassador. Why? Because a new financial perspective is beginning to be drawn up and we will need someone who is a good know-how on how to draw funds from the European Union. We're on a weekly basis, things are getting better. The problem that we have is neither a European problem nor a problem with the idea of projects that mayors or other actors have. The problem is still in a very complex licensed mechanism, which makes it largely impossible for Slovenia to be more flexible. But not to go into the process of change, and I know it, because I was the rapporteur for taking up our time and at that time the process of giving resources is blocked, we have decided that, as far as possible, we will remove these blockades and Slovenia, as far as possible, this money also draws. On the other hand, as we have said, we have sent to Brussels, although my very good and useful fellow worker was here, the person who knows the most about drawing on European funds, who will and already participate in the preparation of the financial perspective, provides money, not only for agriculture, we are very successful there, but also for other areas. I hope that we can do this even more than we have done so far, but this is not entirely up to the government. That's the point.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Please, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I have a procedural proposal and I propose, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a discussion on the response of the President of the Government. From the first and second parts of the answer, it is somehow clear to me that both Members and probably the President of the Government would like to speak to ministers here in front of Members and Members of the National Assembly. I think, President, you've been pretty embarrassed, given what I was saying, exactly, and I've been talking to numbers and arguments. Look, Mr President of the Government, it is urgent and necessary that we really talk about this here. It is not about the previous government, it is not about your government, it is not about you, but it is simply about whether the Republic of Slovenia will be able to absorb €4.2 million from the European budget. Today, from the data you provide, no one can believe anything anymore, because two years have passed. President, in 2014, you will not be able to make any more calls if formula N+2 is available, but then the projects will have to be completed. And today, in 2010, when half the time is available to draw on this perspective of the OPs, these three are already behind us, but you have only 2.8 billion signed up and certified in this year only 330 million euros, and that is indeed catastrophic. See, Members of the National Assembly, on the Committee on Local Self-Government, we unanimously adopted decisions, if you are already modifying the operational programmes, amend them to be feasible and feasible. We have proposed EUR 400 million for regional development, and there is nothing left. So zero, zero, zero. And this is not good, President of the Government, so because of the Slovenian economy, because of the Slovenian people you have received in management, this debate must be done here and these changes made. The President, it was said, was made clear from the European Commission that the changes to the OPs would take 12 to 18 months. They are now taking time, but you have no substance, so we need to listen and adopt the conclusions that we have already adopted in the National Assembly. I therefore propose that we have a debate here.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u22	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Puksic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide on Friday, 19 November 2010, in the framework of the vote. The President's question will be asked by the Victory of the Elinčič Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Four pages ahead of him is a long letter sent by criminalists in the criminal police sector of the Police Department in Cyprus. In June and July of this year, these people submitted four reports to the Head of the Dragica Kotnik Group with concrete evidence of a reasonable suspicion of criminal service. Let's see what it says in the paper. The Italian security authorities, through a secret police officer, carried out a covert operation on our side and therefore promised this secret collaborator a prize of 20 000 euros. The money was then handed over to another man, the Coper Police Department, to Mr. Volmut. However, only EUR 10,000 has been handed over to this secret collaborator. The rest of the money was distributed to the gentlemen. And as criminals in the criminal police sector Koper Police Department say, these were: Mr Volmut - the then head of the drug group, Jurič Dejan and Mr Ribash, who had previously written Krammetter, who had worked together on drugs. Then, in the application, there is also a criminal offence in the field of weapons possession and so on, Article 310 of the Penal Code. Here's a whole bunch of people who have an automatic gun of kalashnikovs, a scorpion gun with a silencer, an M76 sniper rifle with a silencer, then one gun 8 mm, and a whole range of guns he's got working on house searches. Interestingly, Mr Dejan Jurič has several pieces of firearms, an exit of a gun with a silencer that was seized by Grujica Stojanovic in the area of Portorož. Then Mr Jurič should also have an automatic rifle, a copy of the rope, Croatian production, which also has a silencer of sound. Mrs Kotnikov has not initiated any appropriate forecasting procedure in order to carry out investigations and conduct these matters at home in a coordinated action at the same time. It is interesting how these gentlemen, whom I have spoken about, were most pleased to organize, of course, according to my command to the Minister of Home Affairs, investigations in the parliamentary group, in the premises of my office in Parliament, where the officers entered armed to the teeth, then to my home, with the desire to be a night investigation and so on. At least that's for the answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u25	I don't want to hide it, I'm embarrassed at what I can say, what I can't say, given the powers I have, so I can't interfere with the powers of those services I shouldn't. Dear Member, if and to the extent that they hold your allegations that one of these authorities should act biasedly, then someone who supervises, each has his own supervisor, must find out. Surely the government does not provide any guidance on the bias of the conduct of these independent authorities. In addition, the Minister of Justice has just informed me that we have asked the State's Information Prosecutor's Office on the subject of your question, and I believe we will also obtain it. I am also writing here that, according to the Ministry of the Interior, the criminal police are doing their work professionally, in accordance with the law that at that time it was subject to the supervision of various state institutions, as I have previously said, which in specific cases did not identify and confirm any illegality in the work of criminals. I think you referred to the Copper Police Department, if I'm not mistaken. I think it's worth mentioning. The allegations transmitted anonymously to the Supreme State Prosecutor’s Office of the Republic of Slovenia, certain other state authorities or the media, which gave rise to suspicions of the existence of offences committed by officials, were transmitted to the specialized section of the Supreme State Prosecutor’s Office, which also examines them. And I have this information. The Ministry of Justice, in the part of these allegations relating to the alleged non-treatment of applications by the specialised department of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, has requested a briefing on the findings. You have probably noticed that last week we met with the Minister with the state prosecutor's summit and tried to agree on a successful cooperation. Our common goal is to pursue crime, in particular organised crime and in particular economic crime. I hope that the new prosecution law, the law amending the law on criminal proceedings, and other status changes will allow everyone to be competent better and successful, but especially because this was your comment, impartially, whether it was you or me, whether it was one of the ministers, or whether it was an x y person, doing their job. We're all the same before the law. I expect all state authorities to take appropriate action in accordance with their powers, examine matters and either confirm and propose a complaint or appropriate sanctions or reject these allegations or anonymities or anything else. That's all I can tell you right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u26	Do you want to complete the answer? Please, victory, noble deer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u27	Mr President, the entry of police officers with weapons into the National Assembly is something unknown all over the world. And depending on what kind of weapon these cops have at home, and they're not collectors to have this weapon registered, you can only think about why someone has a sniper rifle with a silencer. Probably not shooting sparrows around. But the interesting thing is, this is not over. It's also a huge amount of seized heroin. First 200 kilograms and then two weeks later another 160 kilograms in Kemaludin's action, where they got one policeman who carried around nine kilograms of this heroin, but interestingly enough that the people who were involved here with it were wonderfully recovered that some, as it says here, Mr Dejan Jurič also built a house worth, as he was supposed to say, 2 million euros. Then also in the case of Lucky Friends, these criminals pointed out the corrupt activity of Jurič, Ribaš, former prosecutor Sevšek, prosecutor Slavko Ozbolt and so on. In short, the matter is very elaborate. Even in the possession of Istrabenz, it is very interesting, as it says, that Jurič knew everything, but he did not initiate proceedings against the crimes that they are. In addition, there are three secret operations that are being conducted in a very strange way. This is Sagittarius, Snake, and another operation. The same people are involved and again at the crime line. When I reported this Yurich, they dropped him off at the D.A.'s office, even though I had evidence of a lot of things. Mr President, are we really becoming a mafia state?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u29	No, no, no. As long as this government stays, no. But I must admit that, Mr Member, I cannot compete with you in informing about these cases. I don't have anything like admitting this defeat.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Please, victory, noble deer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Interestingly, most of these people, or virtually all, are involved in police structures that were directed at me because of some kind of, I don't know, bribery between me and former Minister Dr. Pogačnik, which is funny if anything else. This is a matter of a variety of crimes: illegal taking of funds from secret funds, illegal taking of seized drugs, illegal possession and possession of weapons, chokers and explosives, participation in prostitution, illegal secret operations in all emerging forms, money laundering, assistance and concealment in the possession and damage of Istrabenz and so on. Interestingly, not only did I get this document but also received by Finance Minister Križanič, Justice Minister Zalar and also by the Anti-Corruption Commission – Mr Klemenčič. What happened? Nothing's done. And that's what's bad. Therefore, the Slovenian state is in fact already a mafia state. Those who warn of such perverse matters will be punished. And those will be investigated, with the wishes of some ministers or ministers and judges and prosecutors, to carry out night tests in two girls, three and a half years of age and one six and a half years of age with special forces, dressed in black clothes with fast-shooters and reflectors, when these young children are pushed against the wall. Fortunately, the police were so fair and professional that they didn't go for it. Good luck. These were wishes, Mr. President, your surroundings, your governments in one way or another. And I think it's unprovable that something like this is happening. I've already triggered certain things on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u32	Mr. Jelinčič, please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u33	the international level. [[...]] But I think it's also necessary in the National Assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u34	remain within the scope of the question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u35	open this issue and discuss this issue. [[...]] I therefore propose to vote on the proposal to discuss this in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u36	Thank you very much. On the proposal by the President of the Government to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide on Friday, 19 November 2010, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be raised by Bojan Kontic of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! For the government you run, it's half the term. This is certainly an opportunity to assess what has been achieved during this period and to consider what is still to be done in the remainder of the mandate, in the second half. The time that this government you run is not good for anyone who would manage the country at that time. Estimates of achievement are different, and I would like to ask for your assessment on this site.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Prime Minister Borut Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u39	Since it is not only a party colleague, but also a friend, I would like to say that given some different views on the current issues, this is almost a opposition issue. Now for the answer to your question, Comrade Kontic. First of all, I think the critics will see to it that my answer is balanced. I will try to explain only some of the achievements that I think we can be proud of. And every time I speak of achievement, I admit that it is probably always in the nature of this work, that something is also overlooked, that it is not done at the right moment, and that it is possible to do something differently. But first of all, to remember that if today were to set the direction of the government's operation again, I wouldn't have put it any different than the one we're headed for. And today they prove the results that we are witnessing to them. Comparable to the countries where Slovenia wants to be, we have every opportunity if we take some unpopular but inevitable measures during the political autumn, Slovenia comes on the so-called German-French wagon and with rapid dynamics starts from the crisis, not with rapid, but with a stable recovery that will first be known on the financial afterwards on the economic, social and finally in the atmosphere among our people. Let's go in one order. I do not regret that we increased social transfers by 44% in 2009 and 2010. As a result, we have essentially mitigated the terrible drop in standards that would have happened if we hadn't done so. And our people, the great, dramatic fall in GDP, which went virtually to the beginning of 2008 from 7.5 at the end of 2009 to -9, did not feel it. We took care of it, and I'm not sorry. Today, however, I would like to take this opportunity to ask citizens and citizens to understand that it is not possible for them to have sustainable growth if we spend more than we deserve. And in order to earn more and thus to spend more and improve the standard, because this is the goal of this government, we must now strengthen competitiveness in 2011, 2012. This is why some unpopular measures are coming, are already and will come to the National Assembly. Here is pension reform, agrarian reform, here will be health reform, reform of public institutions, labour market reform and institutional adjustments. Big things! After us, measures that have prevented, as in some other countries, a very, very large number of people in Slovenia, from losing their jobs significantly more than this European average. We have a survey of unemployment, which is going to be around 7%, and it was said that at this time there would be 140 thousand unemployed, at this point there would be 101,000. And it's mostly a seasonal moment. For Christmas, there will be as many as I set with my colleagues last year for the goal, about 7% of the surveyed unemployment, maybe under 100,000 unemployed. Another time. The Minister of Labour could say more precisely, during the crisis we were able to improve performance on the level of the poverty threshold in Slovenia. But, of course, all of this requires a tax. The tax is now called competition to improve competitiveness. Whether we have made all the right moves here or in time, this is a question that history will still be judging. But in fact, we only owe ourselves as much as this country can bear. I think that the Minister of Finance will be able to confirm this, our public debt is, I think, 40% of GDP, so far below the European average, Slovenia is far from any countries on the brink of bankruptcy or anything like that. We have a stable situation and if we take some action, we can essentially promise to cooperate on the locomotive of European development, not on the last wagon. At that time, we have improved investment in research and development, such as what other countries have not done. And we are. It was a brave decision. Will it be known during the time of this government and be able to be used by the Minister of Science and Technology and this government? No, no, no. But we'll know each other in time, but that's why we work here. What I'm trying to tell you is that we're next to, in my opinion, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u40	Thank you very much. There'll be plenty of opportunities. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The President is the subject of foreign policy, and I would also like him to give an assessment of the work of this government in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u43	Comrade Kontic, thank you for this opportunity. Look, I think it is a great success that we have arranged relations with Croatia. I know there are different views on whether this is a remarkable success or not. Here I hear a comment on the airspace. It's a Croatian initiative. By the way, what you missed was that Croatia is a member of NATO. And the answer to the fact that air traffic control remains in NATO is not the correct answer to the dilemma whether Italy or Croatia will do so. I am pleased with Italy and have explained this to the Croatian side. But our friends and neighbors can allow Italy to have its own initiative in this regard. Another great success, I think, is that we have friends in the whole Western Balkans. This raises the specific weight of our country when we talk about our real place in Western Europe. In Paris next month, I will sign a strategic partnership with the President of the French Republic, Sarkozy, in the first half of 2010, and we are now working on the Foreign Ministry and others, preparing an agreement or declaration of special friendship and cooperation with Germany. It is a scientific, technological, economic, social and other cooperation with a country that we think Slovenia has a lot in common with it, and we would like to commit to it in the coming out of the crisis and in the coming decades as a sovereign state. I think there are some successes here too, of course there are problems here, but, as it is said, no government has done perfectly, nor has this, even in foreign policy, any other thing could be changed. By the way, we were admitted to the OECD, and this is not only the credit of this government, all of which have done everything necessary before. But don't mention it too often. And there's something else I'd like to mention that the Minister for the Economy won't look at me badly. We have, we have, at the end of the day, the first agency in Eastern Europe in the European Union. It's an energy regulator's agency. I think it's one big success. But did we know how to celebrate it? No, no, no. Look, we Slovenians are made to take success on our own and to look at what we fail. And I think it's actually pretty good for this national character of one small nation that has to fight hard, and that's how it's going to stay in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u44	Thank you very much. There will be no procedural question. We therefore turn to questions from Members of Parliament and Members. Alexander Zorn will ask the environment minister Dr. Roku Žarnić. Please, Mr. Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u45	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, in the midst of Lithuania stands the abandoned mine of Sitarjevec lead. The mine's gone. But it's open, accessible, toxic and dangerous. We have been warning for some time that there will be a major ecological disaster. From Hungary onward, when about 700 thousand cubic metres of toxic red mud waste was spilled from the aluminium factory in Aiki on October 4, 2010, which we all saw in many paintings. However, I remind you that this Hungary can also happen here, because the abandoned Sitarjevac mine above Lithuania represents a potential danger and a real risk level as well as the extent of the accident. And you say, we have seen this publicly that the scope has not been established. Maybe. The mining project of the Ministry of Environment and Space was also developed by the Institute of Mining for the Sitarjevec Mine in 2004 in the Faculty of Natural Technology. And they both show that there is a possibility of a relapse that endangers the health and life of humans and animals, not to talk about material harm. There have been two outbreaks in history. And, Mr. Secretary, if you pay so much attention, I'll show you those pictures. These aren't pictures from Hungary. These are pictures from Sitarovec. The lead mine is as toxic as the aluminium. There's some accumulation lakes up to the edge full. What are you going to do to stop this?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u47	Dear Mr President, honourable Member! Thank you very much for that question. This story also worries me, and you will see in the answer that your question and my answer together are a call for something to be done in this area. Let me do it in a row. The study mentioned was carried out by the Geology Department of the Faculty of Science and Technology in 2004. He found that the abandoned mine directly over Lithuania poses a potential risk of an ecological accident due to possible spillage of mining water. Unfortunately, this study did not contain any actual levels of risk and extent of possible accidents not identified in the study. That's the thing about when you quoted her. However, despite the fact that the Government is a Government on 12 July 2007, I have attached a minutes, and in this regard, it has adopted several conclusions on the basis of which our Ministry was charged with developing a mining project for the permanent rehabilitation of the mine area in which it is estimated that EUR 2.8 million should be submitted for recovery after those calculations. The project was included in the development programme plan and is expected to be phased out by the end of 2012. In the first phase, intervention work is expected to be carried out at EUR 200 000. The expert commission for the implementation and revision of public procurement related to the rehabilitation of the abandoned Sitarjevac mine was appointed. However, the appropriations foreseen by the 2009 budget rebalancing were abolished. We have prepared a rescue project and we can approach the call for works as soon as the funds are made available. The ILO has carried out its task. Given that this is a closed mining facility, there are obligations to finance outside our ministry – this is an area of the economy. And we're going to be able to help out professionally, as we already have. I have to say, because I'm aware of this problem, I'm 30. 11. an agreed visit to this mine, so I can also take a physical look. And there's just one little thing I'd like to tell you. The Mining Act was recently passed. In coordination, I was very alert to the problems of closure. I'm not happy with how this is arranged in this law. Cited Minutes 7, I quote, "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has instructed the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of the Economy to prepare appropriate amendments and additions to the regulations which will constitute a system-wide solution for the monitoring of closed and abandoned mining facilities and the State's suicidal measures in case of need for their rehabilitation. Let me take this opportunity when this new law opens, let it be clearly recorded inside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Alexander Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, of course, it costs something. How much will it cost if this happens if 6,000 cubic meters of water hits a day, and these are very toxic waters, lead water, toxic water in the middle of Lithuania? I have to tell you that it wasn't just 1895 and 1932, when this happened, but there was another very small outbreak, which indicates the danger, which occurred in September this year, and part of Lithuania has only colored this outbreak, as I showed you. And then I'll be happy to bring you these pictures. I don't want to complicate what study was done, which is still missing, which the ministry is more competent. When that happens, it'll be too late to give bureaucratic answers. And one more thing. I will not require a public debate, a plenary debate in the National Assembly. I warn you, however, that you are now aware of this and are responsible for it. And that's where I'm gonna take the team that's gonna take a look at this, take a picture of this. Mine, you said it was closed. He's not locked up. Anyone can get into it, I can do it myself. The mine has huge open trenches and toxic water flowing from it. Mr. Minister, from now on, you are responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u50	I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u51	Your Honor! Thank you very much. I take responsibility until you accept the state budget. Since then, you will be responsible if you do not find this money in the budget. We're professionally prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The question to Justice Minister Aleš Zalar and Interior Minister Katarina Kresal will be asked by Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, Minister! Both the professional public and the research journalism and, last but not least, the Members, especially of the Slovenian National Party, have been asking and warning about irregularities for months and months, but we always run into deaf ears, especially those who are paid and responsible to respect the law, and should be valid for all, both for the rich and for the poor, and even for the client's colors, neither for the independent prosecution nor for the judiciary. And if I touch the content that is certainly worrying, there are 310 million unpaid contributions to which Durs is responsible, which is adapted, according to journalists, every time the will of the ruling policy and not the law. The prosecution was kept informed of the contents of the irregularity. However, as we have heard in the contribution to the first programme, TV Target, it has not been found that it would be a crime, although this law defines and guarantees, which you have not long warned yourself about, but also lawyers, who have often appeared in the media lately, have always warned about this. It is unclear to a worker who has not been paid for months without contributions and who is being pushed to a disadvantage that does not guarantee a decent life how it is possible to file 2 000 complaints, which the prosecution defines as a systemic problem. What about the criminal charges for further proceedings? It's only 68 complaints. Where's the rest of the thousands and more? It is said that it is a systemic problem because there is too much involved and too high sum. So if you steal 5,000 euros, you're a thief and we lock you up. But if you steal or embezzle millions of euros, it's either embezzlement or a systemic problem, and no one's dealing with you anymore. Where to seek responsibility and guilt? Is there a bad law that advocates objective non-payment of contributions also in the generated profits, or is there a link between law enforcement authorities and institutions that should pursue it on official duty? Of course, in the Slovenian National Party, we ask ourselves where are the solutions to today's unpaid contributions. According to data from April this year, employers did not pay up to 130,000 workers. That's why I'm asking: How is it possible that a matter which has a large and strong impact on the country's budget, as well as indirectly on development itself and the provision of payments under the collective contract of public servants, has failed under the pretext that a criminal offence has not been and has been committed? Even though that's clear all the time, we've been moving around all the time and closing our eyes. Of course, I wonder why and in front of whom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u54	Please, first of all, Minister Katarina Kresal. You both have five minutes together.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u55	Thank you very much, President. Dear Members, honourable Members! Here. The basic function of the rule of law is that everyone is equal before the law, and so is these violations in the field of labour law, payment of contributions and taxes. But it is in this fight to achieve this ideal, more institutions that have to do each of their work. In this case, the police come to an end, before which are the tax administration and the labour inspectorate that do most of this work. Only when there are worse violations that point to the crime being committed is the police, of course. It is also of paramount importance that those State authorities which have the power to control the functioning of companies draw up appropriate indications or criminal charges with all other documentary evidence from this point of view. The police do not have these powers in this case. And then the pursuit of official duty is so much better and so much easier. However, the police, and this comes from all the reports they give to the public about their work, are aware of the problems, aware that this is an up-to-date and acute problem, which also addresses how the crisis is taking place as such, and therefore devotes all its attention to this issue and to all the suspicions of the crimes it receives, responds appropriately and investigates them. This is also her obligation, her responsibility and the only authority she has.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u56	Thank you very much. And Minister Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Business first. I have been asked when and in what way, if any, the State intends to recover all unpaid taxes and contributions. I find that I have received this issue as an inappropriate minister because it is the responsibility of the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which operates under the auspices of the Ministry of Finance. However, when it comes to the aspect of criminal law and non-payment of contributions, I must also say that it does not hold true that non-payment of contributions does not constitute a crime. The Ministry of Justice analysed the provisions of our criminal law in May this year and assessed that it provided an appropriate basis for prosecution. On this basis, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office also announced on 26 July this year that it agrees with our assessment that employers, with an intentional non-payment of contributions, will fulfil all signs of criminality infringing social security rights under Article 202 of the Penal Code. If that is the case, he is now at the State's Attorney's Office to file relevant indictments and prove guilty to the defendants. However, the decision to prosecute perpetrators of crimes is of course not the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, but, as has already been said, of the State Prosecutor's Office as an independent state authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. Look, it's about fraud between workers and citizens, but they have to pay taxes and contributions fairly. In this story, it is a matter of enriching individuals at the expense of unpaid taxes and contributions. And if I only mention Steklar's new and Vegrad, where the D.A. hasn't reacted in five years because there's no intention. And how can you explain to me the recent shooting in a Roma settlement? We have heard that this is a problem of a country that has been dragging for too long. Surely I would not mention this if the law were taken into account for all of the same things, but it is not perceived either by Zidar, not by Toběšov, not by Bavčar, not by Shrot and could still be mentioned. The press found that the paperwork was burned down and so on, but you didn't arrest anyone. The professional public wonders whether it is possible to conduct an investigation of such extensive matters without anyone being detained. This year, economic crime has damaged the country for more than half a billion euros. Last year, corruption has cost Slovenia more than a billion euros, and then it is felt that the fact of non-payment does not constitute a crime. Apparently, even if it takes a few years. Apparently, lawyers and corporate accountants can make use of this, but they are always on their side to defend this problem of prosecutors. And last but not least, what is left to be harmed besides hope, but if the law enforcement authorities themselves do not know what the problem is. Obviously, if there are bad principles at the top, the good ones can't be around. The question was quite a question, and if I add, as we've heard, weapons in illegal possession are very large, so I'm worried about where we're going to lock all these people up if they get for every piece of weapons after two years in prison, just like Lucky Friend. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u60	May I have your answer, Minister Zalar?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u61	Thank you very much. This does not, however, apply to the issue of non-payment of contributions at all now, because arms and contributions do not have anything in common. Nor can I accept this claim that there is no one in detention in Slovenia. You have a chance to make sure I invite you to come with me. You'll see, our detentions are crumbly, given the number of people who are there. However, when it comes to non-payment of contributions and difficulties that the prosecution has seen in proving the intention, it is necessary to say here that the National Assembly has also been able to make a strong contribution, not only in this composition, when it has adopted laws that have allowed the tax authority to postpone the payment of contributions and that it can do so for a very, very long time. And this has obviously happened in the past, so the government has decided that this option is to be abolished and the Minister of Labour has already submitted to the National Assembly a pension law that abolishes this possibility. And the Minister of Health will do the same after the government's decision. Therefore, this aspect, the problem of proof of intent, should no longer be open and up to date in specific criminal matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Minister, is there anything else you'd like to answer? [[No, no, ……]] Mag. Majda Potrat will ask the question of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister and Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Minister Igor Lukšič, at the 16th meeting of the National Assembly, I asked you a question that touched on civil and domestic education and the aims of primary and secondary education in achieving this education for active citizenship in the European Union. At that time, I linked my question to what we have in our school documents. I could now also base my question on the recommendation of the Council of Europe, the Committee of Ministers, which also discusses the objectives of teaching history in the 21st century, what the content of educational programmes should be, which include basic proposals, such as tolerance, human rights, democracy, all that our school system has to do with. In 2011, we will mark the 70th anniversary of the establishment of the Liberation Front and the 20th anniversary of Slovenia's independence. I'm asking you: Do you believe that understanding and presenting important historical breakthroughs in the educational and educational process is appropriate for us? Does the Ministry of Education and Sport intend to encourage the special marking of both Slovenian nationalities, important anniversary? This is about the fact that it is precisely by modern approaches to the history of interdisciplinary integration that the use of modern education technologies is possible to achieve everything that helps us to understand Europe's historical past, to also address painful, open issues so that we can cooperate patiently in this environment, culturally, civilizationally, democratically in the future. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Please answer, Dr. Igor Lukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u65	Mr President, Members of Parliament, Members of the Minister! Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the question. Civil education is one of the priorities of the government's school policy and one of the priorities of the European Union's school policy. We understand civic education not only as a cultural obligation, but also as an activity that involves the conduct of politics and the behaviour of teachers towards students. That's why we brought the students back to the sacred high schools and the holy student homes, because it seems important to us that students are involved in decision-making through the "work learning" system. Last year we decided to celebrate the 20th anniversary of the first democratic, party elections with a literary contest entitled Democracy to give you wings. We conducted the competition, and the sponsor also participated, so the students received the appropriate prizes. For this year's school year, which brings two major anniversary for the development of Slovenian statehood, the 70th anniversary of the establishment of the Liberation Front, and in particular the 20th anniversary of the declaration of independence of the Republic of Slovenia, we have prepared a special action entitled Squeeze your hand into your fist, where we try young primary schoolchildren, the 7th, 8th and 9th classes, to encourage schools to prepare specifically for the marking of these two events. The idea is that with the so-called e-book, i.e. the book in electronic form, students individually or in groups in classes visit important sites, museums, read books on this topic and watch movies on this topic. At the same time, we would write our impressions, the results of conversations in this electronic book. The Education Institute, which runs this action, will review these student products and then the best would end up winning prizes. This seems to me to be an appropriate story trying to integrate Slovenian history. There's got to be a problem here. You know that all veteran organisations have reached an agreement concerning the marking of State holidays and the expression of will, however, to begin a single interpretation of history and also of events in 1990-1991. It must be said, however, that the new organisation is somehow departing from this consensus and we find at the school ministry that this will have a bad impression or impact on how, in fact, in the school system, which needs to be consensually supported, it will lead to some interpretation of what has happened. It happens to us that we tolerate, when there is no agreement at this political level and between the various initiative groups, this disagreement in class and we urge teachers to find a way to do so. This seems wrong to me, and it would be right that the policy here, for example, the National Assembly, would be an example in trying to solve this issue, that is, in finding some consensus on the interpretation of these key events, such as the 20th anniversary of independence, the 70th anniversary of the establishment of the Liberation Front in order to [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u67	Thank you very much. In this last part, in my opinion, Mr Minister, you have just pointed out the liver that may be able to stop these efforts. This is because we know from many experiences that parents ’ views may differ in many ways from those of their students. Given that this will be related, however, to electronic interpretations of artistic texts, visits to historical events, excursions, films, songs and all, how will these products be evaluated in order to ensure those principles that are essential for the school process? This is the development of the critical ability of independent thinking, objectivity and resistance to manipulation in students, so that these dimensions can in fact be studied by students and will be their own sayings, while at the same time the results of their work will also be properly evaluated. How do you deal with not agreeing to make a choice if that happens? It is related, however, to a lot of complementary work for teachers and students, and it would be appropriate not to cause tension. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Luksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u69	Thank you, President, for your word. Thanks for the extra question. Of course, these are sensitive matters. It is precisely because of what I have said before and what you have pointed out, Madam Members, that we do not want any additional tension to come here. We went into this action just to give the opportunity to discuss, however, what these holidays are and represent for each individual and for the country of the Republic of Slovenia, the debate is taking place. To avoid any kind of politics, such or other, I mean party, intervened, we formed a special committee of people working at the Faculty of Philosophy, the ZRC SAZU and the Faculty of Social Sciences. The representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Franz Hočevar, is also on the committee. This is a set of experts, historians, and a representative of the Office of the President who, in my opinion, enjoy this reputation to hold on to this hand and to lead the action in this direction, as expressed by the intention to contribute to integration, not to separation, as well as to interpretation. The whole action will be led by the Institute of Education, which means that people who are trained to do so and who also have contacts with history teachers and Slovenian teachers, who are invited to participate first. I think, what was in the power of the Minister and the Ministry, we have done that there will be no great divisiveness in this regard, that these goals will be achieved, that students will strengthen knowledge of history, both of these key events, and that this will contribute to strengthening their civic consciousness.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Likar will be happy to ask a question from the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnificent Nutrition. To Diane Jedhan, who is absent. Please, Mr. Likar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u71	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Given the absence of the Minister of Agriculture, I would like him to answer me at the next meeting of the National Assembly. On the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, a timetable for the publication of calls for tenders for the actions of the first and third axes of the rural development programme 2007-2013 was published in 2010. Half the planned tenders were scheduled for September and October 2010, but none of these tenders have yet been published. The end of the year is near, and I suppose this assumption is also confirmed to me that there will be no calls for proposals this year, so that investments in comas, agromeliorations, irrigation and investments in food quality will be reversed. There will be no funds for early retirement of farmers and for helping young farmers. Instead, at this very time, on 12 November, a new indicative timetable for the publication of calls for proposals for these measures was published, referring to the actions of the first and third axes of the rural development programme for 2010 and 2011, which, as it is said, postpones most of the calls for proposals to 2011. The situation in agriculture is deteriorating from year to year, with a significant increase in agricultural taxes in terms of subsidies representing a significant share of income. During your term of office, you promised to make special efforts to preserve Slovenian farms, including small farms, and to provide as much self-sustainment as possible with home and quality food. I ask you, Mr. Minister: What is the reason for your deviation from your planned activities, and how do you plan to repair your condition? And two: Does the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food even support the development of agricultural activities in Slovenia, thereby producing domestic and quality food? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u72	Thank you very much. The Minister will give you an oral answer at the next meeting. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will ask a question from the Minister without a department responsible for development and European affairs, mag. Mitji Gaspari. Please. I think the minister's coming.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers! Slovenia began to feel the result of the economic crisis at the end of 2008. In March this year, the European Commission adopted a comprehensive strategy for growth and jobs in Europe 2020. The strategy sets out the main priority areas at European level that will focus on future European policies. It also sets out the five main objectives that we want to achieve by 2020. All Member States must therefore submit to the European Commission a draft programme setting out the key measures to achieve the objectives. The preparation of this programme is directly part of your ministerial department. However, the deadline for the submission of that document to the European Commission is 15 November 2010. Given that this is a fundamental strategic programme of the Slovenian State regarding structural reforms, which we are apparently pursuing almost three years after the start of problems in the Slovenian economy, you, distinguished Minister. I'm asking: On what empirical data did you prepare the National Reform Programme? When was it publicly held or any professional discussion? What economic institutes and professional services participated in its creation? And: Why was the general public informed only two days before the publication at the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and less than a week before the deadline for transmission to the European Commission? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Mag. Mitya Gaspari.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I would like to reply to the honourable Member on the slides so that it will be easier, because there are some things that are best cleared up so that there are not too many dilemmas. I will first explain technically, and then that, because the Member asked, also specifically or with certain dates. The National Reform Programme is part of one concept that is being developed in the European Union, although it already exists under the Lisbon Strategy, and the previous government has, I think twice, written the same report, which was called the National Reform Programme, in fact, somewhat more comprehensive, but with the same desire and content as today. This is said, in this European concept, called Europe 2020, you can see what documents should be present in the future. These documents are annual and will remain annual and will also be properly verified annually by the European Commission and the European Council and, of course, also have a mechanism to assess the quality of adaptation under the Stability and Growth Pact and this concept, called Europe 2020, and could easily be translated as structural reforms and adjustments in individual countries. So, we will have two documents, a stability programme, which from now on will also be in the National Assembly in April of each year – I will then tell you in what way – and a national reform programme that will also come to the National Assembly every April as a formal document and will then be sent to the European institutions. If we move forward, the second important element of the European Semester is to place what I said earlier in a particular period of the year. As you can see, the European Commission will issue a growth report in January and will also make the main findings on this – conditions, options and constraints for individual countries. On this basis, the European institutions will then, with the European Council at the helm, study these materials and finally determine whether the individual country should also respond to these recommendations. From April onwards, the European Commission and the European Council will examine each country's national reform programme and its stability programme. If we skip the following, because you will not be so interested in what the European Union and the OECD have recommended so far in the three important segments that form part of this national reform material, this is the labour market, the business sector and knowledge, innovation. If you want, you can look at it in peace later. The European Commission has also assessed the impact of structural reforms on countries if they were to be pursued. They did this with a model of general equilibrium and found that, as you can see, they could increase the quality and growth of the economy by about a third if countries made the necessary changes. In our case, we have conceptually tried to integrate these issues into the original strategy, which is the initial document for the so-called National Reform Programme. Here you have these links that are supposed to work among the individual elements of this document if we want sustainable economic growth in the coming years. In blue, these economic changes are marked, with red, mainly institutional and structural adjustments. The next chart shows something like this that I wouldn't kill you too much. But what I'm saying is that this is also the basis of this material that you're asking about. The next presentation also shows only those things that are an important prerequisite for normal implementation of the reform agenda. These are mainly quality public finances and four elements [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] If I skip the following things, I would just say about the Regulation on Development Planning and Budgeting, it tells us how these things should work with us. This is also related to what the Member asks in his question. Now for a concrete answer. The National Reform Programme prepared by the Government is not a document requiring coordination with the academic sphere and with individual other institutions, because it is an internal matter of government resources. This was also the way in which the materials prepared for the previous government were prepared [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I think it's time. If there's a follow-up, you'll probably be able to continue, but if you don't, I'm afraid not. Do you have a proposal to complete the answer? Please, mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u77	Thank you very much for that answer. I will not go into the mere content of the reform programme, because, according to my assessment, it is actually based on an exit strategy that is actually already under way. I would focus in particular on the situation and the situation in which we are in the Republic of Slovenia at the moment. You yourself, I think, have very strongly warned last week that I will not say, even put at risk what will happen if the pension reform in the National Assembly is not adopted, if an immediate new balance is needed for the 2011/2012 financial year. I think we still have time to fix this. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have drawn up two amendments dealing mainly with savings, savings at around 200 million, for those budget consumers who have absolutely no connection with this financial and economic crisis, and this 5% in terms of 2008 consumption could be saved without any problems. So, I expect if the situation is really so terrible that it could cause a collapse, that we will do so now at this hearing, but I would point once again to what my colleague, Mr Pukšič, has also pointed out, as far as the use of funds is concerned. Thus, a billion 37 million euros were foreseen for 2010, and only a good 500 million euros will be realized. In short, things are shocking and this is actually the reality that all programmes should come from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u79	Just to finish what was previously stopped. This deadline, which you mentioned in your question, November 12th, is an indicative deadline, because it is not a final report, but a starting point for action under the new scheme. That is why the European Commission is essentially trying to see these documents as a previous working version, while the real deadline for the issue of these documents is April 2011. In your question, I think the question has also been raised; just to find – yes, also with regard to the general public. The wider public will be informed through a debate in the National Assembly. As you know from the past, the documents of this nature, the various debates in the National Assembly or the public concerned in that process, such as the previous report on the National Reform Programmes, have not been given a different type of action and there is no reason for it to be different now. What we will do is we will go formally to the National Assembly after the presentation of the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme, and these two documents will also be formally discussed. As far as pension reform is concerned, it was not a threat. It's simple, I'll say, for empirical facts. In the event of an accident, which I hope will not happen, because there are no reasons why a pension reform should not be adopted, this is the first step in the direction that the "rating agencies" will reduce our rating of the Republic of Slovenia, because this has already happened to some other countries at this time. If I tell you just one case, you'll know what I mean. The change in double A rating stable in double A minus represents approximately 50 basis points of difference in funding or debt costs. This would mean the current debt, which is around 40% of the social product, if we are talking about public debt of the country, additional costs at the country level are about 100 million euros per year. Taking into account the costs incurred for the population, businesses and banks in borrowing from their creditors, the estimated annual total cost could thus be EUR 500 million. It is therefore a reminder that we are aware of the circumstances in which this topic is being discussed and the consequences which are, of course, slightly greater than they appear at first sight. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, but otherwise I agree with you that savings in the state budget are always possible. I always suggest that this is not done linearly, but that it is done through programmes, and this is why this year, for the first time, an attempt was made with a programme budget, which has, in addition to the input costs and cost elements mentioned last time on the Committee, of course also indicators on its output results. Both must be combined and then the result is better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr. Roku Žarnic. Please, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished ministers! Dear Mr. Secretary! I have already asked you a question in the area of chimneys for a month in July, and it was somehow felt that this area is being prepared on your part to be settled. However, I must say that, after that question, I have received a number of additional evidence or criticisms, or even appeals, of requests for assistance from damaged parties, which, in fact, because of their poor work, because of the injury caused by the unjustified charging, feel inequitable. However, I have also received some suggestions or additional explanations from chimneys or chimney companies, and those who do what is right do what is right, yet the situation such as now is judged to be extremely critical. The general denominator of all of this is, of course, a lack of or likely lack of control in this area. That is why there is a great potential danger, essentially for all citizens and citizens, that, due to improper or even bad work, smoke fires that may have the worst consequences may also occur, this is that we will also have tragic consequences as a result of poisoning. As I am aware, there were over a hundred such poisons in 2007 and in 2008 there were over a hundred, including these fires, of chimneys that could have catastrophic consequences. And this is the greatest threat that we must also try to eliminate with some good and coordinated work, particularly by the Ministry. In this regard, I would now ask you if you could answer the following questions. The first is: Do you have information on the number of smoke fires or fires due to poor maintenance of combustion plants in the past season? Do you have this official course? Then: Do you have any information on the amount of poisoning? Have you trained a team in your ministry to supervise? And one more question, because I have received informal information that the court should have already stated to your ministry that some chimney companies should have their concession withdrawn because of irregularities, I am interested in: Does this hold, or in what procedure, all these requirements are made by the court? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u82	Please, Mr. Minister Jarnić.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u83	Dear President, honourable Member, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! Smoking's been a bitch ever since I started my term. I am glad that we can talk about this in concrete terms at some point, because this is exactly what helps to solve it, even though the response of those to whom the criticism applies is then quite severe to my address. But it's okay, it's part of the job. So we as the Ministry do not collect or process data on fires, because this belongs to the Slovenian Department of Protection and Rescue, but we can get data from them. For example, for 2009 – last completed – there were a total of 1,676 fires on the premises, of which 477 were due to ignition. When we are informed of the smoke fire, we ask the concessionaire who provides services in the chimney area where the fire occurred for relevant information. So we have recently been informed of two fires one in Apache, the other in Škofja Loka. Both concessionaires were invited to submit a report, including the history of the chimney services provided, at those facilities. They haven't forwarded the data yet. Our Ministry has also requested data from the Republic of Slovenia Protection and Rescue Authority and the Fire Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. We're waiting for that. We also do not collect data on poisons, but we use data from the Centre for Toxicity in the Clinical Center, where they process these data, but not separately, but together with poisons due to the consumption of poisons, drugs, carbon monoxide, medicines, toxic mushrooms and others. There are about 100 cases of carbon monoxide poisoning at the annual level, but not all due to chimneys. We don't have any other information. They have no particular data on whether this monoxide is due to combustion plants. It's kind of broader – indicative. This year, we received no applications for monoxide poisoning in 2010. In October and November, the officials of our ministry carried out professional controls on three chimney operators. For the fourth operator, professional supervision will be carried out this week. I won't tell you which one, clearly. If there is a need for specialized knowledge in the field of combustion smoker systems or causes, errors and consequences of mismanagement and installation, we will engage even more detailed specialists. I have to say, these exams have shown you a lot of interesting things. A little bit in the direction you're pointing, but some will not show and things are happening. However, I must say that we will be very determined to withdraw concessions if there is only enough reason to do so. The Court has not yet received any judgment imposing the withdrawal of the concession. However, in certain procedures for granting concessions by the Administrative and Supreme Court, the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the selection of the concessionaire and the case were repealed. Most of these procedures have been completed. In these discussions at our ministry, we have come to the conclusion that the granting of long-term concessions is very risky. And here's the case. We at our ministry in the area of monitoring chimneys, writing documents have made a radical change in human resources, and this has already been known. In the future, we are thinking about replacing the concession system with a licensing system, monitoring measurable instruments and the ability of staff. And maybe some other time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u85	Thank you so much for this information. See, Mr Minister, what we have learned together is that there is a lack of control, the consequence is that these fires occur mostly on smoke-water devices relatively often and even over a hundred poisonings is a large number and we can only be happy that there were no tragic consequences, at least I do not have that data. Look, there's hundreds of complaints here, at least that's how much data I got, because of the unfair operation of chimney companies. Look, here's the problem. For example, such a well - known case was in Gorenjska, and it was also able to be seen in a newspaper where — partly because of the guilt of the party that forgot the chimney and was not at home — after two such attempts the chimney company put out an account as if the service had been done and it did not. And here's the key problem. And from the amount that was just over 30 euros, it is then because of all those procedures that are not related to your ministry, but because of the recovery or execution itself, this account came to an end of over 300 euros. And this is a great shock for such a person, especially if he has 500 euros in wages. But the biggest problem we see here is that the chimneys actually charge for something they haven't done. And that's why I'd ask again if you could explain: Is this supervision sufficient, or will it be strengthened? I think that this surveillance should continue throughout Slovenia all the time, because it will be a lesson and for all chimneys also some pressure to do their work properly, and I think the situation will significantly improve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u86	Please, Minister Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Well, we know for ourselves that the problem of flooding complaints is also the problem of personnel. You can practically never have enough people to respond to other tasks. That's why we've now approached the development of a system that would, in some electronic way, say, a cell phone, a answering machine when a chimney comes in — time counts, report, instruments Some of these ideas about electronic systems come in, as well as software also try to arrange hardware, and in this way you could see at least that presence through the central database. [[...]] Then an electronic way to accept complaints on a form so that they can automatically handle matters with modest tools. However, to build such a system, we have to put up with it a little, but we are working on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Grill?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u89	Sure. See, even in the debate of the Minister, I have understood that any question or any such discussion is for him to help him deal with those in his department, and perhaps outside, which opposes any solutions that would also regulate this area. That is why I think it would be very helpful for you to have a broader debate on this subject, where these issues are discussed, to suggest some solutions based on the problems that we will raise. Therefore, honourable Presidents, I propose that a general debate be held on this subject at the next meeting, of course. Otherwise, given that the coalition as per the current lane does not always support us, the opposition Members do not support such proposals, but we will certainly try to have such a debate on the Environment Committee itself and on a place where we can even talk a little more about these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u90	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Ivan Grill to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Mr Rok Žarnic to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide on Friday, 19 November 2010, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar will put a question to Health Minister Dorian Marusic, who is absent. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! The question to which I request a written reply from the absent Minister of Health is as follows. Since 1992 governments have been offering us mainly privatisation and commercialisation of health care, although these two processes have caused the current poor health situation in addition to lack of regulation and supervision. In the field of basic health care, one third of health homes have been broken down, the extent of public and private interference is increasing, health care is being irritated, solidarity and access to health services is decreasing. The transfer of licensing and professional supervision powers from the country to the Medical Chamber makes health problems even more difficult. After the withdrawal of the Law on Health and Health Care and Health Insurance during the previous period and also these days, the reform of health is being re-announced. We have long been committed to it by the Social Democrats, the content of the required reform before the 2008 national elections has been incorporated into our alternative government programme, which is also summarised in the coalition treaty. Nevertheless, so far, the motions for the withdrawn laws of Minister Miklavčič have been contrary to the requirements of our programme and European health guidelines. Both laws promoted privatisation, commercialisation, further degradation of health care and the reduction of solidarity. Both laws would mean an even greater shift from European values in health, to which Slovenia is also committed as a member of the European Union. In contrast to our programme, the acquisition of Gaspari to partially exempt the payment of the most tangible social and health contributions is a commitment to the so-called social cap. February is supposed to get new proposals from both laws. I want to know: Who are the people who make the marriage? Will the new legislation propose a social cap? Will the reduction of the rights of the population from compulsory health insurance be proposed, thereby reducing solidarity? And: Will public and private health activities be prohibited? Today, the same person is able to perform public service while at the same time doing the same work in his or her foreign business, espionage, or share. This may result in damage to public funds, patients and time in the public service for greater afternoon earnings. I will, of course, thank the Minister for his answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The Minister will answer orally. It's a mouth, isn't it? It's written. He'll give a written answer. Franc Jurša will ask the Minister of Finance Dr. Franc Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u93	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy 12. On 11 this year, I addressed to the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, because it was precisely then that I asked you, Sir, about the resources which Kad has to make explicitly for the coordination of pensions under the adopted law on the conversion of Kad in Article 6. The amount of this part of the appropriations is around EUR 50 million. The full freezing of pensions is estimated at EUR 100 million in the intervention law from a financial point of view. So, correct me, if I'm wrong, we're estimated at 50 million euros. At the same time, under the current legislation, he is obliged to devote, I repeat, EUR 50 million for the coordination of pensions for each year. The logical conclusion is that, in the event of a half-freezing of the coordination of pensions, these Kadov funds are sufficient to cover the harmonisation. So there's no reason for the government to insist on a complete, three-quarter freeze. Since we have not received a specific response to the meeting itself, but we have obtained information that is not available informally, I ask you the following questions: Will the Law covenant be fulfilled? Do you still insist on complete or three-quarters freeze?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u95	Thank you very much for the specific question. Let me answer that. The law in Article 6 provides that Kad To the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance shall, by 30 September at the latest, charge EUR 50 million each year. The remittance shall be paid as an operating expense and the basis for it shall be the income generated by Kad's asset management. Under the law governing pension and disability insurance and providing for the coordination of pensions, the transfer shall be used for coordination. The profit from the operation of Kad remains on the item of the transferred profit and can be used for the purposes referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and the potential balance may be earmarked for the purchase of new investments. According to my assessment, the financial situation in the Republic of Slovenia is still very tight, we are in the third wave of the crisis, which seeks in particular the stability of public finances and where it is necessary to refrain from a certain cost-effective allocation of public funds. And this gives us the obligation to deal very rationally with public funds. The government is seeking to divide the burden of saving, which is urgently needed in 2011, among all recipients of public funds. The same is true of pensioners or pensioners. In particular, I would like to point out that, so far, the reduction of rights has not been envisaged, but merely the maintenance of the 2010 level. It is true that the Law on the Conversion of the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company and on the Investment Policy of the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company and the Slovenian Compensation Society provides that When each year must transfer EUR 50 million to the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute for the Coordination of Pensions, but this same law also provides that this EUR 50 million must be generated from Kad’s assets management income. At this point, it cannot be certain that Kad will generate a profit of EUR 50 million from asset management in 2010. So it is also difficult to say that these 50 million euros to be allocated to the Pension and Disability Insurance Office must be earmarked for the valorisation of pensions. However, I would like to draw attention to something else: from 2008 to 2011, the mass of pensions will increase by EUR 420 million, which is more than Kad contributed to the Retirement and Disability Insurance Office in the same period, several times more. From year to year, the additional obligation of the State budget to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance is increasing, resulting in a narrowing of expenditure for other purposes, including developmental ones, and this problem is solved through pension reform.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u96	Mr. Jurša, would you like an additional explanation?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u97	Please. If memory doesn't fool me and I don't think so, we were in coalition coordination when we were talking about Kad and this Kad property and also about income. It has always been said everywhere that these funds will be earmarked for the coordination of pensions. Article 6 also states in the second paragraph of the law that this will be intended for this purpose. I will not quote the article because, Minister, you have already answered this by quoting, but I would say that I agree that it is not an easy situation in this country and that more pensions have been paid since 2008 for 400 million euros. But they are not guilty of this; they who live on the threshold of poverty. And those are the ones who should be the ones who are supposed to be the ones who are supposed to be the ones who are going to be the If we are talking today about harmonising one quarter, and we can now make it public that 1.5 euros per month is after retirement. Listen, this means that the pensioner won't buy one daily newspaper or Del to stay on the same level. We are aware of the problems, but in this society, in this country, someone enjoys, takes a large spoon and others do not have a basic survival, that is a key issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u98	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u99	Of course, there are several key issues. We have done everything to keep the level of the social state with stable benefits for those who are acquiring these benefits. During the worst period of crisis, we reacted with a range of measures, one of which was also a Dragan supplement that allowed the most affected to slightly improve their position. It is not said that we would not do such a thing, or we would not do it in the future, if such a need would arise if there were any exacerbation. We can currently afford a certain level of transfers, but we simply cannot go beyond that level. It is expected by economic growth, by continuing to increase demand, that public financial flows will also improve, and that we will later be able to raise pensions or other transfers and pay public servants. If we look at the reasons for the increase in pension funds and the range of scissors between the number of employees and pensioners, then this is population ageing and the problem of early retirement in the 1990s. At the time, the regime of employment relations was such that a whole range of people were able to quickly retire after very low pensions and, on the one hand, they were pressured on the pensioner's pension and, on the other hand, they had such low pensions that there was in fact an open dilemma all the time, or another dradnian supplement, to make their situation easier on occasion or not. That's the problem we've been pulling from the last decade. Its solution is an active age programme, a range of projects, which would also allow for partial overemployment and the possibility of re-improving the social situation by completing different processes. At a time when the results of the hand-to-hand development will be clear that we have achieved a significant shift through the projects we are taking through the Ministry of Higher Education, Science, Technology and the Ministry of the Economy, and then we will be able to target more ambitious objectives of the social state, this may also be a higher level of guaranteed remuneration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Mr Miro Petek will raise the question of the Foreign Minister to Mr Samuel Žbogar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u101	Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, colleagues – colleagues – there is no respected Minister Žbogar! According to some data, Slovenian diplomacy referred in writing to the embassies of the States parties to the Austrian State Treaty or to the State Treaty establishing an independent democratic Austria, as we call it in Vienna for a long time, namely, Great Britain, Russia, the US and France, and asked about the Slovenian possibilities of notifying the succession of the Austrian State Treaty. According to our data, the British Foreign Ministry is expected to respond very quickly, saying that Britain will not agree to a succession notification. The American ambassador to Vienna, however, wrote it further to Washington and, according to some information, he is still waiting for an answer. The fact that Britain has already sent a negative response would, of course, be a very scandalous act of Slovenian diplomacy. If this is true, then it will certainly be one of the major errors of Slovenian diplomacy in the period after independence, since they would close some doors with such a reply. The temperature and willingness of the signatories should be measured more skillfully, with secret diplomacy, through informal discussions. However, if the States parties to the ADP are not in favour of notifying the legacy of the ADP at that time, then they should wait for a more appropriate moment. Throughout all the years of Slovenia alone, this issue of the ADP legacy has been raised all the time, and even this year we held some discussions in the National Assembly, in particular at a joint meeting of the Commission on Relations with Slovenians, both in place and around the world, at the Committee on Foreign Policy. We have also heard and read the opinion of the President of the State of Danil Türk, who clearly and decisively advocates the notification of the legacy of ADP. That's why I'm asking you: Why has Slovenian diplomacy decided to so directly, so directly, ask for the views of the signatory State of ADP and before that did not reach out to other tools offered by diplomacy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u102	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Have a nice greeting to all Members of Parliament! First, I'd like to answer a direct question. Slovenian diplomacy didn't write the letter you're talking about, and unfortunately you don't have the right information about what we've been writing about. And I'm going to introduce this further. This year, 55 years have passed since the Austrian Treaty of State, and we have also talked a lot about this in the Committee on Foreign Policy, together with the Commission on Foreigners around the world. And we found that this year she's 55 years old, a time when there's probably an opportunity for some things to be done. Slovenia's position is well known; Slovenia's position, if briefly summarised, is that the Austrian State Treaty is an international legal instrument which obliges Austria to alert Slovenian interlocutors at all levels and at all times to the necessity of implementing the Austrian State Treaty as well as to non-compliance with the obligations arising; that Slovenia is the successor of the former Yugoslavia, has both a legal interest and a political justification to be considered the successor of the Austrian State Treaty, and we have also made this public several times. As a result of this status, it is legitimate for us to take care of the implementation of Article 7 of the Austrian State Treaty, which is linked to the Slovenian minority. And that is how we behave as Slovenian diplomacy. The letter you are mentioning, I myself wrote to my colleague, the Austrian Foreign Minister, in which I drew attention to the position of the Slovenian minority, to the non-implementation of the Austrian State Treaty. I also sent the letter to the four Parties, the main signatories to the Austrian State Treaty. And this is the letter you're mentioning. This is a letter delivered by our Ambassador to all four ambassadors of the four countries, not to ask them about the succession, but to inform them of the status of the Slovenian minority in Koroška, related to Article 7, for which these four countries are also responsible. This is a very direct answer to your question. Otherwise, the Slovenian foreign ministry, in addition to its activities through letters, through oral talks, both with my minister and with the Prime Minister of the Government, warns the Austrian side on every occasion and somehow reinforces the pressure on the Austrian side. We think we can see some changes this year as well. We can see that there has been a long-awaited start or the start of long-awaited talks, consultations between the Federal Government and representatives of Koroška on the establishment of additional bilingual tables in accordance with the constitutional decisions of the Austrian Constitutional Court as well as in accordance with the Austrian State Treaty. Also this year, the Foreign Ministry, in cooperation with the Office and the Institute for National Affairs, organised a special consultation, a special conference, a symposium on the topic of Koroška Slovenci 55 years after the signing of the State Treaty, where we discussed on three panels the various aspects of this Treaty since the historic beginning of this Treaty, the historical framework of the event, where I think it was a very interesting contribution from the former Oslonik diplomat, how it was formed and changed immediately after the war by the Austrian State Treaty. Then, at the second ommis on the issue of the conclusion and implementation of the Treaty and on the third ommis, also on the international legal aspects of the situation of the Republic of Korea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u104	Mr. Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you for that answer. So, it was a letter. And we're wondering what the answer to that letter is. Were you impressed, ADP's signatories, by any response to this writing? I believe your services are informing you of what the media is writing. See, Minister, News is October 22nd – The news coming from Celovac is the Slovenian week – on page 41, page 3 brought news, "US Ambassador on visit to ZSO", the Union of Slovenian Organizations. It says here, "a high visit these days was accepted by the president of the ZSO, Marjan Šturm in Celovac. Ambassador William Eacho of the United States came to Austria to discuss with Sturm the position of minority in the consensual group on the issue of Slovenia as successors to Yugoslavia, as co-signatory under the Austrian State Treaty. Eacho reported to Sturm that the English oppose Slovenia as successors. The ambassador will report to the U.S.S.O. in Washington, D.C. in the results of the talks. If the ambassador of the United States reported this to Mr Sturm, he obviously knows what the United Kingdom's opinion is about. I want to know: Did you get any answers? Can you get to know the contents of this reply to the National Assembly or at least to the Foreign Policy Committee at a closed meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u106	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u107	First, Slovenia is the successor to the Austrian State Treaty, as I said before. As we do, we do not need to ask questions, at least that is what we are thinking in the government now, for the consent of no one. As the successor of the former Yugoslavia, as we have inherited all other international treaties, we have also inherited our approach to the Austrian State Treaty. Thus, in the letter I mentioned, we did not in any way indicate that we were asking whether any of these countries would agree on our inheritance. On the contrary! In a letter first addressed to the Foreign Minister of Austria and, in the knowledge of the other parties to the Austrian State Treaty, we point out the situation, the unresolved position of the Slovenian minority in Koroška. We haven't received any written answers yet. We got it from the Austrian side, but we didn't get it from the other four countries. The ambassador spoke to each of these ambassadors and handed him a letter and also passed on our broader view of the position of the minority. The ambassadors assured them that they would faithfully transfer the conversation to their capitals. That's how we didn't get the reaction to it, and also, for me to know, we didn't get a negative reaction from the British side, so we wouldn't admit any legacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik will ask the question of the matter sent to the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Rok Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u109	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished colleagues, all welcome! My question, I have also given it to the Minister in writing, is that he deals with the issue of activity or the inactivity of the Government. The Ministry of Environment and Space plays a particularly important role in the preparation of all state investments, i.e. in all areas. This is always true in all debates, when I have the opportunity, I stress. Whatever we are looking at, all state investments are important in all areas; in addition, the basic purpose for which they are being implemented is, of course, an extremely important economic incentive. In doing so, I cannot help but say that there is certainly one of the reasons for the practical downturn, and that the near collapse of the construction sector is also that, first of all years ago, we have greatly accelerated all state investments, without the state preparing new ones. Today we are faced with the fact that state investments are realised, those that have been prepared and we do not have any new ones. But my question specifically is flood safety. Surely, ensuring greater flood safety and recovery after floods is a way of devoting this concern to a certain lack of attention, and this also increases the risk of individual areas and damage to high waters. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary: When will you implement the long-published calls for selection of state spatial plan managers? [[VAT]] or ideal projects [[IP]] in the area of flood protection and thus enable the implementation of appropriate measures in the most affected areas of Slovenia? When will you also provide adequate dedicated funding? Here I am referring to the issue of the water fund in all these most urgent investments and measures to protect against high waters. In doing so, I also think of what has now proved to be the basic maintenance of watercourses in recent floods. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u110	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u111	Mr. President, thank you very much. Dear fellow Member, my colleague on professional salary, not in the Member's own right, thank you for the question and opportunity to somehow tell the public what the current situation is. Currently, five VATes are produced, for which we have most of the required operators, say, procurement procedures, selection of professionals and spatial basis – already selected. And more. Two of these five are already under the roof. In November 2010, a VAT Regulation was adopted by the Government to regulate Savinja in order to ensure flood safety in the organised areas of Ločica near Savinja to Letus. However, a month earlier, October, the VAT was adopted for R2 Radmirje-Luce and for the flood safety of the Luče settlement. The three DPNs are in the process of providing flood safety in the lower Savina Valley, which is the deadline for the production of professional bases on 1 January 2011, is two months. By 1 March, we expect to produce an updated draft, obtain opinions and public disclosure – in July 2011, an opinion on a proposal from the DNP – October 2011 and a coordinated DN proposal for admission to the RS Government – January 2012. Optimized studies have been developed to ensure flood safety in the southwestern part of Ljubljana. These studies were presented to me and I will be pleased if this respected home would be ready to take a brief look at the brief presentation of Dr. Rok Fazarinc's expert, a very interesting simulation, because today's tools allow this. We are therefore in a hurry to complete the completed draft VAT in January 2011, to be drawn up in May 2011, the opinions are expected by September 2011 and the coordinated VAT proposal will be ready for adoption at the Government in November 2011. We're going to be extremely short-circuit and tighten the procedures and speed up the work. It will then remain DN for the transfer of the road to the railways and to ensure the flood safety of the railways with known anger. We expect professional backgrounds from 1 March 2011, the completed draft April 2011, the opening of July 2011, the opinion on the proposal of October 2011 and the adoption of December 2011. Again we are trying to rush here and in the following year practically get this formal part under the roof and then start working 2012. With regard to investment, we have deepened certain measures in the preparation of laws, regulations and, somehow, catching the promised hands when visiting Mr President of the Government. Today, at the college, my colleagues presented me with a draft law on the terms of the concession to exploit the energy potential of the Lower Sava, which, to some people for a little joy, will try to profile most of the water fund money where, more than most Members have always claimed, it does. And we are counting on this proposal for a law that is already ready and which we are now finalising with professional verifications, financial, substantive, legal, because it is very demanding. The law will soon be submitted to public hearing, and I hope it will be here before you this year. We are also amending the Regulation or will lay down in more detail the criteria for the payment of water rights obtained by a water permit, and this will allow for additional inflows. As I have said many times, we are proposing an average of the recommended reimbursements from the OECD, which will bring about some changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr. President, would you like to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u113	Yeah. Thank you very much. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive response; some deadlines have also been mentioned. So, I also got the information that there were some contracts or decisions on the choice of contractors in the last days, either decided or signed or not, but I think yes, and that's positive, too, so I'm glad. Even if my parliamentary question falls on fertile ground to speed up the preparation of all these urgent investments, I will also be happy. Now, if I'm being a little sassy, if my question has accelerated anything, then I'm telling you right now, the question in advance for December. In fact, what about the award of concessions for the use of water for small hydropower plants where things are. But I don't need to, because it's not my question today, and I'm going to ask you this in December, but if it accelerates anything by then, I'll be very happy. Well, of course, here I asked a little questions, but you yourself mentioned, about the railways, about this sightseeing and the professional interview you had with the Prime Minister of the Government, and they were given some hands and so on. There is always a problem of the flood plains near Drava, where my colleague Ribič always, I will say, protest – stresses the importance of all these most endangered areas in Slovenia. Thus, yes – I appeal that these investments, this preparation of investments and in the field of flood protection as well as in other areas should be accelerated by the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Drava is happening, this story around the embankments is in process. With regard to that deposit of the question and the withdrawal of the answer. We've been over this again at college today. First of all: there's a lot of bets, there's backlogs. And now there was one story — whether we first respond to those roles that are very simple, that we know are negative, or whether we put in the first package little negative and little positive. And we'd rather make that choice. In fact, some of these roles were, for which at first glance I would say that they were not actually justified or not physical. [[...]] But – thank you, I will be able to report on some successful roles to your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Bevk alone will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u117	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the second half of September, Slovenia was again hit by major floods, just three years after catastrophic floods and a bad year after Christmas floods in 2009. Almost 13,000 rescue workers, firefighters, civil protection personnel, police officers, members of the Slovenian Armed Forces and a number of other rescue personnel were already involved in the implementation of the protection, rescue and assistance measures. This issue has also been dealt with thoroughly by the State Assembly Committee on Environment and Space. Unfortunately, the consequences of natural disasters are forgotten too quickly, until the flood, earthquake, beach, or fire. Even in this flood, we all found that the water protection system was significantly better before 1990 than it is today. More resources have been made available, and over 120 years of distribution has been established to the river basins and to the lowland water areas. In this regard, I am interested in: At what stage of adoption is the Regulation on the manner in which economic public services are implemented in the field of water regulation and concessions of these public services? Does the future regime take more than a century into account the established division into torrential and lowland watercourses, which has been extremely successful in neighbouring Austria and has been organised since the beginning of the winding season around 1880, which was practically valid until 2002, when the new water law was passed? So what are the guidelines for water management in the future? Is the Ministry considering the introduction of certificates or licences to be held by companies dealing with water management? This would ensure a higher quality of services in this area and thus ensure the necessary expertise in the implementation of works. It is known that in the past many non-professionally constructed objects have simply been destroyed and that the security of property and of people has been only apparent, since the objects have stood still and security has not been fully ensured. Dear Minister Roko Žarnic, my basic question is: Will you re-establish or upgrade a system that has been significantly more effective than today when regulating winding-up areas and areas? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u118	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u119	Your Honor! Thank you so much for asking. In 2002, he introduced or terminated the Waters Act by separating it into chandeliers and lowland areas and began to address the overall management of river basins or basins; the whole length, not the lower part and the lower part. In Article 3, the principles of water management also define the principle of integrity, which takes account of the natural processes and water dynamics and the interrelationship and interdependence of aquatic and peripheral ecosystems in the catchment area. This means an approach to water management, which is no longer based on partial solutions, but on integrated solutions – within the river basin. The territorial basis and water area for water management shall be laid down in Articles 52 and 53 of the Water Act. In the following year this law will be opened as promised, and then we will also consider these proposals and thoughts and will also be able to talk about it, including on the committee. With regard to the Regulation on the manner in which the compulsory national water public services in the field of water management are carried out. Just before the floods, we had a final meeting, and we have informed concessionaires of this regulation. Floods have come, we have come to some new knowledge, because we see that it is better to add little more knowledge to this regulation, especially what you are talking about, about licenses, including the question of how to deal with it. However, I must say that every designer is also legally responsible for quality design, the same contractor. For licenses I don't know, we should probably have some other stories, conditions that are already here with us. [[...]] In ensuring flood safety, the problems stem not only from system regulation but also, as we already know, you yourself have said, from the scope of the funds. Some unfortunate floodtime, when it was, coincided with the time when this year’s annual funds were at an end and now, when they were needed most, they are somehow running out. This Sunday, together with the mayor of Ljubljana, we had a tour of several points – what happens after the floods in Ljubljana and also talks with citizens. We are now collecting some correct comments and wishes to respond. So, something's going on in this area, pretty intensely. Another interesting thing may be possible; this spring – no, next year 2011 we will organise a digitised recording of the whole of Slovenia. I have to say, this is a multi-department project. The Ministry of Defence has kindly offered us, within the framework of regular implementations, two aircraft that allow this to happen. So it's not going to cost the planes, it's going to be just recording, processing. We will also call for an international recording offer, because such devices are evolving and there are certainly companies that give the same money as a result of a better case. There's gonna be orthophotos, too. In fact, everything in the direction of fulfilling the idea, which has already been discussed in public on the committee to be good enough for municipalities at a sufficiently precise level, 1 to 5,000, somehow provide flood maps. The idea is that the state is said to provide digitalised footage to the ministries. This is 20% of the cost of cards, and then we try to share with the municipalities in some way the cost and issue the other cards so that in two years we can get very accurate maps of the whole of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk alone, would you like a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u121	No, it is not a procedural proposal, but an additional question regarding the Minister's reply, which, of course, I thank him for what he said, because it seems that something will finally move in this area. In fact, it's not just curate, it's prevention. So far, we have all been doing too much to repair the damage caused by the floods, after various natural disasters, and the essence must be in timely prevention. For example, since the end of the 19th century, from everything organized, I would say, works in Slovenia, since the end of the 19th century, have been made up of up to 6 thousand 600 different objects, various fixed and flood barriers and thresholds. From my own practice, I know that this investment cycle stopped there after almost a century after 1990. In addition, this non-professional decision, which no longer took into account the nature of the winding-up areas, although you are talking about comprehensive regulation, which, of course, I agree with, but I think that this specificity, which has a long tradition and which is well-spoken in Austria in practice and because Austria is very similar to our configuration, should be reintroduced to the winding-up of this division into the winding-up and lowland parts and that all these preventive, including the winding-up measures on the watercourses have been carried out as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u123	Thank you very much. I wouldn't go into professional details right now. As I said before, when the water law opens, we will organize an expert panel, because they are advocates of one and the other solutions. At that time, we will try, and then I would be very happy if even on the committee, with interested Members present, we could talk about this. That's what I'd like to say. We estimate that 100 million euros is currently needed for the rehabilitation and maintenance of buildings in Slovenia – partitions and other facilities. No new constructions, just for recovery. I have to say, some things are showing up here. Mr Rob is now in a bank that has money, somehow fighting for Slovenia, and there are some possibilities of very favourable credits in the order of EUR 100-150 million, as the Czech Republic has received with some delays, with favourable interest rates, and I think that this option should be taken seriously, and we are working on it. Then there will be engineering problems, personnel and so on. However, this is something that does not belong in this debate today, that it will not turn out to be a guarantee, but we are trying, as you said, to be proactive in trying to avoid worse things in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will ask the question of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister! I am asking the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs about investments. In fact, this ministry you run — fortunately, I will say — is the most powerful finance ministry. A lot of money, and probably still too little, is available for investment, and the means to rebuild and build a new home for the elderly are important. This is all the more important for Slovenia because our population is getting older. Given the relative investment and construction, it is also extremely important to control these constructions and the use of resources, especially whether they are of sufficient quality. Investment control is all the more important because, generally speaking, inspection or inspection services work poorly, and even worse, the judiciary works, of course, in the event of disagreements and disputes being resolved through court if quality is involved and judicial proceedings are brought. I'm asking: How does your ministry ensure that you spend a dozen million dollars on investments by your ministry? That's what it means to spend on those investments where you're basically an investor because the funds are drawn from your ministry. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u126	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u127	Dear Mr. Vice President! Dear Mr. Petan! Let me start by saying that our ministry actually allocates a lot of resources, but unfortunately, they are investments, especially for investments in homes, relatively little, only about five million a year. The procedure is governed by legislation and we follow that course. However, it is of course that, as long as we detect hidden errors which are identified by the Ministry as contracting authority, the contractor and the user in writing after taking over and obtaining a user authorisation, the contractor is obliged to remove them within the agreed time limit. Such a practice is stable and we are also resolving these issues in this sense. On a case we both know, maybe the easiest way to do it is to show it. This is an example of Lamprecht's home for the elderly in Slovenian Konjice. This is a stable order. In 2007, the construction contract was signed to start works with the contractor Kongrad. Then, in 2008, this house was built, dedicated to the user. A user authorisation has also been issued. Then, in June 2009, we signed a contract between the Ministry and the user to put this home in user management. Now, of course in this case, because it is a new object, as usual, minor and hidden errors may also occur. And then some of these minor errors were solved by the contractor. Other errors that have proved to be such as locking in the facility due to damage to the water supply have been detected and repaired. Now, wetness in the facility is determined, for example, to determine whether the recovery was fully successful. Then there were errors in the boiler room and ventilation and cooling and since it was found that the temperatures in certain rooms were too high, the complaint was announced and also saved. On this basis, we agreed to extend the climate guarantee by one year. The biggest problem is still the roof, where the complaint is still under way. We agreed with the contractor that he would find out by 5 November. He reported that he could not do so by 20 November. As a result, however, he stated that he did not have enough workers and weather conditions. Just today, 15 November, a meeting between the contractor, the user and the ministry on the correction of the remaining errors takes place at the home itself. I do not yet have what the agreement is, but I can assure you, and this is one of the key supervisory instruments that, if these complaints are not fully eliminated, the Ministry will approach the money of the bank guarantee. I'm sure we'll do that. However, I hope that the contractor will be ready to agree today to remedy these mistakes and that this will not happen. Otherwise, of course, we must guarantee and guarantee the responsibility we have assumed as an investor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. So, about what I've heard, I have to admit, I'm quite happy. But don't let anyone think it's a simple matter. I was just backing up that question, in general, with the case. In fact, there were journalists in this house, and in one of the Slovenian journals they wrote with a large address when they looked at: For the elderly in the Slovenian house also good holes in the roof. That's just one general assessment. In view of what they have also found; to close the roof to reach the roof windows, ground surfaces, estriches, pipes and connecting elements on the water installation, fittings. The walls are full of moisture, they do not dry out – of course, if they had to replace 15 of these fittings that are in the wall. Now you can imagine that in fifteen places in a wall in a house of deserts, floods, then all the walls are full of water. In addition to the fact that it leaves — it still leaves because it is not yet saved — with larger rains, it means that the building is full, which is very beautiful; it leaves the water; and you know that the building in which the water is will fall apart sooner or later. Of course, there were a lot of problems as well — for example, the hot - water circular platoon did not work properly, instead of hot water running cold. The ventilation, the ventilation system is not effective or works wrong, the air is hot instead of cold. You can imagine, at 35 degrees outside, there's hot air. This has happened, this is very bad. I'm not going to comment on where this can be seen. This week, a guarantee for certain works will expire from this particular area for about €700,000. And now, if that holds up, what you said, Mr Minister, I believe you, just the question of what the rest will look like, because lawyers come and say, and you have nothing to look for there, and these are the experts who can say. So I hope that this will be fulfilled and I am grateful to you for this intervention, and I only hope that this will hold because we are all looking forward to an investment, and it is sad if then a new investment fails. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u130	Mr. Minister? Okay. Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the question of the Minister for Environment and Space, Dr Žarnić.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u131	Dear Minister, Mr Vice President, fellow Members! The waste management programme is foreseen in Slovenia by 15 waste management centres. In one of the reports from your ministry, it was written in bold print and it was underlined that this was the task of the congregations. Apparently, in Slovenia, the municipality will never agree on how many of these centers will be and where individual municipalities belong. Your predecessor has already announced a reduction in the number of centres, the former secretary of state from your ministry, Mr Kus, has announced ten centres, but we still do not know how many of these centres we need and how many of them will really be in Slovenia. The Committee on Environment and Space has already requested a report on the preparedness of these projects at one of the first meetings, and this report is not yet available. Since no more than 190 municipalities have accepted any spatial plans from 210 municipalities in Slovenia, I am concerned that some of the planned centres are not even placed in space. They are intended to build and draw on European funds in 2013! I am afraid that these waste management centres will not be built by 2013 or 2015 and that the envisaged European funds will remain unused for this purpose. I'm interested, and I'd like to answer the question: Do you already have information at your Ministry about how many centres are needed in Slovenia? Apparently, without prejudice to your ministry, it will not be determined or agreed upon. How many centers are needed and which municipalities belong to each centre? I'm asking for that answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u132	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Waste is evergreen darkness and I am pleased, as I said in the water, to repeat this question repeatedly with the fresh information I can offer you. The story in this programme started in 2004, 2008 was somehow the first concept of centres. With the data at the time it was calculated on certain quantities, at the same time it was intensive to raise awareness of the separate collection of waste, which led to another story, that these quantities of municipal waste were dwindling and that this dynamic process was somehow ongoing today, when the needs and desires of the municipalities were identified and also from the potential of the municipalities, all related to the municipal VAT. I have to say that this is about working together, but there are certain stages of this work that we as a ministry can, if I may say so, press. They are defined, however, where, in fact, without the participation of the municipalities and then at the level of negotiation and also in the production of the foundations, unfortunately, we cannot exert any more than some informal pressure. However, this matter is slowly going as far as a happy ending. The problem is that a large number of centres, as perhaps today, want from five years ago to face a problem, what will be the problem tomorrow, when all these centres will be fed by the flow and then fight each other on the market. In one way this is interesting for municipal companies, and on the other hand we can get a clear question from the European Union as to how we planned. After the latest concept and thinking, which we cannot completely turn on our heads – as I have said many times before – some concept of grapes. The matter is proceeding in this direction that we have set – and then I will report more specifically – ten centres of order I, where at least 90,000 people and then five centres of order II are involved, where at least 55,000 people are involved, which is already a severe, severe lower limit. Maybe if I went to the data point, because that's what you're interested in. CERO Celje, we already know, has been operational since 2009. CERO Ljubljana is in the process of implementation, we expect it to start operating in 2013. We also expect CERO Pomurje, CERO Dolenjska, CERO Koroška, CERO Zasavje, CERO Slovenska Bistrica and CERO Podravje to operate until 2013. For 2015, CERO Gorenjska is being prepared, we count on 2015, and CERO Primorska also 2015. This will also capture the use of money, so there will be no harm in keeping the money somewhere. Unfortunately, you have a very precise list of congregations to which it belongs – I think it is out of time. I must say that very intensive discussions are currently taking place at the level of Trebnje and the municipalities around Trebnje and New Town. In Trebnje, there was an unloving story when some municipalities fled to Ljubljana for a long time. In this way they will now have to negotiate matters with the New City. I have to tell you that this whole story about waste, municipal companies is so complex, because it's also a business that these community-level deals are sometimes complicated and sometimes, we can say, not exactly comical, but interesting. And here we try to do what we can, in conversations with the mayors, the others, to do something about it. These elections were also a little something that gave us five minutes to relax, but now that we know who the interlocutors are, it will be easier to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u134	Mr. Lah, would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u135	Thank you. Well, the elections are over and now we have a new momentum, and we are likely to demand even more certain answers or ministry activities. In fact, in Dolenjska we have CEROD, we have built the first phase of the depository body, the rehabilitation of the existing body, in which it is well-drived, not only from Dolenjska, Posavje and White Krajina, but also from elsewhere, from Slovenia. The project for the second phase of the NBO is expected to be prepared by the investor for two years at the Ministry. And right now, in the fall, your ministry's inspector issued a decision prohibiting the deposit in this depository body because the waste was not previously processed. And since this project is in your ministry, I have repeatedly asked about where the obstacles are, where it has stopped — both investors and your services — and I have not received a concrete answer. The last answer should be from your ministry to include Trebnje and move on. I want to know: What will be the solution if the disposal of waste from 160,000 inhabitants in Dolenjska, Posavje, and White Krajina is truly prohibited? Where will we drive to process this waste, and what will be the cost? Of course, I cannot expect an answer from you, but the costs or complications will be great, so I expect this project to be confirmed as soon as possible, because the municipalities also have the resources to pay taxes that will fall if the project does not start soon and this funding is also used for this purpose. That's why I'm asking [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u136	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Like I said. Just Dolenjska, you know, even in the newspapers there was a lot of writing, it's a pretty tough nut. And as far as possible, it's just a conversation with the mayor of Trebnje and the New Town. I don't know very well. When we talk, everything looks great, but when we ask for some of the things we need to move on, it's about European funds, it's about very difficult clear answers that we don't get from the ground, we're unfortunately blocked. And I would ask you very much if you could help us in your area and somehow resolve this matter. We're on stand-by. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u138	Please, Mr. Lah, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u139	Well, I promise we'll do our best, because this is a big problem for the whole area, even the region, both Posavje, Dolenjska and White Krajina, that this will happen as soon as possible. Even if the Sneaks get involved. In a way, I think that's gonna get rid of that. However, since this issue is so acute, not only in our area, but the entire territory of Slovenia, I would suggest that this be discussed in the National Assembly. I think it will be very useful and that other Members and Mayors will have something to say and may also help to resolve this as soon as possible for the benefit of the entire territory of Slovenia, not to transport these garbage from one end of Slovenia to the other end and only to increase costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u140	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Zvonk Lah to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and the space to his question, the National Assembly will decide on Friday, 19 November 2010, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Minister of the Interior, Mrs Katarina Kresal, will be asked by Mr Peter Verlic. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Dear Minister! It is not possible to ignore your efforts to increase traffic safety, which is, after all, shown by the results. The decline in the number of accidents started somehow back in 2007, when a traffic law was passed for the first time, which increased penalties. Even now this continues, which is very encouraging, and I am also very pleased and, of course, I wish you to continue this successful work here. However, when we have again a law to increase the penalties even for the most serious misdemeanors and I am judged to exceed speed, however, it is somehow felt that sometimes police officers with their control of speed measurements are not where they would be most expected, it is before schools, in front of kindergartens, in front of pedestrian crossings, but sometimes it seems that they prefer to be somewhere at the end of a settlement, where, in fact, nothing else, except that someone is already speeding, although they can't. But still. Even more – this was the last time my personal event, which was not the first – when there was a police vehicle measuring speed, parked in a standstill niche in the castle Kastelec in Primorska. I can't imagine what would happen if I had to stop there, say, an emergency truck, because this retirement niche is probably meant to do so, and because of this vehicle I should park somewhere on the road, it's said inside the tunnel, and this could result in reduced safety for other traffic participants, but not least, reduced police safety. It has also been observed, or perhaps it is a feeling, here I would ask you for this answer, that these measurements should, however, be made and implemented in a way that serves a preventive purpose and will not endanger the safety of police officers or road users. That's why I want to know: What are your instructions or directions? How do you continue to see a system of control that serves its purpose and may not endanger traffic safety? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u142	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Chairman. Thank you, Your Honor, for the question. The dilemmas you've opened are still in place. It is true that for some time now the number of traffic accidents, the worst traffic accidents, has been declining, but we cannot be satisfied with this, so I am giving the police appropriate guidance in this area as a minister myself. Essentially from the new approach, at least mine, in relation to what the police are doing in this area, it is the fact that they would no longer receive the kind of police work you described; that is, when police are standing somewhere where it is not safe, they are jumping out of the bushes, they are at the end of some flat roads or, eventually, they are also wrong in the tunnels. These are the real problems that we want to address with the orientations that go in the direction of targeted traffic control. So we may be able to talk about this a little bit further, but it is indeed a new approach that we have begun to introduce at the beginning of this year. So the police have to analyze the dangerous sections, the dangerous areas where the most accidents are, and say, here we go to control. But there was a different philosophy in the police years ago and years ago, and you can't change that philosophy overnight, so I believe that cops are standing where we all think we don't need them, where there are no worst problems, and that there's a lot of people in traffic because of that. However, it should be pointed out that this pilot project in the celery area has proved to be truly effective, that the police have the direction to introduce this system by the end of the year in the whole of Slovenia, and I hope that when it is clear that all police administrations must work in the same procedure, such unloving controls will be less. Otherwise, with regard to specific directions, what you asked. Of course, the police must carry out 70 % of the measurements on road sections where the most traffic accidents are due to speed, 20 % of the measurements have to be carried out at points where speed problems are the most common, or where such violations occur every day, and 10 % of the measurements must be carried out where citizens are required or expected. They too listen to what they themselves judge to be problematic. The aim is, of course, to achieve traffic calming or to ensure that traffic takes place in accordance with the rules. Sometimes we hear that cops are just incassants and that their purpose is just to collect money, but that's not true. Given that their standards are not set according to how many penalties they receive, given that the general direction is not only me as minister, but also lower down in the hierarchy of the police, that it is done by targeted controls and that it is also evidence that the money collected does not go back to the police, but goes to the integral budget, so there is really no internal desire to just collect penalties, but not to direct security in traffic. As far as the tunnels are concerned. A number of traffic accidents have already occurred due to the speedy ride in the tunnels, so police, in cooperation with Darsa, have also set up some stationary radars, and the police have also started working inside the tunnels. The occasional controls are in the tunnels, they are not short-lived precisely for these reasons that you mentioned that this may also be dangerous. The police usually stand back and stand down at the beginning, leaving enough room for the rest of the vehicles to stop and, as we say, stay there for a short period of time. However, such control has also proved to be a good prevention because the number of accidents has been significantly reduced. However, it is also possible to point out that there is always a police officer in the car who can move him away at any time, as far as it turns out that he is no longer fit to stand. In short, given that this is also an area that is very potentially open to indeed serious traffic accidents, police have also begun such checks after consideration to ensure that drivers are aware that they must not go wild in tunnels as well. In fact, today it is shown that this has positive effects, and the speed has decreased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u144	Would you like an additional answer, please? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Thank you for that answer. This really shows that police action is actually targeted at prevention. I've deliberately avoided it now, indeed. In the oral question, I wrote that the feeling that they are incassants is, of course, also doing dangerous work and that is why this was my question in this direction. I think that citizens, if they are already increasing their sentences, will be very pleased with your answer, when we see this also on the ground, that there are cops where you actually have no reason to say, well, now there's a radar, if that's going to be in the pedestrian crossing or at a black point. As for tunnels, perhaps just a question or an initiative. I think Dars has some control systems in the tunnels and speed control to record them, but I don't know, maybe I'm wrong that these systems haven't been tested. It is said that speed can be checked within the tunnel itself and maybe just like, I don't know, an initiative or a proposal to ask in cooperation with the Minister of Transport to maybe get these tests, and then, in fact, we'll all be able to drive through the tunnel, know that we can always be controlled by someone and the cops in there won't have to wait for the violators anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u146	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u147	Thank you very much for this proposal. I'll also check with the Minister of Transport, under which Dars belongs. To the extent that it is possible to provide control that would be safer for everyone, both the police and those who drive through the tunnels, of course I am immediately for, but, as it is said, it is an area that I do not know, so I am happy to forward your initiative and when I get an answer, we say some on this topic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Although they both went a little past the rules of procedure and talked about initiatives and adoption of initiatives, we are moving on. Mr László Göncz will raise a question to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u149	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, ladies and gentlemen! I am asking the question about the uncertainty of the legacy procedures and the obligations of heirs to recover the value of the financial social assistance received by the procurators. I estimate that there is a great deal of confusion in this area, perhaps partly because of lack of information. The law on succession in Article 128 provides that the inheritance of the property of the person who has benefited from the aid in accordance with the social protection rules shall be limited to the amount of the value of the aid received. This means that it becomes part of the procurator's property corresponding to the value of the aid received, the property of the State if the aid was financed from the state budget or the property of the municipality if the aid was financed from the budget of the municipality. Article 6 of the new Law on Social Security Benefits provides that each person shall, in his/her capacity, be entitled to care for his/her own decent survival and the decent survival of his/her family members. Whoever is unable to do so has the right to financial social assistance. Under the Social Protection Act, financial social assistance is provided to beneficiaries with funds to meet minimum living needs at a level that makes it possible to survive. Unfortunately, we know a number of pressing problems in this area. These are examples of the fact that in the event of the death of a long-term unemployed person, the heirs are required to recover all the social benefits received, but because of the extremely low income and the difficult social situation, the family or family is not able to reconcile the social aspect, perhaps even the disputed obligations. Some express the view that if social assistance, which is justified and determined on the basis of objective criteria, is to be returned, then this is not actually a social transfer, but just a loan, perhaps with a slightly facilitated condition. The additional question is: Why is it that the account of the social assistance received does not exclude the apartment or the house in which the recipient lives? As I have already said, the problem is also in the area of information and there is likely to be something to be done in this area. What I'm interested in is: What social transfers are returned after the death of the user? Are the state's claims for refunds, social transfers ever obsolete? After the death of an individual who has enjoyed a form of social transfer during a certain period of time, will the heirs be deprived of everything that the prodigal has created in life? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u150	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u151	Thank you very much for this question, which has recently been very up to date. Let me put it this way: this has already been judged by the Constitutional Court. It's about the 128th Section of the Succession Act. The Constitutional Court ruled on the possible conflict between the right to private property and inheritance on the one hand and the right to social security of other citizens on the other hand and concluded that, in order to achieve the social security of other citizens, access to the right to private property is possible, i.e. permissible, necessary, appropriate and must be proportionate. The Republic of Slovenia, as it says, is a social state. On the basis of the right to social security, it is incumbent on an individual at risk to provide adequate assistance and must not endanger that individual’s rights by unduly pooring funds to provide such assistance. Thus, poverty would have occurred after the court’s interpretation, if it had not been for an adequate return on property. The protection of the right to social security of an individual in a particular case requires the State to receive the aid recovered from persons who, at the time of receiving the aid, had property, but needed it for themselves and did not in itself generate income. In such a case, it is constitutionally permissible for the State, after a person no longer needs assistance, to pay from his or her property, which would otherwise be obtained by his or her heirs. Otherwise, the State would unduly reduce the means of providing assistance to others who need it because they do not have other appropriate means of living. The Constitutional Court also stated that the right to private property and inheritance for an heir does not give rise to the right to inherit the property of the prodigal without being prepared to assume any obligations relating to the succession of the prodigal property. Of course, it also includes the compulsory reimbursement of the social assistance provided by the procurator from the State. This aid preserved the value of assets that could otherwise be used to sustain the cost of living during the time of the prodigal’s life. And after his death, of course, this property is an object of inheritance. According to the Constitutional Court, it is essential that the heir has the option of autonomous choice, it is said to take care of the prodigal, or to give up his inheritance, or even pay this, instead of giving up his inheritance to the State. However, the unwarranted expectation of heirs is that they may inherit the property of the prodigal regardless of the fulfilment of the bond claim, as this would result in their unjustifiable enrichment. As regards the procedure, it is a matter for a party to apply for monetary social assistance, which means that it is the subject of a procedure in the case of an application for monetary social assistance, a decision on the right to financial social assistance. The recovery of funds in the form of financial social assistance, which the recipient has rightly received for the duration of his or her life, shall be decided by the court only in the succession proceedings, which means that this is not a matter of administrative procedure, but a matter of judicial procedure. Therefore, the centre of this in the monetary and social assistance decisions does not record, does not have to mention it and does not have the appropriate legal basis. Although the law on inheritance has been in force since 1976, 34 years of age, it has also been supplemented by Article 128. The Regulation has been published in the Official Journal and is therefore considered to be familiar to citizens. Nevertheless, in future applications for social security benefits, we will give notice of what Article 128 of the Succession Act provides. Social work centres have also been informed about this issue. So that there will be no more uninformed behavior. On the question of why the calculation of the aid received does not exclude the apartment in which the recipient of the aid lived, it is necessary to clarify once again that, in the case of Article 128 of the Succession Act, it is not an obligation for the recipient of the aid to recover the aid and that this obligation arises only after his death in the succession process. So the recipient is not bound to pay back during his lifetime. Therefore, the limitation period for the recovery of the aid received also begins to run only after the death of the recipient of the aid. However, it should also be added that, in the event that the progeny of the progeny is themselves in need, the State is in a position to make this recovery [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Gonch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Most of the questions were answered. Thank you very much. Perhaps you would stress the importance of better information, for you have also expressed your willingness to intervene. But as a question, once again, I am asking the most pressing cases, indeed, those of the family or of the individual who is socially at risk of not being able to return the work or amount that is set, and there are some such cases, particularly in our area, where the social aspect is in one way or another a little more difficult. Is there any possibility of long - term repayment or anything else? Otherwise, another social problem may arise from an earlier consideration. And this part, please, if you answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u154	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u155	Yes, therefore, it is also the case that Article 129 of the Law on Succession or Refund of Aid provides that such aid may be waived in part or in full by the State. This is a matter of assessing the specific situations in which the heirs are in this case. And of course, if they are in a difficult social situation, if they themselves are entitled to social assistance or if they have to return it, it will be clear that the centres or courts are doing so accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u156	Havela beautiful. Mr Anton Kolarič will ask the Minister for Education and Sport, Mr Igor Lukšić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister, ministers, colleague, colleagues! The sports public is probably looking forward to Thursday's government decision on how to organise a European basketball championship in 2013. I don't think it's just the sports public that the whole of Slovenia is waiting for this decision. Especially since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already issued the Koskarka Association of Slovenia on August 24th this year an agreement to apply for the organisation of the European Basketball Championship in 2013, because, of course, basketball in Slovenia has a great tradition, because we are finally achieving excellent results and, finally, this is a great opportunity for the promotion of Slovenia, since basketball is at least the second in Europe, it is immediately behind football. We all know that during these days, representatives of the European FIBE visited Slovenia and looked at the possibilities of organisation in Slovenia in the area of space, transport, safety and so on. We know that they were pleased with all areas, except that we lacked a hall. But I think this is a unique opportunity for Slovenia, which will not happen again very soon. It is also true that large financial investments, as I know the facts, are divided into several years. I personally expect a positive decision and hope that this championship will be held in Slovenia in 2013. As far as the halls are concerned, maybe because I know there are no final decisions yet on where the competition is supposed to be. We've all forgotten about the Autumns, but I won't be too long. In this regard, I ask the Minister for Education and Sport: What is the position of the Ministry of Education and Sport and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards the organisation of the European basketball championship? In view of the fact that, at first, both the Ministry and the Government expressed their restraint, I wonder what the thinking is today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u158	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u159	Mr President, Members and Members, colleague and colleague of the Minister! It's a very inviting matter. Slovenia would have hosted a major basketball championship, the European Championship in Slovenia, for a long time since the World Cup in Tivoli in 1970. We all know that Slovenia is a basketball nation, that our basketball players achieve excellent results. We're probably the most represented resident in the NBA League. The result that our team achieved at the World Cup in basketball is also phenomenal. So this is actually a basketball nation and this European championship would certainly be the crown of this endorsement. The problem, of course, is that there are some open problems – the main one is financial and the other is financial, and the other is financial, which the Member of Parliament has also talked about. It's a question of the halls. It is necessary to have 5 sports halls with at least 5,000 seats. If we could still somehow resolve this issue with this idea that the Member has given us, also with this idea that we might engage another hall near Slovenia, here is the final offer or financial structure that we received at the Ministry of Education today, which says: The amount that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is supposed to pay as a cost, let's call it a membership fee, an accession fee, is EUR 6 million 500 thousand. 750 000 euros is a bank guarantee or deposit that the Government or Slovenia, the organiser, was supposed to pay on 19 November, that is Friday. And then there's the assessment that the government is supposed to contribute EUR 6 million to the construction of two halls. Together, €13 million falls on the government. For the purpose of organising the European Basketball Championship, the basketball union is expected to contribute 7 million 500 000, so the total cost for the Republic of Slovenia would be EUR 20 million 500 000. The organisers expect the total revenue of EUR 38 million to be EUR 950,000. It is estimated that the difference in income, the remainder of income of 18, would be almost €19 million. This is the material the Ministry will prepare for the government on Thursday. In the Government, of course, colleagues and the President of the Government will have to decide on this. The point of view of the Ministry of Education and Sport is that we want this event. Of course, at the same time, we know that in these circumstances it is necessary to ask, above all, other colleagues, those who cover the resources that have mainly convinced people at these times that certain investments, projects need to be reduced or their wallets reduced and so on. So that I think that the government will have all the arguments before it and on this basis can, taking into account all the facts and everything that this means for Slovenia, be able to make a good decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u160	Mr. Kolarich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u161	Thank you. If you don't mind, I'd just like to make it up to you about the halls, because I've already started. I mentioned the Autumns. At this point, the hockey hall is being renovated, which can be easily rearranged for basketball and has more than 6,000 seats. So it is probably possible to find a hall in Cyprus, and there is something else that costs you, too, that I do not agree to now that I do not know how many new halls would be built, which would then possibly be built, although I am sure that New City would not be alone, so that I hope that this will also be taken into account and that these deadlines that have been set up can also be agreed to buy a little more time against Phoebe and the Kosharka connection, so that there is only some consensus to come to this European championship. I am personally confident, as well as many of my colleagues, that in the next 20 years Slovenia will no longer have such an opportunity.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u162	Thank you very much. There are many initiatives today, fewer questions, although I am very happy about these initiatives myself. Mr Marijan Pojbič will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mr Ivan Svetlik, and the Minister of Economy of Mrs Mag. Darji Radic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u163	Hello, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary, Mr. Secretary! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have constantly warned the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the coalition that the measures taken in the area of economic promotion, economic growth, the creation of the conditions for the creation of new jobs, the prevention of further increase in unemployment, are weak and incomplete and will not be sufficient to improve the economic and social situation in the Republic of Slovenia. Unemployment is increasing, and there are no special developments in the economy for the better. Recently, unemployment, unfortunately, has gone beyond — we have talked about this many times — 100,000 or more. It is therefore necessary to take urgent action and prevent the further increase in unemployment and to reduce and adopt measures to improve the economic and social situation in the Republic of Slovenia. It is also particularly worrying that in Slovenia unemployment is significantly higher than official statistics show. As stated on the SDS website in the article Europe recovers, Slovenia falls, we need a new exit strategy, I quote, "in parallel records we find at least 14 000 unemployed and 2 000 500 long-term unemployed. If the records could also include 14,000 foreigners who were still employed in Slovenian companies last year, the picture would be even worse. Nor do statistics burden the unemployed who have been removed from the records for various reasons but have not been employed. But there are many of these, in 2010 alone, as many as 25 thousand 222. Their exit from records does not mean that they came from those who contribute to the reduction of the budget deficit and to a more stable health and pension allowance. They mostly retired, re-entered school or even worked in black". That is why I ask you, Mr. Minister and Mrs. Minister: What will you do to prevent further increases in unemployment? And secondly: What measures do you plan to improve the economic and social situation in the Republic of Slovenia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u164	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr Pojbič, Commissioner, let me immediately say that as regards unemployment statistics, we are using internationally comparable methods and indicators, and according to these indicators, Slovenia is still in that group, that quarter of the countries of the European Union that have the lowest unemployment rate, and I believe that much of this is also at the expense of the measures that we have appropriately targeted so far. Now, if you are referring to higher numbers, these are due to the fact that many times it does not distinguish between unemployed and unemployed or inactive, which, of course, can be listed outside the methodological framework that the European Union has used, of course, in any other way. The fact is that unemployment has increased in the last period, but much less than some have predicted, much less than expected. At the same time, we are pleased to see that movement in the labour market is favourable this year. The rise in unemployment is significantly slower than it has been in the past year. This year it increased by 6.2%, last year by almost half. We have included almost as many people in the active employment policy this year as we did last year throughout the year. Last year, a total of 48 thousand 500 people were self-employed and employed, while this year, 47 thousand 300, almost as many as last year during this period of the first ten months as last year throughout the year. The demand for workers has increased by more than 5 and a half percent, only indicating good movements. Of course, we also increased spending on the protection of the unemployed, so that in 2008 around 100 million were spent for this purpose, last year 191, we anticipate 238 million this year to protect the unemployed and next year about 200 million. Funding for active employment policies is also increasing. Last year was 88 million, this year 120, and next year will be slightly lower. We are following up trends in the labour market and employment and, of course, we are also taking action accordingly. As regards social protection and social situations, I would like to stress in particular that international comparable data show once again that the level of poverty risk in Slovenia has decreased by 1% from 12.3 to 11.3% since 2008 to 11.3%. And that puts us in third place in the European Union. This could also be attributed to certain measures that have been taken and to those that will be adopted. In the coming year, the Social Security Benefits Act and the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds will enter into force, which will further focus on the most vulnerable social groups. We are also preparing a new Act on social protection activities that will improve access to relevant social services. With regard to protection, I would add the effect of the new labour market regulation law, which will enter into force on 1 January next year, allowing faster access to monetary compensation for young people who are employed for a certain period of time, and will select the relevant periods more quickly in order to be able to obtain this assistance. We raise the amount of this aid for the first three months and extend it for the oldest workers. Social protection, of course, includes what we do in the area of scholarships, because it is also usually the association of people with specific social, economic problems. I would also like to mention the pension reform, where we will stop the further fall in pensions when it is implemented. As well as other changes, reforms in the labour market, where it might be particularly important to mention the drafting of a law on the retirement fund, which will be otherwise regulated and which the individual can then find more reliable, since today, despite the right to retirement, many workers will not eventually receive this pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u166	Mr. Pojibich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u167	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, Mr Minister, after all you've just said, there should be an ideal situation in this country, after what you just said. You were talking about the superlatives themselves, which you can understand from those records that you have written there, but in fact or, I will say, and practically in Slovenia it is completely different. For the first time, I am sure that what you claim to have improved the situation in the area of poverty is very difficult to convince me because if you walked around Slovenia a little bit, you would see how far this economic policy or government and also this coalition has brought this country and people who are practically 400, 500 or 600 euros living. I think it's not only the threshold of poverty, it's more than a threshold of poverty. This is practically impossible to survive, under no circumstances can it survive. And it may, perhaps, be funny for you, Mr Minister, because it bothers me the most to laugh cynically, but it also seems very funny to Mrs Raditsev, and not to me, but to those people who work for 500 or 600 euros, they don't think it's funny. Of course, this is not a problem for you, for obviously life has been a little more favorable to you, so that you have not had these problems, nor can you understand what this means. But, well, I'm not going to the personal level, so I'm not going to the personal level, I'm going to say the following, and I'm going to ask. Mr. Minister, tell me: Is there a European country in which unemployment has increased by 100% in two years? Please state to me that European country and that that country is successful, as the Prime Minister of the Government has said here today, when he answered some questions, that it is a success for him to keep the number of unemployed to 109, 110 000 unemployed by the end of this year. If this is the success of any government. And given that you took over the leadership of this country when there were about 55,000 unemployed in this country, we are now close to number 110, or at least I think it's higher. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u168	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u169	I'd like to give my word to my colleague Radić. I would say, however, that many countries where unemployment has increased much more than in Slovenia. With us, it's about 50%, not 100%, if you're counting. There are countries with close to 20% unemployment, and we have this 7% surveyed method.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u170	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for asking. Mr Pojbič, I must say that I did not cynically laugh at this fact that there are a lot of employees in this country of EUR 500, but I have a cynical laugh at this because it is necessary to look at the reason why most workers today have 500 euros in the Slovenian economy in Slovenia. The original sin of having such a situation in the economy today is the fact that the Slovenian economy has not been restructured in the past four years, says it has not invested its resources in new products, in new services that would allow for higher added value, thus, of course, higher wages for employees. At the time of the conjuncture, there was an opportunity for that. The fact is that the Slovenian economy has entered this crisis very badly. I am sure that, even if this crisis were not the case, economic growth in Slovenia would turn down. That's a fact. I must say that, of course, such an economic situation and such a situation in the economy has in fact also dictated our direction or direction of this government, what it can do in the field of the economy, of course, and now under the conditions of this crisis. As you are aware, the first measures taken by this government in the area of the resolution of the financial system crisis have been. You know, we were ahead of the collapse of the financial system, and the fact was that at the time, the state had taken measures that had allowed the financial system to actually stay. However, a second set of measures was aimed at direct assistance to businesses in order to make it as easy or as nice as possible to survive this crisis. Here were two types of measures, one which were actually aimed at alleviating the crisis, I am talking about guarantee schemes, I am also talking about the guarantees that we gave to small enterprises through the Slovenian Enterprise Fund for bridging liquidity problems, after 200 000 euros, these were measures we implemented to mitigate the crisis. However, the Government's basic focus was that, despite the crisis, if we want to ensure one long-term, healthy, stable growth, we have focused all the resources available to this government on healthy businesses, on promoting the development and development of healthy businesses, those companies that were also able to invest in this during the crisis. And we helped these companies. Over the past two years, we have given over 500 million development incentives to the Ministry of Economy alone for these development purposes and have supported 3 000 500 companies. We will continue to do so. We've already made arrangements. The call for the co-financing of development centres of the Slovenian economy, another 185 million in healthy groups of companies, was concluded today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u172	Madam Minister, I must tell you that there is something wrong with the measurement of time, that you are already running out of time, so I have to stop you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u173	I'm sorry. I think I've explained the main reasons. The Government is absolutely implementing measures adapted to this situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u174	Mr. Poebick, you want a word? Procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u175	Yes, of course. Procedural proposal. I propose that a broader discussion of this issue be carried out in the National Assembly, but I will, of course, justify it. First of all, I would like to say that the Minister replied that those four years of government by Janez Janša were to blame for the economic situation in that country. That's about what you said. But back then, 6 to 7% was economic growth. Unemployment was the lowest in the history of Slovenia. That's not normal. Thus, the one who led this economic policy led it so that it could properly set economic guidelines and economic development and the country. And that's why what happened was exactly the opposite of running this country by your government. Look, I'm going to make some arguments about the economic situation in our country, then I'm going to say why I'm saying this, so I can then justify why this procedural proposal. We are all aware that the economic situation in the country is still, I think, very serious. The key problems facing the economy are issues of growing liquidity, lack of procurement and investment, lack of access to credit – a huge problem, administrative obstacles and complex operating conditions. The structure of the economy – absolutely unfavourable – is still too long, too liberalised procedures for obtaining grants. More than 133 000 people or 26% of employees in companies whose added value is less than €20,000. So only 24% of employees, or just over 120 thousand people, create an additional value of over 40 000 euros. The number of unemployed, as we have already said today, has exceeded the limit of 110 000, a problem that we can only expect to be maintained by some 60 000 jobs through these intervention measures of the Government, which are being implemented. We can also expect that in the future the economic space will be further shaken by some bankruptcys and forced settlement, I can list them as much as you want. The government doesn't encourage the economy, it even blocks it. This is also my assessment, because it has done little to promote domestic consumption, but is taking measures in the opposite direction, such as raising excise duties and cutting investments with the budget's rebalancing. The budget is not developed and competitive. However, the measures taken by the Government are largely ineffective or do not work. Look, Madam Minister and Minister, if it were different, unemployment would not increase. Mr Minister spoke about this, it is clear that the global economic situation is also partly responsible for the economic situation. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. On the proposal of Mr Marijan Pojbic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister's and Minister's response to his question on the matter, the National Assembly will decide on Friday, 19 November 2010, in the framework of the votes. Mr Janez Ribič will ask the Foreign Minister Mr Samuel Žbogar the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u177	Dear Minister, ministers! Your Honors are here! At the end of October, homosexual activists launched a poster campaign to convince Slovenians and Slovenians to support the proposal of a family code, which states that two mothers or two fathers are equally good for children. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the very controversial financing of this campaign, since, according to homosexual activists' statements, it is financed by the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in Slovenia with 6,000 euros. I understand this as a direct intervention of the Dutch Embassy in the legislative process of the Republic of Slovenia and an action against the current legal order in Slovenia. These are very inappropriate and non-diplomatic moves by the Dutch embassy. As Deputy Dutch Ambassador Nelleke Linssen explained, for an officer, this practice of their embassies around the world is common. Our foreign policy focuses on the rights of homosexuals around the world and the embassies have detailed instructions on how to participate in specific situations. Let us ask ourselves whether the Netherlands in its territory would allow, for example, the Slovenian Embassy to finance a law campaign to abolish the Kingdom in the Netherlands, because Slovenians believe that it has survived the form of government, or to abolish the possibility of adopting children by homosexuals in the Netherlands, since the vast majority of citizens and citizens in Slovenia oppose it. In accordance with Article 21 of the Political Parties Act, parties must not be financed from abroad, nor should they be financed from abroad under the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act in conjunction with the Political Parties Act. The purpose of these prohibitions is in particular to prevent foreign influence on legislative decisions in our country. The Dutch Embassy is deliberately interfering with this funding in the legislative process in Slovenia. The possible adoption of the disputed code will certainly be followed by a referendum, and this is why it is already a referendum campaign on the family law financed by a foreign country. I'm asking the Foreign Minister: As foreign minister of the sovereign and independent Republic of Slovenia, what did he do in the event of an interstate incident, namely to involve the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in the legislative process in Slovenia, by financing only this campaign to adopt the contested family code, which provides for the seizure of the child's fundamental natural and human right to his mother and father in Slovenia? I also want to know: How will you ensure in the future that foreign countries will not interfere with the legislative processes in our country, as this is prohibited in our country, as it is said? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u178	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for asking. First, I would say that Slovenia is, of course, a democratic country that supports the functioning of NGOs and civil society. Alone or we in the foreign ministry are very close to all Slovenian NGOs and this cooperation will enrich the work of the foreign ministry and we will continue to do so. After all, the Slovenian state itself was created to a large extent also in the context of the activities of civil society at that time. First of all, I would say that, as Slovenia, we can probably be proud of being in that group of countries that are not afraid of their non-governmental organisations, which is also not afraid if these NGOs receive funds for their projects and activities from abroad. I do not think that we are in that group of countries that see the financing of NGOs from abroad as interference with internal affairs. I think this group of countries is somewhere else. We are pleased that Slovenia is not part of this. As I understand it, the Netherlands has supported the project of Slovenian NGOs to promote tolerance in Slovenia. In its foreign policy, the Netherlands supports the promotion of human rights, supports the promotion of tolerance and has also supported the project in Slovenia. I don't think it's about interfering with the referendum campaign, the referendum hasn't been convened yet, and it's actually all hypothetical thinking about what's going to happen to the referendum. However, I must remind myself that within the European Union, the practice of supporting it is quite eluded to support the functioning of non-governmental organisations in third countries. Many non-governmental organisation projects are also funded from the European Commission through the European EU Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights. Slovenia itself supports NGOs abroad. We directly support non-governmental organisations in Kosovo, and we support most indirectly through our NGOs, because we want to strengthen the work of our own NGOs, we want to strengthen the capacity of our own NGOs, and we also use resources through our foreign NGOs. So this is something that is essentially a fugitive from practice and I don't think we need to be afraid, there is no need for fear if our NGOs are also acquiring funds from abroad for their projects. I do not see the possibility of Slovenia supporting a project to abolish the Kingdom in the Netherlands or to restrict human rights because it is not an external political objective or the interest of Slovenia, but I see the possibility that the Slovenian Foreign Ministry could also support a project to extend tolerance and multiculturalism in the Netherlands or the Dutch NGO for a project in the Netherlands if such a request came. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u180	Mr. Fish, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u181	Thank you. That's what I'd say. I understand that because of your own interests you are afraid, you strongly defend the interests of the Republic of Slovenia abroad. This time, in relation to the Kingdom of the Netherlands, which in these days, through its embassy across all major Slovenian cities, finances posters for the adoption of the proposal for a family code. However, we should be aware of who pays you and you are paid by Slovenian taxpayers. Most of these do not agree that marriages are equal to same-sex communities and that the same-sex partners are allowed to adopt children. After all the surveys carried out, most Slovenian citizens and citizens advocate that the child has a fundamental natural and human right and that he needs a mother and a father. Therefore, it is certainly not in the interest of our citizens and citizens that a foreign country interferes with how family relations will be regulated in Slovenia. Not to mention, of course, that a foreign country is interfering with our right to adopt laws and laws ourselves. But if it happens to be diplomatic practice for countries to interfere in the legislative processes of another, something common, because I have not yet known and noticed in Slovenia, I ask you: For which laws and in which countries did the campaigns finance Slovenia? How much money has she spent on an individual of these cases? In this way, which organizations abroad have she supported? In the event that Slovenia does not intervene in this way in the adoption of laws in other countries, I expect you, Mr Minister, to ask the Embassy of the Kingdom of the Netherlands to apologize to Slovenian citizens and citizens and not to carry out such campaigns in Slovenia in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zbogar, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u183	Thank you very much. First, I would say that, as I understand it, the Netherlands does not hang posters across Slovenia; this is what Slovenian NGOs do together with some other organisations. The Netherlands has only supported the project of Slovenian NGOs and I do not see where the problem is. Slovenia, as I said before, is already funding NGOs of foreign countries, specifically in Kosovo, but I do not have a list of which projects we are financing. The European Union is even more funded by various projects under this Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights in countries where they also say that human rights in their constitutional framework are not, for example, defined as the European Union wants them to be, and as it encourages NGOs to promote them. So I would not like to be in that group of countries that have such views that any interference or any support for projects of non-governmental organisations is already interfering with the internal affairs of countries. I think we have already gone through this phase into some new phase when we can relax and, of course, when we can allow dialogue, people can decide for themselves at the end what they think is best for Slovenia. But dialogue is never too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr Darko Menich wants to ask Minister Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In spite of your absence, will you ask the question? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u185	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. All in attendance have a very nice greeting! Despite the absence of a distinguished Minister, I would like to ask a question and ask him to give me an oral answer at the next meeting. Despite the amended Spatial Planning Act, municipalities in Slovenia still have difficulty in drawing up municipal spatial plans despite reflection on the staffing reinforcements of certain ministries and despite constant warning. One of the main problems in this is the failure to comply with statutory deadlines by operators of space regulation, including the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We have been waiting for your guidance for 7 months in the congregation of Šostjanj. I therefore ask the Minister: What does he intend to do to ensure that the procedures follow the legal provisions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Following your proposal, you will receive an oral answer to your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u187	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u188	Mr Branko Marinič asks the question of the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič. Mr. Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u189	President, thank you so much for your word. Nice hello to you all! Dear Minister, the G1 - 3 state road has changed the way of life for many of the inhabitants of Pomurje, who live along the road. By allowing heavy goods to be diverted to that road, the State recognised the error. The Supreme Court ruled that people on G1 - 3 were entitled to compensation. The legal basis for the State's liability for compensation was laid down, allowing the traffic of heavy trucks along this road, thereby violating the fundamental constitutional right to a healthy living environment. The State first offered to settle and avoided even greater costs due to damages, and later stopped paying damages with the excuse that there was no money. Dear Minister, I ask you the following questions in this regard: How many beneficiaries have already received compensation, and how much money is involved? How many beneficiaries are waiting for compensation, and what is the amount of money? What is the estimated time dynamic for all beneficiaries to pay compensation?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Here's your word, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u191	Thank you, Chairman. Dear Member and honourable Members! Since 2005, the owners of residential houses along the G1 - 3 state road have filed over 2 thousand 500 claims for property damage and, on the basis of 600 legal decisions, decisions and settlements issued, compensation was paid to the injured persons in 2009 amounting to 4 million, 636 thousand,824 branches of 19 euros. This year, €1 million,338 thousand,766. The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia, which is at the Ministry of Transport as a body, only implements these damages financially. On the basis of the Government's conclusions, both in 2009 and 2010 we provide this money from the budget reserve. It is now awaiting payment of over a thousand 900 houseowners who have submitted claims for payment of around EUR 4 million. It is difficult to talk today about the projected timing of compensation payments, I can say that on Wednesday there is a meeting on this subject at the Ministry of Justice. Otherwise, the Ministry of Justice and the State Attorney's Office are the ones who are taking the procedures, and our Directorate of State Roads is just doing what they agree. And these are the data that I have now available, and more can be known after this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Marinič, an additional question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u193	Well, thank you very much, Minister, for your answer, even though I have the feeling that I've only got the partial content of the answer. I have been quite specific in asking the question. The fact is that the State, when it has paid for some time, and according to some data directly affected by those who have written to me, should have settled this compensation by 20% of the beneficiaries, while 80 % should not have been, which of course puts all the injured persons in a very unequal position. The letter addressed to them also states that Minister Zalar has made a promise that the State and he, on behalf of the State, will ensure and arrange that all beneficiaries will be paid in terms of the compensation they are entitled to. Now, if I had a term in your reply, I would have somehow met my answer, but from your explanation and a concrete reply, the Minister-designate, it was not possible to see when these compensations would be paid on time and thus eliminate this inequality of all beneficiaries to compensation. I am sure that Minister Zalar and I will also address this subject, of course, in the interest and early realization of all those who are entitled to compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Dr. Patrick Wlačič will complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I have another letter today bearing today's date. I received it today from the Ministry of Justice. In this letter, I am informed that the State Advocate for Defence, an external department in Murska sata, has tabled a proposal for the approval of a review in the case of certain defendants in relation to the District Court judgment in Gornja Radgona, concerning the Supreme Court’s judgment. The decision of the Court of Auditors in this case will have important legal implications for the resolution of a large number of judicial cases in the various courts relating to applications for compensation for property damage due to increased traffic on the G1-3 road. Since the decision of the Court of Auditors in this case depends on what further guidance will be provided by the competent ministry in the same cases, on the basis of an agreement with the Ministry of Justice, Finance, it is first of all a request to the Supreme Court to give priority to the matter. And that's the last piece of information I have, but once again, I only got it for the record because I'm not the custodian of this procedure. I was happy to reply with all the information I have available, but otherwise we are just the ones that are paying off, in fact the Ministry of Justice is the one that is leading the process.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u196	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by Mr Guido Kres, Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic. I'm informed that Mr. Žarnic is on his way. Mr. Kres, maybe we should wait a few seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u197	I'm here to wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u198	Mr Roko Žarnic is coming and Mr Gudo Kres has an opportunity to ask a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, Madam, Minister, colleague and colleague! At the 19th regular meeting, I asked you a question of the funds allocated to the public administration of the GEOSS area in 2010, which is defined by law as an area of special national and national importance. In response, you assured me that the funds I was asking for had not been abolished, but that they had been reduced by EUR 20,000. And that's true. I understand that there are reasons for the reduction of funds due to savings, but the company for the development and maintenance of the geoss as a concessionaire with such a reduction of funds cannot implement the obligations laid down by the Law on the Geometric Centre of Slovenia or by the concession contract. The funds mentioned are EUR 20 000, i.e. the majority of the use of society for current obligations, while the implementation of the 2000 social programme is severely reduced and threatened to some extent. I have here a letter from Heraldic, which is threatened by this, and I would read to you what they wrote me in the letter. Heraldica Slovenica received cash from the state concessionaire GEOSS for organizing the ceremony on the day of the flag of thousands of EUR 500. This year, when we are preparing for the 20th anniversary of the State of Slovenia, the 20th anniversary of the Slovenian coat of arms and flag, the 20th anniversary of the Heraldica Sloveniana Society and the 19th anniversary of the membership of Heraldica Sloveniana into the world organisation FIAV, we received 500 euros until recently, explaining that the competent ministry had reduced money for the GEOSS protocol facility by law. Since we consider ourselves a community of NGOs in Heraldica Slovenia, regardless of the ideological definition of membership, we ask you to help us realize the projects in honor of our symbols, which are worth celebrating in April of the second year. However, we expect the government concessionaire GEOSS to pay the highest attention to the event on the geos. This is the result of this reduction and, therefore, I would like to remind you, Mr Minister, that a 50% reduction in contractual resources could only be taken into account by amending the concession contract, which has not happened. The question that follows: Will the Ministry of Environment and Space, or the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia, allocate additional or remaining budgetary resources for the normal functioning of the company, thereby restoring the legal situation, allowing the implementation of the complex programme of society for 2010? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Dr. Roko Žarnic, Minister for Environment and Space. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Like the last time we talked about the same thing, I said. Unfortunately, my answers are what you expect. That's all I can say. When the budget is adopted or in any form, we will try to talk to GEOSS. For some specific tasks, such as this, this is a shameful EUR 500 project, so we will try to find some other things within the internal reserves. I can't here, you know, I'm not in a position to talk about any promises I don't like to make. However, I can say that we will try to help in concrete bilateral discussions on these things for what concrete actions are yet to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež will ask Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs, who is absent. Will you ask anyway, Mr. Frangež? Are you going to ask the absent Minister? No, no, no. Mr Frangež will ask the question next time, next time. Mr Ivan Grill has the floor, which will also raise the question of the delegation to the absent Minister of Health, Dorian Marušić. Will you ask me a question? Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, I will ask the absent Minister a question, but I would like to receive an oral answer at the next meeting. My question to the Minister of Health is in connection with the difficulties of funding a pharmacy activity. This is also a problem that has been dragging for several years now and has arisen at a time when this resort was led by former Minister Miklavčič. Since then, we have warned that the model of financing for small pharmacies, which is mainly the issue of prescription medicines, has been unduly modified so that small pharmacies are at risk. This is mainly the problem of rural areas where the concentration of people is already low. It means that if they want to receive medication, they must go far and that when people are sick, it is even more difficult for them. We have also drawn attention to this issue at the urgent meetings of the Health Committee at the end of 2009. Even in 2010, when we pointed out this problem and called on the Government to find a model to try to solve this problem in a way that does not require additional resources, but to finance small pharmacies slightly differently than those that have their own businesses in large cities or where there is a high concentration of the population. Mr Marušič then committed himself to finding a suitable funding model, to convene or form a specific working group to explore all options and then to present and adopt such a model. Unfortunately, to this day this model or this change is not available and the pharmacy, as I have already said, especially the small pharmacy, is facing major problems in its financing. Some have already been forced to shut down their activities or can carry out their operations at the expense of reducing depreciation, which is certainly doomed in the long run. That is why, of course, I would like Mr. Minister to answer me: When exactly is this model going to be made? When will these changes take place so that small pharmacies will not be affected here? As I am aware, this informally, the association of small pharmacies has already complained to the European Commission and, of course, if it is true, it will have some distaste for Slovenia beyond the Slovenian borders, which cannot be useful to us. That is why I expect this situation to be resolved as soon as possible. I thank him in advance for his response to the next session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u204	Mr. Grill, a written or oral answer? Get up. Mr Grill asks for an oral response at the next meeting. The question asked by Dr Peter Verlic, who is absent, is why Mr Vinko Gorenak will ask Justice Minister Aleš Zalar the question. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u205	Thank you very much. I'm glad the minister's with us. Mr Minister, I am already in the parliamentary question to the President of the Government, in fact, when we were talking about the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court, but I would now rather not have in the coalition the feeling that in the opposition we were "floating through the parish" as it is called, trying to give some legal light to the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court, regardless of which. 62.a Article 62 of the Law on the Courts in fact makes it very clear that the President of the Supreme Court is appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Minister. In this procedure, the Minister is obliged to obtain the opinion of the Council of Justice and the General Meeting of the Supreme Court. I must stress, he's bound to get an opinion. So we know it's not binding. I see the procedure for appointing the President of the Supreme Court as a two-phase one, which may be the first phase, which is somehow preparatory in nature and carried out by the Council of Justice and a general meeting of the Supreme Court. The second stage is more constitutional, you might say. This is where two main actors come in – one is the National Assembly and, of course, a minister. That is why, in my opinion, it is a combination of decision-making between the Minister and the National Assembly. The National Assembly, we know it's political, because it can't be different, and it's political. This was the last time that Mr Šorli was not suitable because he had forgiven Paul Rupar, but it was a decision of a political nature that is just as it is. But your decision-making can't just be political. Your decision must be, in my opinion, professional as well. You're a politician and you make political decisions. There is nothing to dispute here, but you have, in addition to a political decision, respect or disrespect for the Supreme Court of Justice, to carry out the legal procedure for appointment, and you are not bound by the opinion of the Council of Justice and the general meeting. I do not think you can hide yourself for the opinion of a general meeting or the opinion of the Supreme Court, but you are obliged to verify all the facts in this regard as well. In view of the fact that the Law on Courts does not prescribe a procedure such as that, for example, it prescribes a Police Act for the Director of the Police. That's not what this law requires. According to my assessment, you will say this, it would be in line with this Article 3 of the ZUP also to take account of this Act, and above all the 145th, 138th, which says that the Minister is, in my opinion, obliged to examine all the circumstances. I'm asking: Was the procedure so guided? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u206	Mr. Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, of course, you correctly quoted Article 62 of the Law on Courts governing this procedure for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court, with my personal opinion that this procedure could be different, even more qualitative, at least in that part of the opinion of the General Meeting of the Supreme Court, which, as is known, is expressed in the form of support or non-support to the candidate without justification, as opposed to the opinion of the Council of Justice where it is always justified. And I have highlighted this problem in the previous Mark Šorli nomination procedure, which I have also proposed in the appointment, as I have just proposed the appointment of Mr Branko Masleša, then also with the approval of you, Mr Gorenak, and your party. The appointment procedure shall also be a legal procedure in the work of the decision of the Minister of Justice, whether or not he proposes to be appointed. Therefore, the decision of the Minister of Justice must also be justified. This explanation is the basis for the possible judicial protection of a candidate who may not have been selected in this proceeding. For it is known that the applicant has no judicial protection in the event of a final decision on his appointment or non-name being taken by the National Assembly. That's a pure political decision. However, the decision of the Minister of Justice is a legal decision. This decision by the Minister of Justice is also not legally binding. That is why the opinion of the General Meeting of the Supreme Court and of the Council of Justice is so important. In this respect, the Constitutional Court has specifically pointed out in one of its decisions and the warning that the Minister cannot simply bypass these two opinions, regardless of whether they formally do not bind him in his decision, whether he chooses and proposes him or not. In particular, the Minister must be defined for these opinions. In all proceedings so far, both in the case of the former candidate, where one opinion was negative, it was specifically the opinion of the general meeting and a positive opinion where the opinion of the Council of Justice was concerned, as in the case of candidate Masleš, where both opinions were positive, I have also defined myself as Minister in explanation for all of this. In doing so, he fulfilled his marital duty and carried out the judgment I have to make as Minister, taking into account what you pointed out at the end. So that I have checked all the relevant aspects of this candidacy, not only in a formal sense, but also in a substantive sense, and in the end also in terms of the suitability or inappropriateness of the candidate. What I considered relevant in this process, I have assessed, I have defined myself, this is what you find in my reasoned proposal and, of course, I am behind it. This procedure has therefore been carried out in accordance with the applicable Law on Courts and in a manner which has been established following all the procedures so far for the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court. Of course, it is now at the National Assembly to weigh this proposal and, of course, to try to follow the objective criteria for the selection of the candidate to the greatest extent possible. This is what I, as Minister, would like the National Assembly to do more often, which is a problem in view of the very broad staffing function of the National Assembly, an electoral function which it has not only in the appointment of the President of the Supreme Court, but also a number of others, including not only judicial officials. It is therefore essential that the decision on appointment be based on objective criteria, which are, of course, set by law, to take account of the candidates' features. In fact, this is what the rule of law requires of all of us, even in the end from the Members of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Of course, Mr. Minister, but the law says, "check the facts and circumstances in the spirit of public interest." That's how we all have to work, not just you or me, probably someone else, especially the judiciary. But look at one thing, after the Council of Justice has already given its opinion, and after the general session has already spoken, so it has expressed its support to the candidate, the Constitutional Judges Jan Zobbez, Janez Brank, Rudy Stravs, and the Chief Justice have made public. These are the ones that are public, in my map it's huge, you know, but I can expose you publicly. You were also at your disposal, gentlemen, and most likely it would have been at the time of the opinion of the Council of Justice, the general meeting of the Supreme Court until your proposal last Monday, look, you say, 'objectively decide', right, Mr. Minister, did you objectively make them when you didn't even call them for coffee? [[...]] Mr. Zobca, Branka, Stravs, who all came forward, they all appeared to you, publicly, in the media earlier. In my opinion, you are obliged to have a conversation with them and their arguments, which they have made publicly, to face the candidate. But I think it's still time and we still haven't missed the last train on this subject. As Minister, you still have the opportunity to withdraw a proposal a month ago due to the new circumstances that appear every day. And these assignments, talking to the Constitutional Judge, I'm the Constitutional Judge, despite sometimes criticizing them, I wouldn't miss it. And I think it would be extremely good to do this at this point in time so that we don't go to the High Court in some normal procedure, considering that you check out what these judges have said.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Aleš Zalar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u211	Thank you very much. So, first of all, it is not true that all these statements by some of the judges you listed were known before I sent the National Assembly a proposal for appointment, at least when it comes to Mr Stroves, that was not the case. However, when it comes to statements made by those who did so before I sent this proposal to the National Assembly, I would point out that these were not statements intended for those who were deciding. The statements addressed to the decision-makers and delivered by some, including the Supreme Judges, have been taken into account and have been taken into account in the opinion of the General Meeting of the Supreme Court, and have been taken into account in the opinion of the Court of Justice. I also specifically checked and obtained assurances from both the Supreme Court and the Council of Justice that all members of the two bodies had the opportunity to familiarise themselves with these allegations, gave the applicant the opportunity to comment on these claims and, on the basis of this, made their decisions, in other words, gave a positive opinion. Apparently, the candidate convinced them. And when you talk about this possibility of meeting with these people who claim something that candidate Maslesha denies. They had this option, and they had it at the last meeting of the Human Rights Commission, and they did not want to take advantage of it. Maybe you'll give them another one in the National Assembly. I am aware that candidate Maslesha has told me that he is ready to face these statements at any time. And that's all I can tell you about it, or that's the only advice I can give you about it. The master of this procedure is now the National Assembly, not the Minister of Justice. It's up to you to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u213	Yes, of course, as in the first question to the President of the Government, I propose the same procedure here too. So, the debate in the National Assembly, in particular, I will say, I regret to repeat it for the public, the minister argued that he had checked all the relevant circumstances. And the candidate said to the camera, "Yes, I was on the spot. I saw a dead man." And there he stopped, "I was there as an investigative judge." But he didn't say what the minister didn't want to see what happened next. Whether it is an organ or a Slovenian court, a military court or anyone who conducted any proceedings. A dead man is not a dead cat. Not today and not in the past. But let's just settle for saying, "Yes, I've been there, I've seen a dead man, from a distance, because he was lying on the Italian side," and now we say, so a common session, as a minister, that it's okay. Look, if that's okay, it's after an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly tomorrow, not at the next meeting. Let's think about what we're doing. There's still time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mr Gorenak, will be decided on Friday in the framework of the vote. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor, and he will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u215	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. My question, as you have already mentioned, is addressed to Minister Ivan Svetlik. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Borut Pahor, said after the meeting of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 28 September this year that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would, according to his assurances, take appropriate measures to ensure that those with the lowest salaries and pensions can live with dignity. We are aware that some measures have already been taken in this direction. We know these measures and do not ask for them, but I ask for the measures that you intend to take, according to the President of the Government, to continue to introduce the social situation of the weak during the term of office. In this regard, I am specifically interested in: What are these measures? What social groups are they referring to? When will they be accepted?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u217	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members! Here I will indicate the measures that will be taken, as well as those that are somehow in progress, so that we do not overlook any of the important ones. First of all, I would mention social protection laws, such as the Social Security Benefits Act and the Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds. Both laws will be implemented in June next year and are aimed at resolving, improving the social situation of the most vulnerable groups. In particular, I would like to mention two measures: monetary social assistance, which will rise to €290 and also contains a specific activity allowance, which means raising the value of this aid; and a security allowance, that is to say, monetary social assistance is intended for anyone who temporarily, briefly, falls into an unfavourable social situation and a protective allowance, which is intended, in particular, for those who, for a long period of time, cannot sustain themselves by means of their own resources. This will amount to at least €450 for a single person with no other resources. I would like to point out that this is mainly the case for older people, those with low pensions and also with a protective allowance today do not receive so much, but much less, because the regulation is different and this will significantly improve the situation. We are preparing a new law on social protection activities, which I hope will be adopted in the spring of next year, which will improve access to services for all categories of the population, because we will go to a more efficient organisation of work of social work centres as well as home for the elderly and other institutions in this area. The Labour Market Regulation Act will enter into force with 1. 1st of next year. Here, in particular, let me mention the more favourable social situation of the unemployed, especially young people, who will be more quickly able to obtain monetary compensation, raise the value of compensation and also a slightly longer duration of receiving this compensation. Here under this law, let me mention special services for those whose employment is at risk. This will be a new service, as a preventive service for workers, employees who are expected to lose their jobs in some future period. Then there is a new law on scholarships, which will enter into force according to plans for the 2011 and 2012 school years, which introduces a comprehensive scholarship policy. Let me mention here some state scholarships, in the previous social law, where the price to obtain a scholarship is going to rise from €400 round to €610 net per family member, which means that many more individuals and from lower socio-economic categories will receive a scholarship, which will also be higher. Special supplements are here for those who are from faraway places so that they can get to a place where they will study. So this law will regulate nine different types of scholarships. Then there is a pension law, a new pension law, which will be in force as soon as it enters into force on 1 January next year. Its main objective is to stop the fall of pensions. It is intended for older persons who have plans or who will meet the conditions for retirement in the coming short term. This law should then ensure that their pensions are at an appropriate level. I would add a law on a retirement fund, which relates mainly to redundant workers, which I have already mentioned today. I wouldn't forget the long-term care bill either. This marriage is really ready. It is intended for older ones, those who will need some help. We are still looking for financial resources to bring him to life, in the beginning of 2013. In the implementation process, however, there is also a law on [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-11-15-SDZ5-Redna-22.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Jursha, pleased? Thank you. With Dr. Svetlik's reply, we have completed the question-and-answering of ministers and ministers. Since several proposals have been made to discuss the answers to the National Assembly at the next meeting, I inform you that we will decide on these proposals on Friday, 19 November, in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue on Friday in the context of the vote on the proposed conclusions. At the same time, allow me to inform you that the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities has decided that 10 minutes and not half an hour after the meeting of the assembly will begin by continuing the meeting of the Committee to discuss the law on pension insurance in the hope that the painful work will probably be completed today. Thank you all very much for your work today and great success and good luck.
