ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin by continuing the 19th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Miro Petek, Milenko Ziherl, Villa Rezman, Franz Bogovic, Happy Friend, Victory Jelinčič Tribal, Milan Gumzar, Dr Vinko Gorenak from 3 p.m. on, Mag. Franc Žnidaršič, France Tsukjat after 3 p.m., Franco Juri, Zvonko Lah, Franz Pukšič until 2 p.m. and Branko Marinič. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to four. On the day-to-day basis, this is to consider the proposal for a law amending the Law on Income, within the framework of an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word is from Dr. Franz Križanič, Minister of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! There is a new proposal for taxation of the income of natural persons ahead of you. This time it concerns the measures necessary to achieve an increase in the minimum wage to the amount of 734.15 euros gross per month. The increase in the minimum wage that you have already accepted has an impact on the increase in labour costs, and this burden cannot be fully passed on to employers in the current situation. Therefore, the Government proposes that the state also assume part of the burden arising from the increase in the minimum wage towards the tax burden on these revenues. Discharge can only be achieved by amending the Income Act by increasing additional general relief for taxpayers receiving active incomes up to a certain amount. All residents receiving active incomes are implementing a general relief set at €3,100 for 2010. In addition to the general relief, the debtors in the lower income classes may also impose additional general relief. For 2010, this means that the debtors, who will have a total income of €8,694, will continue to provide an additional general relief of €2,095. However, if they have a common income over this amount, but not more than 10,065, they impose an additional relief of €1,047. Additional general relief means additional relief, but the liable person with minimum wage and annual leave rescheduling, which does not impose other benefits, still pays a minimum income. We therefore propose to increase the additional general relief and the first threshold of income, which is set as a condition for the recognition of additional general relief. Additional general relief will be increased from the current €2,095 to €3,020 and the first income threshold from the current €8,694 to €10,200. The adjustment and appropriate transition will also increase the second income threshold, which is a condition for the recognition of additional general relief, from the current 10,056 euros to 11,800 euros. In this way, one of the commitments under the Coalition Treaty will also be partially realised, which provides that, in order to improve the income situation of the most vulnerable groups, the possibility of correcting the overall relief will be explored, by bringing the overall relief closer to the annual amount of the minimum net salary. The proposed solution will increase the cost of employers less than without a minimum wage of EUR 562 per month, assuming minimum wage at the minimum cost of living. According to the proposal, taxpayers who receive active income will be burdened, including those who receive a minimum wage or income from an annual working relationship of up to €10,200. In the case of that amount of annual income from the employment relationship, assuming that it is only pay, the available net income of these debtors will increase by EUR 483 per year. As a result of this reduced tax burden, the revenues of the state budget will be reduced by around €46 million, according to our estimate. Given that the proposal for a law amending the tax treatment of certain incomes is already being considered after the beginning of the tax year, we propose that the provisions of the law be applied to the 2010 tax rate. Dear President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! For all the reasons mentioned above, we propose that you adopt the text of the draft law in the text before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. I give the floor to a member of Bogdan Čepič for presentation of the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Dear Minister! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 14th session, 10. 2. 2010 was treated as a parent labour body by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as a proposal for a law amending the Income Act, which was submitted to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following an emergency procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 52nd session. 2. 2010 decided that the law in question should be dealt with on an urgent basis. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the text in terms of compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects and did not comment on it. No amendments were tabled on the proposal by qualified applicants. Meetings of the committee were attended by the Minister responsible for Finance with representatives from the Finance Ministry and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The additional explanation of the articles in the context of the initiation of the hearing at the meeting of the committee given by the Minister responsible for Finance derives from the amendment of the explanation of the proposal a basic objective of the text, namely a reduction in income for persons who are recipients of the minimum wage on the basis of the provisions of the new minimum wage law, by the State taking over part of the burden of raising the minimum wage. The preparation of appropriate solutions took into account the principle of general tax liability and the principle of the ability to pay the tax. The provision provided for in Article 1 which affects Article 111 of the Basic Law reduces the tax burden on the natural persons of the lowest income class for 2010. Assuming a minimum wage of EUR 562 net is provided at the minimum cost of living, the employer's costs will be lower than they would have been without introducing changes, according to the applicant. In addition, it is expected that around €46 million will reduce the burden of taxpayers reaching incomes up to that level, which means lowering the revenue of the state budget by providing compensation for excise duties on tobacco products, otherwise the proposal has no effect on other public funds or on implementation itself. According to the Government's assessment, no additional appropriations need to be provided. The Committee then voted on both articles of the legislative proposal on the basis of Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure and adopted them. As amendments have not been adopted to the draft law on the labour market, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes that the draft law amending the Income Act be adopted in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, on the second good day! The fact is that fair work requires a fair payment. And the fact is that the other, fair payment, in the past, at the time of the transition of the State, the Republic of Slovenia, since 1990 there has been no such thing as fair work and the people doing it are not to blame. That is why there are other mechanisms to help these people. We did the first one yesterday when we passed the Minimum Wage Act. With this, we have raised the wages of people to a worthy level of living. The second proposal of the law is before us today, this is the proposal for a law amending the Income Act, where it is quite clear that it is necessary because the increase in minimum wage has increased labour costs. Yesterday, we talked a lot about the high risk of a large number of unemployed people in such a case, which is why this measure is necessary. By increasing the additional general relief, the country will also assume its share of the burden, not just on employers, which is right and fair. However, for those to whom the law is intended, income will be reduced mainly in those who have a minimum or receive a minimum wage. There will be an additional general relief of 1,000 euros, the first threshold and the second income threshold will be increased. The costs of employers will thus increase less than they would without amending this law. There's a certain part of the burden going and he's going to go to the country. But here too, we know that the country finds itself, a little bit of a joke for real, but there is no criticism, and this part, which will be covered by the state, will be covered with excise duties on tobacco. And then the circle will be complete. But all that's interesting about the end is the comparison in neighbouring countries. Given that Austria is a country that is sometimes worth looking at. Austria is, for example, a country where general relief is defined as a zero-tax class. Maybe that'll work for us sometime. We will support this law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Welcome to Minister Križanič, colleague and colleague! We have before us the proposal for a law amending the Income Act and Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will unanimously support it. What's this all about? The proposed Income Act is the twin brother of the Minimum Wage Act, which we discussed yesterday. Why a twin brother? Because it is a law that reduces income for people who will receive a minimum wage, as stated in the Minimum Wages Act adopted yesterday. With today's amendment to the Income Act, we will increase the additional overall relief to more than €3,000, and the first threshold for recognition of this relief will also increase from the current €8,000 700 to €10 000 200. As a result, the second income threshold from the current EUR 10 000 55 to EUR 11 000 800 is increasing. Such a change in income law means that the state assumes its share of responsibility and, at the same time, we do not, with concrete actions, reject the claim that burdens of increasing the minimum wage are passed on to the economy alone. On the contrary. Part of the costs of this measure will be borne by the state budget for around €46 million, which means such a loss of income. However, it is important for the economy to mitigate the consequences of the minimum wage increase made possible by the Government in the Minimum Wages Act by the State. This is essential for companies which are expected to facilitate their transition to an increase in this wage and to reduce expenditure. At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, however, we would point out once again that yesterday we supported the increase in the minimum wage from the current poor €460 to €562, allowing about a person to live a decent life. This means that we are also giving full support to today’s law. Of course, we are aware, on the other hand, that the economic situation is difficult and we are also aware of the certain risks that this rise poses for the economy. However, on the basis of data on how the minimum wage growth has been lagging behind, given the average wage, today certainly is the time to set up a meaningful and, above all, concrete and living relationship. In this regard, at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we note that the proposed increase in the minimum wage should only be one of the measures that must be followed by another, especially those aimed at starting the economy and creating the new, better paid jobs that we all want in this country. Finally, before expressing our final support, we would also like to point out that the measure of raising the minimum wage is important at a symbolic level. This makes a significant difference between those who earn their wages and those who are allowed to survive by one of the social measures. We want people in this country to live on the fruits of their own work, not on social assistance. The Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the proposal of the law in a uniform manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Luka Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u10	Good-bye! Today's proposal of the Income Act, which increases the general tax relief and thus regulates the second part, the tax part, of yesterday's measure, thus raising the minimum wage, is proof that this coalition and this government are willing to take a significant part of the burden of raising minimum wages and thus ensuring a higher social standard in our country. Yesterday's rise is the longest and the bravest in a very long time. No government has so far hoped to cut down social standards, but at the same time taken over, at a time when we know that state finances are not most rosy due to the economic crisis, a large part of the burden of this rise. Nevertheless, the Social Democrats wish that we will no longer need to change in the future of the measures to raise the minimum wage. Why? Because we want the measure or the legislative provision of minimum wages no longer to be required. The vision of Social Democrats is Slovenia, in which no one will receive only minimum wages, and Slovenia, in which added value will be so high as to be based on knowledge, on innovation and on what we can be strong and competitive in the world in Slovenia, that we will all do so much that we do not have to count on the country's actions. It's a vision, of course. We know that the question is when will it actually be feasible. When a man has a vision, he knows what path he must take to reach it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u12	Dear colleagues, everyone else is present. The Income Act, which we are considering today, is binding, as has been said several times, on the adoption of a minimum wage law yesterday. Both laws were necessary, but according to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, all other laws or amendments that would be necessary if we did not want a measure that is necessary and inevitable to avoid jeopardising certain existing jobs. The law introduces additional reliefs with the aim of taxing taxpayers with minimum wages. This is one of the measures proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, together with the proposal to raise the minimum wage to EUR 600, among many measures at the beginning of the year under the so-called third package of measures under the common denominator - the fight against the crisis is the fight against new jobs. The former government has already taken the first step towards increasing the overall relief by increasing the overall relief for minimum income debtors. Before that, it was by the time the law was passed, which is up to 1. 1. 2009 gradually eliminated the tax on paid salaries and thereby substantially reduced the cost of work, which, as we know, is still among the highest in Europe. This, of course, reduces the competitiveness of our economy. It follows that the problem is not wages, the minimum of which, even after the last change, will still not reach EUR 600, not income, but burdens resulting from a lack of efficient state and too expensive bureaucratic apparatus. We support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we lack additional measures to relieve employers of wage burdens and thus prevent the loss of many jobs. If this law is not followed by additional burdens in the field of other burdens, it is estimated that some 20,000 jobs are at risk. However, it is only possible to relieve the burden by taking interlinked measures that will, on the one hand, cost the country and, on the other hand, allow the creation of new jobs. We have therefore proposed a different approach to limiting budgetary expenditure in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have proposed limiting them according to what we create, not anchoring them at a certain point or to a certain extent, which is for several reasons unproductive. Such an approach would, in our opinion, allow us to adopt additional measures, which we have already proposed on several occasions in connection with the amendment of income legislation. For example, the exemption of income payments for young researchers, the reduction of social security contributions and the limitation of the pension rate of contributions, the exemption of contributions for new workers and self-employed, so-called tax breaks for new start-ups, would all encourage the creation of new jobs. New jobs, in our view, are crucial if we are to get out of the economic crisis. We have also proposed a more active approach and a better use of resources from the European Social Fund and the European Globalisation Fund and a more efficient use of European funds in general than one of measures to increase economic activity, increase added value and create new jobs. The measure that we are considering today, of course, will not in itself significantly improve the situation of employees. Without taking other measures, it can even pose additional risks to certain jobs in the first stage, so in the Slovenian Democratic Party we understand this change as the first step towards adopting comprehensive solutions, which we expect the Government to address them within one month at the latest and to mediate them into the adoption of the National Assembly. For this reason, we support this first step on this path and will support the change of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Income Act ahead of us is a necessary consequence of the fact that we voted yesterday to raise the minimum wage to EUR 734 gross and EUR 562 net. The proposed changes ahead raise additional general relief and income thresholds. This move also places a burden on the State's shoulders and thus cancels the part of the income under the Income Act. True, employers still bear a large part of the burden of raising the minimum wage. The fact is, if we did not accept these additions to the Income Act, the workers in the pocket would not receive the promised minimum wage, but a part of it would immediately be diverted to their cash register by the State. As yesterday, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group today, we should remind ourselves again of the responsibility which, when the minimum wage is to be increased to the minimum cost of living, the current ruling authority assumes when necessary and urgently increasing the minimum wage. The raise in minimum wages will certainly also entail the demands for a rebalancing of wage relationships, which will be borne again by employers. It is essential that this measure be followed by other measures that will relieve the Slovenian economy and employers. We fear that, in the face of the current burdens of the economy and such a wasteful public administration, which we currently maintain, the Slovenian economy will not be able to hold back for long and that everyone in the ruling coalition is responsible and, indirectly, everyone in the National Assembly is responsible. We will therefore support this amendment of the law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurš.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, President. Hello, Minister! Colleagues and colleagues! The amendment of the Income Act is consequently linked to the adoption of the Minimum Wage Act. Since raising the minimum wage also means raising labour costs for employers, the State will assume part of the burden of higher labour costs on itself under this law. This will be achieved by changing the tax treatment of the minimum income in a way that raises the amount of additional general relief and the first threshold of income, which is set as a threshold for the recognition of additional general relief. As a result of adjustment and a more appropriate transition, the second income threshold, which is set as a condition for the recognition of additional general relief, will also be increased. On the basis of the new proposed amounts, calculations or estimates made by the Government have shown that the net available income of natural persons belonging to the lowest income class will increase monthly by around €40 or around €480 per year. This reduces the income burden of employees in the lowest income class and will reduce their revenue from this heading to the state budget, estimated at around €46 million. If it were to reach a raise in the current overall relief, it would be possible to prevent a pay-off that is likely to be due to an increase in wages not only to the minimum, but also to those close to them, which would result in a 10-fold increase in budget revenue. It is understandable that such a failure at this time due to economic and public-financial conditions should not be allowed. Members of the DeSUS will also support the proposed amendment of the law, which ultimately also follows the implementation of the commitments under the Coalition Treaty, in order to improve the income situation of the most vulnerable groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 7th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.30. This concludes this agenda item. Your Honor! The government has informed us that it will join us at 10.40 a.m., so I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly and will continue at 10.40 a.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u18	Dear colleagues and fellow Members. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government and ministers, Minister! We continue with the adjourned session. We're moving to 2. OF THE DAY, THIS IS ON THE DEFINITIVE SLOVENIAN EXECUTIVE STRATEGY 2010-2013. The strategy was submitted by the Government to the assembly. I give the floor to Prime Minister Borut Pahor to further explain the strategy. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u19	Thank you very much, Mr. President. High choir good day! Last night, I came from Brussels, where the EU informal council met all day to discuss Europe 2020. Let me say that this is an attempt to regenerate the so-called Lisbon Strategy, which was adopted in 2000. At that time, Europe set itself the goal of becoming the most dynamic and competitive economy in the world in 2010, this year, 10 years later. Of course, that didn't happen. Other economies in the east, the south and the United States are more competitive. We have tried to find the reasons for this failure of the European Union, find the sciences for the future and adopt the Europe 2020 plan, where we have set ourselves the tasks of how national governments and the European Commission and the world respond to the outcome of the recession, in order to bring our standards closer to those set in Lisbon in 2000. In doing so, one of the leaders of the European Union said one thing that seemed significant to me. He said he was talking to one of his leading academics about the reasons for the failure of the Lisbon Strategy. This academic told him that leaders in 2000 might have forgotten to ask people if they wanted to live in the most competitive and dynamic economy in the world. And this is the question that I am now asking you as representatives of our people. Do we want to develop a Slovenian economy, a social and social environment that will be competitive and open and will be at the top of the developed world according to its development indicators? This is a decision you will make here in the National Assembly when you discuss the exit strategy prepared by the Slovenian Government. I want to say that before you, the Slovenian government's plan, after the recession, is to consolidate public finances, ensure economic growth, boost employment and invest in green technology among the most advanced countries after sustainable development. This is a decision to be taken by the National Assembly this year and next year when it adopts the proposals for laws to be proposed by the Government to this high house. It will be up to you whether you accept ambitious plans or reject them. Why am I saying that? Because everyone's not popular, they don't like it. The goal we want to achieve leads to a very difficult path. Your decision is whether or not to step on it. My assessment after yesterday's debate on the European Council is that, while the European Union will act to some extent together in the design of measures to get out of the economic crisis, national governments will have more than ever to exercise their future in their own hands. And it's up to us how successful we are and how successful we won't be. It will depend on the political elite in Slovenia whether we take measures to ensure the goals we have set or not. The Slovenian Government is coming before you with a proposal for measures or a plan for these measures and is asking you for a position on them. Are we, as political elites of this country, responsible for the different status we have in this policy, as if I were to say, a representative to perform this important task? Today and in the coming months, perhaps two years, we decide the fate of this country for perhaps two generations. It will now be decided where Slovenia will land in 5, 10 and 15 years. I think we have all the performances to make it work. Of course, we need to know that there is an absolute need to focus on measures for an exit strategy and to put other things at the heart of our attention in Slovenian politics. Not to underestimate any of the problems, but to focus on the problems of economic stabilisation, unemployment, competitiveness, investment, innovation, etc. This is now a key political knowledge and a question that concerns all of us here as representatives of our people. We are an open small economy, we are exposed to a global situation. If we want to be competitive in this global situation, we must, I will say, take our courageous decision to take a competition with the best. If we want to be among the best, among the most developed. This National Assembly will decide, on behalf of the people it represents, whether we want the Slovenians to live well and successfully and therefore to work well and qualitatively, or whether we want to remain an average society that will slowly slip to the brink of development. Now the question is: Are we prepared to take the measures necessary to strengthen the well-being of our people in the long run? I will be followed by ministers who have prepared an exit strategy and will focus on individual projects that are prepared in this strategy. It is my job to raise our collective attention and ask this high house to focus, as far as possible this year, on the proposals that we will submit to the National Assembly in the framework of the exit strategy. These will be difficult legislative proposals. The Slovenian government is ready for all necessary coordination - both with the opposition and with the social partners, but we must also take into account the time factor here. To a certain extent, coordination is essential and necessary, after a certain period of time, it is time for Members to decide, in accordance with their conscience, whether they are correct or not. Slovenian policy has three clear objectives. Firstly, consolidate public finances and reduce budget deficits. Secondly, to boost economic growth, I think we can then join a club of countries that will have economic growth between 1 and 3% in the coming years, which ensures some sustainability of public finances while limiting public spending. Thirdly, unemployment must be continuously monitored and new jobs opened up as much as possible with new added value should be seen to see what can be done in the field of innovation and investment. These are three key things that concern our development. So: structural changes, practical measures for economic recovery and institutional changes, adjustments needed to sustain this game during this period. I'm sure we can do this. The Slovenian government is not missing anything in the preparation of this strategy. We are among those governments and countries that are at the forefront of this. Finally, before inviting the Minister of Development to say that he would explain the exit strategy in more detail, I must say clearly what the President of the European Commission said at the end of yesterday's meeting. We can have big plans, the question is whether we have political will. I have it, the government has it, and the National Assembly will have to answer this question: Do we have the political will to implement the measures we have agreed on? The Slovenian Government has prepared them, is preparing them, some will be ready. I have already said that in this regard we will try to illustrate the movements on these fronts of structural reforms, practical measures and other things with the traffic light of these measures, so that the visualisation of progress will be clear so that we can see where we are going back. Thus, implementation, implementation - this is now essential - to eliminate this deficit, not just a programme, for some plan, and then nothing from it. This year, as President of the Government, I will pay absolute attention to this programme. I believe, particularly after yesterday's world, that it is now crucial that we step, as far as possible together, in all the differences and differences in the responsibilities we have to take together, that as a political elite we take our risk of deciding on a bold agenda of changes to join the most dynamic countries in Europe that are considering a break-in from an economic competition ring that is holding us back in the Far East, the United States, Japan. By the way, Google spends more than Europe under the Seventh Development Programme for the purposes of its development potential and investment in the future. As much as we and Europeans are investing in development together. We and it is up to us to decide whether we want to end the thought I started with at the National Assembly, whether we want Slovenians in the next five and ten years, together with the leading countries of the European Union, who want to break through the economic crisis as a more competitive society, also socially connected. Here you are left and right more and more hand in hand, as far as this issue is concerned, Europe must endure social cohesion. Let's go with measures of a long-term nature that will not politically pay off in the short term, which will run into resistance, now with employers, now with unions, now with one non-governmental organisation, now with another non-governmental organisation, now with one political party, now with another. But sumarum sumarum in the package means the key that takes us long-term between the best-developed economies and societies in the world. This is possible if and how much courage we will have in implementing this programme. Only if and to the extent that we're successful does our job make sense. All the arguments about other things are of secondary importance right now. I don't want to say, please again, before I give the word forward, I don't want to say that the other issues on the agenda today are less important. We need to thematicize and solve them, but now it is a question of what the Slovenian political elite, the Slovenian political class, will pay attention to. In Europe, those moving forward will now absolutely focus their attention on the economic breakthrough. Whether we will be with them or behind them, that is the question that stands before this high house. The Slovenian government has drawn up a plan of measures for us to be with them. Or as long as we are, it's up to you. And I am prepared to discuss things that will be discussed in the National Assembly with everyone, as it were, even with the opposition, as much as it takes to get some difficult things through the National Assembly, with the social partners. We have to make it work in the end. We don't, in my opinion, have any other alternatives. I said earlier that one of our colleagues, the leaders of the European Union, was asked whether they even asked people whether they wanted to be the most dynamic and competitive in the world. I don't think the Slovenians have a choice. We're too small. If we're not the best, we'll be gone in the long run. We must, I will say, be extremely tough, extremely lively, if we are to survive now what is changing tectonically in the international community, not only in the economic sense, but also in the political sense. It is therefore an extremely sensitive time in which we live. And for things that are of dramatic importance to the fate of our people. And now it's a common price: whether we can figure it out and get out of this ring together or we can stay inside it. Every year 23 million people enter the Chinese labour market. There are so many employees in neighbouring Italy, which is one of the eight most developed economies. And now in this world we have to win me, and we have to develop an atmosphere in a society that will be the winners between us and our community, I will say, inspired forward. It's the only way we can make it. I can't hide that I'm talking under the impression of yesterday's session of the world, and I don't want to hide it either. I'm speaking under the strong impression of what I heard yesterday. It is up to us, dear colleagues and colleagues, to decide where Slovenia will be in 2020, as the new European Union document speaks. It's up to us who we want to be with and why. The government is proposing measures, explained in more detail by Mitja Gaspari.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Development and European Affairs, Mag. Mitji Gaspari to complement the explanation of the strategy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, Mr President. Given the limited time and the possibility of participating also in the discussion below, this introduction would narrow down only a few key remarks. Why the exit strategy? The exit strategy is because the whole of Europe is dealing with the question of how to stop the measures the European Union and individual countries wanted to stop the negative impact of the global financial and economic crisis on European economies. Most experts and European economies have estimated that the crisis is slowing down, although it is not yet resolved. As a result, consideration is given to how the measures needed so far to revive the economy by classical fiscal measures, how these measures can be replaced in the future by a combination of actions that will, on the one hand, allow and ensure financial stability and fiscal sustainability and, on the other hand, promote economic potentials for growth. But not only for growth, but for growth, which will also be sustainable for a longer period. This is why we are talking about the so-called exit strategy in a narrower sense. This is the part where measures that have been taken in the past two years or less in all European Union countries are to be phased out. In doing so, it is a basic recommendation that countries act individually, given the situation in which each of them is individual. So it's not a general rule and it's a general time limit or a goal at which it's supposed to happen. At the same time, everyone points out that the removal of measures taken temporarily to ensure adequate demand and consumption and reduce the impact of the crisis on unemployment, without other measures, of course, is a short-term measure and will result in a return of the economy to recessional waters. It is therefore also an element of the exit strategy called a broader exit strategy, linking short-term economic measures with those structural changes and institutional adjustments where necessary, which, in addition to the short-term recovery of economic activity, also allow for its sustainable long-term continuation. This is the basic recommendation of all international organisations dealing with crisis problems as well as, as has been heard and seen yesterday, the European Union summit. What's important to Slovenia here? Given that we are a small and open economy, it is important to ensure, on the one hand, adequate fiscal stability, without which there will also be no recovery of economic activity, greater employment and social cohesion. So the main objectives that Slovenia is expected to endorse in one way or another are: to promote economic activity and to ensure the gradual elimination of macroeconomic imbalances that are present in other European Union economies as well as this moment in Slovenia. Taking into account the social and environmental aspects, which are also becoming important economically not only politically and socially, development should allow for a gradual increase in potential economic growth on a sustainable basis. These are basic objectives not only for Slovenia but for everyone in Europe. It also sets them in a certain way through the so-called European 2020 Strategy Paper, which is intended to basically define the objectives and priorities that the European Union will seek to promote over the next 10 years. The priorities of the Slovenian exit strategy should be designed as a combination of economic policy measures and structural changes, which, while ensuring fiscal sustainability, improve the social position of the weakest and enhance the competitiveness of the economy and the creation of new jobs. Such a general definition, which is difficult to contradict, is essential how we equip it with individual measures or actions. What is most important at this time, according to the Government and this material, is that the measures are properly time-bound, substantively and structurally allocated. What must be a priority and first in such a strategy is the consolidation of public finances. The one who monitors international press and events in the European Union more widely notes that this is becoming a specific differentiation between countries. The countries currently in a better fiscal situation will be more likely to emerge from this crisis, countries that have been operating in the past so that they are now in a worse situation will come out of this crisis more slowly with significantly more restrictions and less opportunities for adequate longer-term growth and development. Therefore, the first priority in our concept, although we are not among the countries with a very poor fiscal position, is comparatively, and this moment is essential, because this means the information that is accompanied by international investors and those who want to invest in public debt. If you look at data across Europe, you see that countries are already starting to differ considerably and that certain countries are already placed in a category of very risky countries, for which it means obtaining funding to finance public deficits or very high prices or other serious difficulties to obtain these funds on the market. I wouldn't want to name any of these countries, even though they did, they got caught up in having "pix" in English. Therefore, in our strategy, reducing public spending is a primary task before reducing tax obligations. Why? For a simple reason, because it is impossible to ensure fiscal stability by reducing tax liabilities or by means of tax relief for a short period of time, without adapting the structure of public finances and the scope of public financial expenditure. Otherwise, we end up in a favourable tax area with a deterioration in the public financial situation, which has proved to be the case in many countries over the last 15 years. This is what European countries' experiences have been saying, which have been going through fiscal consolidation in the 1980s and 1990s, which we can give some more details about in the discussion below. That is why our rule, first of all, is to reduce and adjust public spending. With the successful process of shrinking and restructuring of public financial expenditure, it is possible, of course, to continue with additional tax burdens, and we believe that the problem which is the biggest problem in the Slovenian economy is the basic and main one in such a situation. This is the burden of social contributions, which increases labour costs in most businesses and economies. Once space is created through fiscal consolidation, a possible step with tax reliefs or a reduction of this burden, which is structurally the most pronounced in the Slovenian economy. In order to allow this reduction of public expenditure to be counter-optimal and at the same time verifiable, the Government proposes in its documents and is already implementing a so-called public financial or fiscal rule, which lays down by 2013 unchanged public financial expenditure at the level of the State. It is likely that the local communities, which have contributed a relatively large amount of government deficit over the past two years, will also have to behave. On the basis of such a rule, the second important element is the identification of public priorities in the structure of public financial expenditure, which will promote, as a primary priority, expenditure that ensures the creation of new jobs and knowledge through the promotion and creation of innovative enterprises, increased employability, activity and competence of individuals and development, transport and energy projects. Given that the fiscal rule is fixed, nominal, it means that expenditure that will have positive growth on priority projects will require other expenditure that is not in priority policies to be nominally reduced. This is a change in the logic of thinking in Slovenian public finances, which have never before been faced with the limitation on nominal expenditure growth. In order to achieve the deconsolidation as a priority objective and the capacity of the state and other budgets to promote the priorities that will or have already been clearly defined both in the budget and in the national development programme that we are preparing for April, the effective functioning of the funding institutions, which is one of the most serious problems at this time, will be to enable this developmental shift to take place. With us both the financial sector, banks and insurance companies operate relatively sub-optimal and the problem is how to revive their activities, a serious structural problem not only in Slovenia, but also wider. Secondly, that the developing financial institutions, which we have many in Slovenia so far have not been seriously connected in, if you want, a development cluster in which the SID Bank could play the most important coordinating and distributive role. In addition, it is obvious and this has proved, unfortunately, that yesterday there was no way to participate in the discussion on adjustment in cohesion policy, we will probably have more time today. All European countries facing the crisis have found that most of the policies that have been set up in relation to cohesion funds have been policies that have been made during the pre-crisis period and that many smart European economies and countries have gone to the adjustment of cohesion policy in order to promote these basic priorities, which are also present in their documents or practices. We are also doing the same with relatively small proposals for adaptation within operational programmes, but with those that are expected to increase the competitiveness, development of human resources and better distribution of resources within operational programmes that talk about infrastructure projects and programmes. Thirdly, increasing competitiveness by reducing the pressure of social contributions on labour costs, as I mentioned. This occurs in addition to the consolidation of public finances as an extremely important task if we want to maintain this competitive capacity of the Slovenian economy over a longer period of time if we want to make better use of the means and management at the level of entrepreneurship and management. Fourthly, the implementation of the concept of safe flexibility, where it is particularly important to regulate certain areas that do not work well in this segment in Slovenia, in particular the area of the so-called small work system, where certain services are at present in the sphere of the grey economy and the regulation of working relationships, which will follow the principle of job security rather than the job principle. Of course, there is no flexibility and there are large distortions between individual forms of employment and individual categories of employees. Finally, improvements in social cohesion instruments requiring adjustments to the social security system, pension and health insurance and public rights. These are the main points that we believe must be taken into account and the order of measures to be taken in order to achieve first the fiscal stabilisation that will enable Slovenia to operate normally in the international financial area and, on the other hand, to identify those priorities that will actually guarantee the objectives that I have mentioned. If you wish to do so, we will submit to you a proposal of 25 marriage projects, which must be adopted this year and which are linked to the implementation of this so-called exit strategy. Most of these documents are already contained in the Government's normative work programme. However, some other documents were produced in the preparation of the strategy and will be widely described by individual ministers as part of the interpretation of their programmes and projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The strategy was viewed by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Anton Kolaric, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u23	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President of the National Assembly, Mr President of the Government, ministers, ministers and other representatives and representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. On 10.2.2010, the Committee on the Economy considered the Slovenian exit strategy 2010-2013, which was sent to the National Assembly for information by the Government. Representatives and representatives of the Government, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Employers of Slovenia attended the meetings of the Committee. The Committee was also presented with a proposal for the conclusions of Ambassador Juliana Bizjak Mlakar and the representatives of mags. Franca Žnidaršič and Andrej Magajna, proposed by the Committee to the National Assembly for adoption at the hearing of the Slovenian exit strategy. The meeting was held by introducing the Government's representatives to the exit strategy, with Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Minister of Economy, presenting the document in the introduction and presenting more important economic measures. They followed a rather detailed presentation of the measures by other representatives of the Government, Dr. Ivan Svetlik, Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Dr. Henrik Gjerkš and Mrs. Irma Pavlinič Krebs. The opening part of the meeting was followed by a relatively large debate, in which members of the Committee, as well as other discussers, supported the exit strategy mainly. They pointed out that it was a document that Slovenia urgently needed at the moment because it included a number of good and urgent measures for the early exit from the crisis. It is essential that all key actors reach consensus within it and implement it with common powers immediately. However, some discussers have pointed out the individual weaknesses of the strategy, which need to be carefully examined and adjusted as necessary, as it is a living document that the Government can simultaneously correct or supplement and adapt to the current situation. However, there will certainly be a thorough and extensive debate in the National Assembly on individual key proposals for action later, when the Government will draw up the necessary legislative proposals on the basis of the guidelines set out in the strategy. It will also be an opportunity for some key measures to be further explored and, if necessary, added or amended accordingly. The strategy was also supported in principle by representatives of opposition parliamentary groups and highlighted solutions that they considered either weak, incomplete or not included in the strategy at all. The representative of the SLS therefore stressed, inter alia, that they were held back to the projected sale of the country's capital shares in individual companies during the crisis and to the expected changes in the operational programmes. The representative of the SDS Group stressed in particular that this is a document which is not structured enough and will therefore be difficult to manage and monitor. For there is a time limit or a clear definition of who and, in particular, within what time frame, will carry out individual actions. In the last part of the discussion, representatives and representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Association of Employers of Slovenia also presented their views on the exit strategy. They also drew attention to some other measures to be included in the strategy that they had long been alerting to. However, a lot of attention has also been given to the proposal for a minimum wage law, which we confirmed yesterday. Representatives and government representatives also answered questions and explained certain matters. Finally, the Committee also moved to a decision on the proposals for decisions by Members Bizjak-Mlakar, Žnidaršič and Magajne, which were recast in the proposal for recommendations, but the Committee did not adopt these proposals, since most members felt that it was a matter of considering the strategy for, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] a government document which the National Assembly is only familiar with. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u25	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honourable President of the Government, ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In opening, let us say that at the LDS Club we welcome the expected exit strategy. As can be seen from the document itself, its quality is reflected, among other things, in-depth preparation and difficult coordination. At the outset, we would like to point out that the outcome of the strategy is what we have expected in some way, a set of selectively selected and interrelated and coordinated measures that represent a coherent whole. Above all, in view of the familiar floods of strategies, development resolutions, development programmes and plans, similar to the exit strategy, there is a desire and hope that as much as possible will be achieved and implemented in practice, but we also expect it to be open to additional good proposals and complement them. And if we focus on the very content of the exit strategy. In our view, the exit strategy is primarily a macro framework for the government's action towards a way out of the crisis, as well as a paucity of action. On the one hand, there are general directions, where we as a society want to go and what we can do about it. On the other hand, the strategy also includes concrete measures on how to achieve these objectives. It is important to mention the priorities of the strategy, which aim at broad, long-term, sustainable economic growth, at three development priorities: entrepreneurship and knowledge for development, security of social cohesion and transport and energy infrastructure. Given the priority content resulting from the exit strategy, the choice is, in our view, appropriate, and can also be successful with the effective implementation of the programmes. These three priorities are trapped in the four basic guidelines or guidelines that the strategy envisages. This is fiscal stability or consolidation of public finances, the competitiveness of the economy, social cohesion and, last but not least, the increasingly important environmental efficiency and cohesion to guide structural changes in the economy towards new, environmentally sound and energy-efficient technologies. The path leading to these objectives and compliance with the guidelines is covered by three related sets of measures. These are structural nature, institutional nature and economic policy measures. Consolidation of public finances, of course, will not be possible without saving, assuming that we do not increase tax burdens. According to our assessment, it is a significant and important achievement that the Government has not reached out to the measures of increasing or additional tax burden measures. In fact, the thorny path will be to ensure the same level of public services, but at the same time, the recent burden will significantly reduce the budget deficit. Any savings that do not include adequate optimization are undeniably affected by the Social Cohesion Guidelines, which Slovenia does not renounce, and we consider this to be good in the LDS Club. In our parliamentary club on economic policy measures, we particularly want to highlight financing for development measures, because we think it is necessary to coordinate financial instruments and to adapt guarantee schemes that have often proved to be too diversified, too bureaucraticly complicated, and not sufficiently targeted. All these shortcomings have proved to be ineffective in the final instance, but not in the intensity and effectiveness of the use of these funds, but in achieving the objectives and actions of tangible results. We also consider it important to take measures in the field of safe flexibility, where we welcome the highlighted importance of quality education in particular for more demanding and better paid jobs, as well as measures in the field of faster entry of graduates into the labour market, as we are witnessing an increasing circulation in the current system. These circuits, however, affect the very interests of those young people who should enter the labour market as soon as possible with fresh ideas. On the other hand, a strengthened student system, which is also part of this exit strategy, needs to be taken care of for unladen study. The implementation of structural measures will be extensive and difficult. This is particularly noted in the LDS. But these changes need to be addressed, and here are the only social partners. This is how we will be faced with the renewal of the pension system and the necessary changes in health care, health insurance and healthcare activities and the renewal of the long-term care system. At the LDS, we support these structural measures, which must, in particular, be well thought out and must be consistent with the main objective of the exit strategy, so that these systems are also sustainable in the long term. The last large set of measures is so-called institutional changes. In particular, the Capital Investment Management Agency is to be highlighted here, where the LDS Club hopes to finally implement effective, responsible and transparent corporate governance. The responsibility of the management and the supervisory councils must also be highlighted here. There have been too many mistrials and questionable processes, such as ownership, but not responsible management. Always, in particular, in times of crisis and confusion, the main task of the management should be to take care of development, invest in knowledge, technological breakthroughs and create quality jobs. This is particularly true for publicly owned companies. There is even greater responsibility, even more important. In this set of institutional measures, we must also welcome the clear direction of this government towards the development of rail infrastructure, which has been seriously neglected in the past, resulting in both negative consequences for the economy and for public passenger transport. If we sum up the exit strategy, it's built on three, Slovenia's main pillars. These are the impetus of the economy, the modern labour market and the preservation of the social state. In these times of crisis, we have witnessed calls for swift action. We also join the LDS in the view that sometimes it might be possible to act faster, but the topic is generally not so simple as to go hand-to-hand. It is fundamental issues of the development of society, the development of our country. And in these cases, instant solutions are usually not good here. The simple concept of deep tax burdens is also not necessarily a recipe for a solution, especially in the situation we are in. Short-term tax relief may, in the medium term, constitute a strong public financial destabilisation that can end in a long-term developmental spasm. In this respect, the Government’s attitude towards debt is also important. It follows from the exit strategy that by reducing the budget deficit, we will stabilise public debt and thus ensure that the most important thing is that our accounts will not be paid by future generations. One of our fundamental responsibilities is not to waste on the expense of future generations. At the same time, we also point out a thorough reflection on all steps in the possible sale of the country's capital shares in individual companies. In the exit strategy, we are particularly aware of the added value in that, in addition to the general framework, it is also a concrete action, following the ministries in question. Many times there has been a clear statement here that the government has no answer. Our concern as the legislative branches of the authorities is to keep a close eye on the implementation of these measures. To conclude, the exit strategy and the proposed measures presented are a good basis for our follow-up. We support the Slovenian exit strategy at the LDS. We see it as a set of thoughtful and interlinked and coordinated measures that will not only be written down, but a strategy will be implemented in the relevant legislative proposals and bold measures to implement the exit strategy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u27	Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Slovenia stands on the path of recovery. The global economic and financial crisis has severely affected us, especially the most vulnerable and weak among us. Today we know that the nature of the crisis in Slovenia was so strong also because in the past the time for restructuring the Slovenian economy into a more competitive and sustainable economy, together with urgent adjustments in the pension and health system, in the public sector, public finances. The economic and financial crisis is not the cause of all our problems, but has only accelerated the disclosure of all the structural problems of Slovenian society. It's not our alibi, it's not an apology. This is understood as a teaching that changes are needed in Slovenia. We are determined to enforce these changes. We are aware that some of these will also be painful and unpopular. As a responsible authority, we want them to be realized in order to improve the condition of Slovenia and the potential of its people. The challenges we face are great, and our determination to catch them for the good of all is great. We stress that, as the Slovenian Eastern Strategy Group, we support the Slovenian exit strategy, with our proposals, which will also be presented by colleagues and colleagues, and we want to further strengthen its value, efficiency and ability to overcome the economic crisis with its help from Slovenia. We therefore agree that the exit strategy must remain an open process, which we will be able to complement with good ideas that can make Slovenia better when individual measures are implemented. Some believe that we are only interested in resolving public finances in this exit strategy. On the contrary, stable public finances are understood as basic infrastructure, "contitio sine qua nom", for the functioning of the country, the economy and the whole community. The experience of some countries, such as Greece, clearly shows that we must do everything possible to remedy the public financial situation. We therefore advocate the introduction of a fiscal rule to prevent the future increase in the country's expenditure, while at the same time determining the direction and structure of public consumption with a focus on increasing competitiveness, knowledge, technological breakthroughs and social cohesion. This is our responsibility to the money that citizens and citizens give up for the common good of the entire community. It is our responsibility to give them, in return for their money, a real value in a developmental, stimulating and regulated community of quality public services. The stability of public finances must therefore also be seen in this House as our necessary and common objective, without which we are fundamentally threatening opportunities for recovery and progress. We therefore advocate reducing costs in public administration by reducing the number of employees, optimising public administration processes and rationalising and simplifying procedures. We welcome the new approach of development planning and work planned to improve the public sector's ability to achieve its objectives. Nothing helps us, nor good legislation, nor good strategy, unless one thing or the other is being realized. In these measures, which we have already begun with the programme budget, we see a great opportunity for this country to become smart, focused on its objectives and capable of achieving these objectives. Therefore, it is high time that we optimize the processes in public administration so that the objectives that we set together are also achieved. A strong and dynamic public sector is particularly important in the crisis, as major and urgent changes can only be achieved as a community. Only as a community can we achieve major developmental shifts. This may also be the basis of the distinction between us and the opposition, which seems to be the only objective devoted to the recovery from the crisis to tax relief. Since we do not want to inadvertently reduce the level of rights on which our social contract stands, and because we are convinced that we must make Slovenia for a strong, developmental and equal opportunity to realize all the potentials of a focused country, we are extremely reserved to such ambitions, but at the same time we cannot overlook the fact that, in a wiser economy in the past, in good times, today, we would also have more room for manoeuvre for such ideas. We will help the economy, with substantial strengthening of competitiveness and technological development funds, by improving financial assistance instruments and by establishing a common platform to obtain development assistance for businesses. By improving the coordination and integration of institutions, we will maximize the financial potential and increase synergies between the various financial instruments for effective economic restructuring. We support the simplification of the guarantee scheme, the facilitation of the possibility of access to the financing of operating assets and individual guarantees, with increased personal guarantees from owners and managers. We are also pursuing these objectives through amendments to the operational programmes to focus the European Union's available resources on promoting economic growth, technological restructuring, the creation of new jobs with a focus on feasibility and the greatest development impact of European funds on the community as a whole. Therefore, we also welcome adjustments to the user-measured drawing system, not to the extent of administration. As an extremely important part of the exit strategy, we also understand the establishment of instruments to help businesses at all stages of development, from seed finance to start-up funds and finance the development of businesses. Therefore, our government's strategy is clear: to increase the competitiveness of the economy, its technological restructuring and to increase the added value, and this must remain not only a password, but a part of effective implementation in political everyday life. Also environmental, energy reconstruction of Slovenia and active assistance to the population in order to make our people live a better life, to relax their creativity and give Slovenia a new developmental flight. A set of measures in the field of social security and employment is of paramount importance. Even though we see the cap for social contributions as a measure to improve the competitiveness of the economy by reducing the cost of work of highly skilled workers on which our hope for a breakthrough is based, while at the same time equating the whole mix of different treatments in the labour market, this measure will be somewhat delayed, particularly carefully monitored in the stage of drafting legislative solutions to clear up some legitimate dilemmas and concerns. As one key measure, we consider the establishment of a single entry point for social transfers by means of a law on the exercise of rights from public funds. With greater transparency of the system, we also look forward to a difficult mental change from this measure. We are advocates of the social state, which must help people in distress, but harsh criticism of the abuse of these aids, their accumulation and thus closely linked work to the black. The work is our value, which we intend to restore to him the reputation and importance that each of us has for the full life of each of us. We see Slovenia as a land of good, smart and creative people. The current system of social assistance and a weakly functioning labour market should therefore be able to make work for such a vision of our joint co-existence. That is why we have also supported the increase in the minimum wage in the past days, and today also raising general income relief as a bold measure on this path. Unemployment is understood as problem number one. We are forecasting a sharp fight, so we must approach labour market reform and, by means of the Labour Relations Act, facilitate employment and extend compensation to previously neglected groups of unemployed, young people first, and reform the Employment Market Regulation Act and create a functioning section between supply and demand for work. In the past period, the irrationally neglected active employment policy needs to be strengthened to increase the employment skills and opportunities of our people. The Small Work Act should end the unequal treatment of different forms of work, give people more security while opening up opportunities for work to other specific groups. Contrary to this ambition, students with a legitimate demand that study opportunities should not deteriorate. On the contrary! Students should be given the opportunity to ensure that the success of their studies depends not on the work they are doing but on the effective instruments of scholarship policy to ensure equal access to knowledge. That is why we attach the need for more scholarships to the Social Democrats, and in the small part dilemmas we demand a strengthened social dialogue that should lead to a smart solution, labour market regulation, strengthening opportunities for study, and not least improving the results of our higher education process. This is, if we are serious about our aspirations for development restructuring, one of the key priorities. The National Assembly has already taken the first step towards a new corporate governance policy. We are very much betting on this process because we want the policy and the stakeholders to finally withdraw from the governance of state-owned enterprises and to exercise consistent responsibility for good corporate governance, and the country as owner by adopting a governance strategy in the National Assembly defines and considers what it expects of these companies. With new corporate governance, we want to prove that the country can be a good owner of companies that will be effectively managed, pursuing its strategic objectives, which will be developmentally stimulating and accountable to employees, communities and the environment. That is also why we are held back until we have announced the sale of state-owned enterprises. In the debate on this, we will pay attention to the question which of these companies form the development backbone of the Slovenian economy and what are the risks of possible sales to a wider economic and social environment. In doing so, we point out that the crisis is not the time to achieve an optimum purchase and that privatisation must be selective and well thought out; privatisation must not be a sale of state property at discount prices. This year, by adopting a law on climate change and a comprehensive climate strategy, we will define our path to a low carbon society. To reduce emissions in all sectors, from energy and transport to agriculture, construction and waste. Even though concrete solutions to Slovenia's transition to a low carbon society in the exit strategy are only indicated, it is important that this ambition is part of our facing the crisis, as similar changes and adaptation to them are seen as a key part of economic restructuring and a huge opportunity for our economy. Respected and respected! Our biggest opponent is the social climate that destroyed the happy and optimistic Slovenian character. Today, more than ever before, it is important to give the overall negative energy present a different charge so that the challenges they face bring Slovenia back together. To release creativity to give the flight of Slovenian intelligence, to untie the good hands of Slovenian workers, to set new goals as a country and as a people. That we can succeed, that we can be excellent, that we can win and that we can start dreaming again of Slovenia as it could be and must be, because we owe it to our people and their future. For this long winter comes spring.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Janez Janša. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u29	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The exit strategy, as this document is referred to today, is just another in the series of declaration documents that we have monitored or dealt with a lot last year. Thus, last April's government sent a paper to Parliament entitled Required structural reform, which contained about a third of what is being said in today's exit strategy, already contained. At that time, we heard from the President's spokeswoman and other representatives of the government who promised what they had presented in April will be realized by the end of last year. It didn't come true. Instead, we have received, I think, two conferences of so-called development dialogue, where we have heard again many words of cursing about how to get between the winners. But some week later, no one, not even the participants in this conference of development dialogue themselves, remembered what was actually being said there. Due to such a forgetfulness, we were then able to experience a surprise when the government presented a similar document as in April, only under the second title, which called it the Long-term Structural Adjustment Programme, where promises were repeated from April, but there were not many of these promises. At the end of last year, we got a dedicated then even a document that was supposed to have even more strategic ambitions, titled Kam Post-crisis. It has been said that Slovenia is already turning to a time when the crisis will be no more and when we will be able to compete again for the city between the best in Europe and the world. If I ask you today whether you remember one particular thing from this so-called strategic document, you will probably disappoint me. After a week, even though the daily newspapers have published whole pages, these declarations, or whatever, can be called where everything was mixed, many good ideas, as well as many totally utopian ones. In short, after one week, we all forgot about it, including the subscribers and the authors. Now we have a fourth document ahead of us in a bad year of the same species called the Output Strategy. The results of three debates so far on three strategic documents, without any special event, are mainly negative added value to the negative consequences or to deepening the negative consequences of the economic crisis. Thus, unemployment increased by 60% during this period. Slovenia fell most in 2009 when it comes to economic growth or GDP throughout the euro area. In a single year, the pace of catching up to the European Union's development has been eradicated, and today, according to some 2004 indicators, some are significantly lower. If we were somewhere between the average and the summit of the European Union at the end of 2008, we are today somewhere between the beginning and the average, which is a major negative strategic shift in our position. Last year, the government increased its net state debt by 50%, from 22% of the share of public debt in gross domestic product at the end of 2008 in the document we have before us to 40% this year. It is said that, according to government forecasts in this exit strategy, we will reach two-thirds of the manoeuvre space we have under the European regulation or the Stability and Growth Pact this year. The latter is particularly painful because we are primarily responsible for spending, not always justified, but not for investment. The document you have before you says that we will pay more than half a billion euros for interest this year, more than 500 million euros next year, about 600 million dollars for interest alone, to increase the net indebtedness of the country. At the same time, in government ranks and in the public for a few months, we are discussing, or discussing, how to take 0.80 euros for students at a hot meal. If you take the whole meal, it's a few 10 million euros, and we're only going to put half a billion here for interest, and there's no discussion about it! If we sum up the net effect of all at least some concrete austerity measures in this so-called exit strategy, this net effect of the sums is lower than what we will pay for interest or, more specifically, what we will pay for the part of the debt that has increased only in this last good year. For all these reasons, we are now in a situation where some very decisive moves should actually be made, when there should also be some strong leadership and also a great support for this leadership. Unfortunately, because of the situation mentioned above, when two thirds of Slovenian citizens see the current government as part of the problem and not as part of the solution, which is also the smart things proposed in this exit strategy, they ask, because if you don't trust anyone in general, then you will find it very difficult to believe things that may be meaningful and that is some strategic psychological problem that cannot be solved by saying that more positive energy is needed and will be fine. If we are now speaking concretely about the proposals in this exit strategy and compare this document with the document you have recently dealt with and submitted by the Slovenian Democratic Party, which has been called the Fight against the Crisis, the fight for new jobs, the third package of anti-crisis measures, we see that both documents are partly compatible at four points in their objectives. These points are: reduction of public consumption in gross domestic product, secondly, resolution of so-called bad loans, thirdly, reduction of administrative employment or savings in administrative labour costs and fourthly, reconsolidation of public finances. Unfortunately, only principles and nice desires can be much compared here, and less concrete measures, because the key disadvantage with some honorable exceptions in this whole paper document is that there is no clear timeline, a lot of measures have not been worked out at all. For many, it is a mix of short- and long-term measures, some of which is also a fundamental contradiction between what this exit strategy is supposed to be because it writes, the exit strategy 2010-2013, it is said that somehow everything together with the general framework is limited to three years. In one of the three proposed reforms, in the area of pension reform, we are speaking and dividing the second phase in this document, which is expected to have effects only in 2015. There is, therefore, a great contrast between some general framework and many, including very important forecasts in the document itself. There is also some incomprehensibility, or illogicalness, which I cannot explain and which was not withdrawn even after we -- not only us, but also others who have read the document -- publicly and clearly warned. This review of anti-crisis measures or of the exit strategy, which is based on individual resources, has sometimes written down all the things individual ministries do. Thus, among the measures that will bring us out of the crisis, we can find the establishment of a film office, a change in the law on private protection, the establishment of a national investigative office. This last one is particularly interesting, because only for the building of this new institution will Slovenian taxpayers give more than a million 600 000 euros net, while this same ministry has a building that is state-owned anyway and is paid by the country where it can be purchased with the same price for a square meter building and here it will only be rented. If such a waste of money is part of the exit strategy through the window, then we can only ask ourselves where this strategy leads. If I have previously listed four points where we can find some principled correlation between the measures proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party and the measures proposed in this document, it should also be noted that there is a fundamental difference which the Government does not actually hide and which Minister Gaspari has made clear in his public appearances, not least at the press conference when this document was presented. The fundamental difference between the two approaches is that the Government is building, if we are talking about concrete proposals now, on saving, which is good, and on some long-term measures, which in fact will not be of great importance for the outcome of the crisis, because the effects should only come after the forecasts of the same document have already come out of the crisis. In our package of measures to combat the crisis, the fight for jobs has also proposed, in addition to saving, the emphasis on growth and employment. In his introduction, the President of the Government spoke about what happened yesterday at the European Council meeting in Brussels and the Lisbon Strategy, which is a fundamental development document of the European Union and which is expected to receive its upgrade for the next decade. In this context, let me remind you that since 2005, the Lisbon Strategy has no longer set the goal of Europe becoming the most competitive economy in the world, since the Lisbon Strategy was renewed in 2005, and this, say, is no longer a utopian objective in the strategy. That's when the strategy got the title of growth and jobs. Growth and jobs. The European Development Strategy focuses precisely on the point at which we have also stressed in our third package of anti-crisis measures. Growth and jobs are also a central point in the proposals for a new European Union development strategy for the coming decade. It would take too long to repeat the debate that led to this change in 2005 during the Slovenian Presidency or the leadership of the European Union. In March 2008, we assessed the impact of this renewed Lisbon Strategy and that assessment was positive for this change. And at this point, the dilemma has also come to light whether people in Europe support such a development strategy. Public opinion research, which was carried out at the time, has also shown that this is actually some far-reaching European wish. It is said that economic growth would not only be an end to itself, but to generate new jobs, because this together is actually the only real basis for prosperity. Personal well-being, as well as general well-being and, last but not least, the well-being of public finances. All modern European countries are largely based on solidarity systems, which in their own words means that people who are employed or who have such or other incomes, through different levels of contributions and excise duties, contribute to public finances on the basis of which, if these public finances are sound then the social state or the elements of the social state that actually exist everywhere in Europe, care for the necessary solidarity and as much as fair division. However, because public finances are not healthy, governments are in debt and this is the story of the development of Slovenia or the lack of development of Slovenia in the last year. I would recommend to the representatives of the Government who are going to the meetings in Brussels to examine in a little more detail the documents that speak of what is the essence that can help Europe, and thus all its parts with Slovenia, to develop normally in the future. As we have repeatedly warned in all these government documents, including this so-called exit strategy, a dynamic approach is lacking. I will briefly repeat once again what is crucial, which is what we miss in this document. However you take such and other measures through the consolidation of public finances, these public finances will not be consolidated without increasing growth, on this basis employment and more those who will contribute to the various public treasury. There is no other magic formula for consolidating public finances, unless oil is detected, or any other natural resources, which would be some extra revenue. Because this does not promise, this consolidation depends on us, on this. how many new jobs will be created, how many added value will be on existing ones in the future and what will be the macroeconomic picture of trends in unemployment. If this year's "optimistic announcement" by the Prime Minister of the Government that unemployment will only increase by the next 25% or the next 25,000, this will be a death blow for these well-intentioned and also commendable wishes after the consolidation of public finances in Slovenia, as 25,000 first have to be multiplied by two, and then by two more, to obtain a dynamic calculation of all the negative effects of increased unemployment on Slovenian public finances, on pension and health bills and, of course, on the budget that covers these differences, where these rights are guaranteed. Instead of focusing together now on the key point that Slovenia can actually take out of the crisis, this is to create new jobs, to discuss all that is necessary and unnecessary, including things that at this moment do not constitute any urgent need - for example, an increase in working time. This is a measure that Slovenia should take in the future. Life expectancy is increasing, the impact of civilisation gains on the labour situation itself is increasing, on people's ability to do their jobs and so on and so on, and gradually, together with negative trends in demographic policy, of course, creating a situation where this measure will be necessary, but I will not know how painful it will be. But you are discussing that this needs to be done immediately, and in my opinion it is just some distorted view of the situation, because work is not enough for those who work, unemployment is increasing. I can't imagine a reasonable manager in a factory where orders have been cut, deciding that now the workers will be working for nine hours instead of eight hours. What's that? Here we come across a contradiction between some of the girl's definitions and something that will n, and which would also have immediate effects. I don't know; unless it's some kind of strategy to propose something, it encourages unions, and then it's done without any immediate damage to get other things done. This might still be acceptable, although this has medium-term negative effects, because once it is actually necessary to do so, they will be bound by some old promises, the promises of the government. One of the differences between what we have proposed in our package and what the Government is proposing now is the consolidation of the commercial financial sector or banks. In our package, we have proposed the establishment of a bad bank, which would increase transparency on the one hand, increase accountability, and that is why some oppose it and, on the other hand, would allow existing banks, which are now obviously a major part of the problem called credit crunch and liquidity, to start functioning normally. The government in its work says that there is no need to set up a bad bank, but that everything needs to be prepared if this need arises. This formulation is a little weird. I don't know why it's written this way, it's kind of unusual. It is, however, a fact that after yesterday's information that the biggest Slovenian and also the largest state bank, Nova Ljubljanska Banka, is losing, it is likely that the need to discuss whether or not we need a bad bank is falling away because we have it. Unfortunately, the bad bank is obviously the largest state bank. And I'm very afraid that the information that was reported yesterday is not all the truth. Why? Yesterday, it was said that the key cause of this loss is EUR 100 million - the New Ljubljana Bank in difficulty or in the actual criminal activity of the Frankfurt branch, LHB Frankfurt. And then shyly mentioned were loans that were made without proper coverage for certain acquisitions or intended acquisitions. And amazingly, as we read today's list of these bad loan tenants, there is no mention of lending taking over the biggest Slovenian construction company, says SCT, which was largely funded through the LHB Frankfurt office in Ljubljana. A few ten metres away from the National Assembly is said to be an office, at least the address was published, from which was financed by the manager's acquisition of the largest Slovenian builder. This should also make constructionists the main problem for the poor investments of the bad bank or the New Ljubljana Bank. Well, it is interesting that irregularities in this particular case were detected years ago. An investigation was launched, which also confirmed suspicions. But, interestingly, since the end of 2008, nothing has happened here, this investigation stands. And here I claim with all responsibility that Mr Pahor's administration is obstructing this investigation in a deliberate manner. Not only does he plan to block it, but the Home Secretary's officials have been investigating those who have been investigating it in recent months. I already said that about this pay phone once, and nothing happened. The investigation of those who carried out the investigation takes place in a strange way, without any formal invitations. The tax inspectors were interrogated, who carried out a tax check, when they were even sent there. And finally, he got an invitation, not to a formal hearing with an invitation, but on the phone from some of the criminals, including the former Minister of Finance. And the former Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance was also questioned. However, the question was whether he had a political impact on the fact that this investigation was carried out in the SCT. At the same time, ministers of this government, including some who are sitting behind me, are attending various meetings with the lobby which manages the construction lobby in Slovenia and which has its roots in the situation and in the services that we will discuss on a constitutional charge that will take place next month. So the administration that is in power today is blocking the investigation into the management acquisition of the largest construction company in Slovenia, investigating those who carried out the investigation, while at the same time ignoring the fact that the bank that financed it is somewhere in losses. He'll be in even greater losses if the ones they've caused are protected. And since we are already at this point, this bank, which reported losses yesterday also due to business in the past, not only last year, certainly; also this matter, which I spoke about earlier, has been happening in previous years, but mainly under the leadership of the former Prime Minister, Mr Kramar, who has also received the millionth prize for all of this. And since it is an opportunity, I ask the public president of the government, who told Mr Kramar that he should think carefully about returning that million and thinking quickly if after one year he has thought about it. And if it isn't - what happened? Especially now that it is clear that this bank's business has been poor. In some cases, at the crime line. If the law prevents the President of the Government from doing anything, then do not invite people to think about it because it has its consequences. By doubting that the law prevents anything. If the law allows today to investigate those who have investigated the takeover of the SCT, then the law also allows those who have misdirected the bank to return the unjustifiable reward. If I go back to the specificity of this document, let me draw attention to some illogicality, because at its meeting, when it addressed this so-called exit strategy, the Government had four documents on its agenda. We received only two in the National Assembly: this general part and a review of the actions by ministries. One of those dealt with by the Government and which did not come to the National Assembly is also a proposal for amendments to the resolution on national development projects. The Government proposes to delete 13 national projects from this resolution, which identifies key development projects in Slovenia by 2020 and in some of them. Among other things, it is proposed that the development axes be deleted from this resolution. Delete a project to build a network of state roads on development axes, as it is officially called, which is not only an infrastructure project, but are development projects. This is a very bad message for Koroška, for Bela Krajina, for Ribniška, Kočevsko, Posavje, Zasavje, for Goriška or for northern Primorsko, because, apart from this resolution on national development projects, there is no other similar strategic document at the government level where this project or these projects could receive an appropriate legal and political basis. The document which was held by the Government also does not suggest that this project would be transferred to any other strategic plans, as opposed to what is proposed in some other projects. This is how we appeal from this place to the Government to reconsider the deletion of this and some other projects in the resolution. Given that the proposals for amending this document, where it is specifically proposed to delete 13 projects with different explanations, that this was the most concrete document discussed at this point, it would be good for the Government to send this to the National Assembly as well. Finally, we are not formally deciding on anything today. The Government has not proposed any decision on this exit strategy. It is also difficult to propose something because, as has already been said, some measures are to be supported, others are not. Some general conclusion - I don't know what it would mean. However, this document is missing because obviously these decisions will have a direct impact on at least a third of Slovenia if they have been made or if they have already been made, because this is not clear either. Through the work of our Strategic Council, the Slovenian Democratic Party has specifically identified itself as to all direct, as well as indirect, action or some reforms in this so-called exit strategy. We have already put forward some views publicly, some of which will be put forward by my colleagues and colleagues in the course of this debate on the document. If I make a summary, I can say that some of the measures will be taken if they are drawn up and sent in the form of legislative proposals - I hope that as soon as possible - we will support, as we have supported most of the measures proposed by the Government so far, including those where we have said: something better than nothing. However, once again, we point out that the final performance is taking place today at the principal level. We are discussing in a bad year the fourth general document produced by this government; we are discussing for the third time the same things, this document, where we did not discuss here after the crisis, was just a general debate. Now is the time to act. That is why we appeal to the Government - it would be good for the National Assembly to also adopt such a commitment - to prepare an appropriate timetable as soon as possible, to divide measures that are not worked out, and finally to make this so-called light work. For the time being, it is only the traffic light of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, where this organisation of the representation of the economy measures the implementation of some of the proposed measures in the above documents. Well, this traffic light shows a state of disaster. This is the last time I've warned about it, and nothing really has changed since those meetings that the Government had with the Economic Chamber. I see you have some computers in front of you, go to their website where you have this traffic light. I hope that this idea in the government, to present itself some such transparent way of monitoring the implementation of the measures, is not a pianist move, where something other than the light of the economy will be displayed there. Anyway, that's a good idea. All that contributes to transparency is to monitor, on the other hand, the implementation of measures to prevent the "copy paste" method known last year, when chapters from individual documents were only transferred to other documents and given other names; one such transparent monitoring is welcome and this is a good idea. I think that today the National Assembly, and even for the last time, is discussing these things at the principle level. I think that, after today's debate, there will be no one else here or anywhere else who would be willing to discuss another 5th strategic document, how from the crisis, without any concrete action. So I hope the government is aware of that. This is the last such document at the principal level, and action is needed from now on, including measures that will also be managed in a sustainable manner. Let me conclude that in what we have proposed as the opposition in the third package of anti-crisis measures, "The fight against the crisis is the fight for new jobs", and in what the Government has proposed in this so-called exit strategy, it is not a strategic difference between some liberal and social concept. If this so-called social concept, as in last year's year, continues to be financed by an increase in net state debt, then in a year and a half, no later than two years from now, Slovenia will no longer be in a position to indemnify itself in the framework of the European Stability and Growth Pact, and it will also achieve more difficult conditions when borrowing credits and when the sum you will have to provide in the budget just to cover interest will reach close to a billion. Whoever then solves this situation will, in fact, have to take action in a much more acute situation. And what is the situation then, you can see on television screens that report on what is happening in Greece. In fact, as the Prime Minister of the Government said earlier, today's meeting is important. Not so much because of the decisions, because no one is proposed, but because this awareness is that this is the last opportunity to discuss some principled documents, it is also the case with those who produce these documents constantly instead of concrete measures. Half of the manoeuvre space was used this year without any investment being made in guarantees for a long-term exit from the crisis. It is only at the end of the renewed call on the Government to complement this strategy with measures that will allow for an increase in employment in real time. We have not only proposed tax reliefs for this, we have proposed a number of other measures. However, they will have no special effect unless the economy stimulates employment. You cannot force the economy to work if there is no economic account behind it. And it is not possible to achieve this by means of a more flexible labour market that the economic account tends to push for the decision to hire new people. At the time when we discussed the flexible labour market in Slovenia, including during our term of office, it was the same. It is clear from our recent discussions with the Chambers and also with the Trade Unions that in recent years, in fact, no longer any company has been employed for an indefinite period of time. Everyone's only hiring for a certain period of time. It's not hard to forgive a worker like that. Some wild, flexible labor market was created at this time. The vast majority, some talking about 90% of employees in the economy in recent years, are employees for a certain period of time. This leads to a number of problems for individuals. Even if the actual situation is recognised by law now, this is commendable, but some direct stimulating effects on greater employment will not bring this. And again, we're talking about how to drive this formula of decision so that economists or entrepreneurs can get jobs. And here are the tax incentives for investments that bring new jobs, you don't want one of the key instruments. When we repeated this proposal in the third package of anti-crisis measures, we heard an obvious statement from the government side, why did you not introduce these incentives for investments in new jobs within your mandate or why you did not introduce this when you implemented the tax contract back then in 2007. We did not introduce these investments because it was no problem at all. If we did, we'd address a problem that wasn't there. At the time we adopted the last tax reform, it was not a problem of unemployment, it was a problem where to get workers. In 2006 and 2007, most Slovenian companies had a problem in most months of 2008 with where to get workers. To further stimulate me with tax reliefs for those who were hiring, this made no sense. At that time you told us that the economy was overheating and that such relief would only increase in some way. What do I mean? I want to say that various economic measures come into play at different times. When there are no problems with unemployment, do not deal with this problem with short-term measures. That's when it makes sense to accept long-term ones. We could've had more in the past. We're not here for a variety of reasons. I'm talking mainly about "flex security" or safe flexibility, as you call it in this document. When it comes to responding to a situation, to a crisis, it is necessary to accept things that are working. Don't tell anyone why he didn't do something at a time when it wasn't real. This is a completely empty excuse that can be easily rejected. Now the question is, why don't we go to this? Now it's a question of whether or not we owe each other. Finally, given that the key minister of the Government responsible for this problem, he said last time that the key objective of this strategy is to consolidate public finances. Once this is consolidated, other problems will be solved, and employment will increase, etc. I ask the whole Government how it imagines this consolidation of public finances without a newly created value and without an increase in employment. Where's that money coming from? So we need to get back to the beginning. First, it is necessary to take measures that will allow for more inflows and then public finances will be consolidated, of course in both emergency austerity scenarios. I doubt, however, that, according to the legislation, given the rights guaranteed and the measures and abilities of this government so far in this direction, you can save as much as the tide falls. We are here at the next utopia, which is quite a few in these proposed materials. And this utopia is that you're going to increase tax revenue by 20%. If you look at the tables you presented, it says that the tax inflows or inflows to the tax budget will be higher by the end of 2011, 2012, by 20%. With less economic growth planned. And don't talk about increasing any taxes. We would like to hear from the Government where 20% more tax inflows will come from if we do not plan for a corresponding higher economic growth or higher taxes. This formula just doesn't work. It's obviously some big mistake in this document, or there's something else in the background, it's a real increase in taxes, and that's not what you're talking about. Sometimes this is understandable, but in this situation there is no way to bring anyone around, in any case you can increase taxes only by law, which will be in public debate and debate in the National Assembly. At the end of the day, I would also like the government to explain this ambiguity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u30	Thank you. Ms Cveta Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u31	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr President, the distinguished Council of Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, it is indeed estimated that, or should be, 2010 will be a turning point for Slovenia. So far, we have been dealing with forecasts by economists about what stage of the financial and economic crisis we are in, or what kind of curve this crisis will have and where we are on this curve. We were also in a position to see economic growth in 2010, but at least for the time being, it has proved to be too optimistic - growth will be on low ground and recovery will be sustained. Most countries have a high unemployment rate, a large budget deficit and high public debt. The year 2010 is therefore a year of political and economic challenges. Political because nothing will or should be the same as it has been before, but economic because the previous Slovenian economic model, as in many other countries, has proved to be underdeveloped, sustainable or environmentally sustainable, not to mention its social pay. Slovenia needs an exit strategy based on long-term objectives. In doing so, it will be necessary to be careful, as any wrong measure will have long-term consequences, which will only make the crisis worse in Slovenia. However, it is clear that the current policy of maintaining the status quo must be replaced by a policy of change, reform and restructuring. The problem is that the actions of the exit strategy must be guided by the consolidation of public finances, which severely narrows down Slovenia's space of manoeuvre. The European Commission launched a procedure against Slovenia last year due to an excessive deficit. Measures to consolidate public finances and reduce the public financial deficit below 3% of the gross domestic social product are necessary, as far as the ceiling set by the Stability and Growth Pact is concerned. The Slovenian Stability Programme provides for fiscal austerity or restrictive fiscal policy over the next four years. The basic direction of these measures is to save on consumption and to a very small extent to increase public finances or taxes. The measures by which the Government intends to reduce the deficit to 2.9% by 2012 and then to 1.6% of GDP in 2013 provide for a reduction in the public sector's wages under the scenario without measures, a reduction in expenditure on the country's intermediate consumption, a continuation of the country's investments at a high level, but a replacement of the funding method for the benefit of the European Union budget. In addition, the Government provides for the maintenance of social transfers with simultaneous measures to streamline this system, the tax burden on minimum income debtors, the expansion of the contribution base for the calculation of compulsory health care contributions to other expenditure and income and the continuation of pension reform. The government leaves some open options on where it will increase and where it will reduce savings and on the nature of the measures themselves. This will resolve the dialogue with the social partners while ensuring the stabilisation of public finances. Another problem is that, above all, the specific priorities are those which, due to Slovenia's international competitiveness or non-competitiveness, are the most problematic and could bring the most benefits in the short term. The exit strategy is, however, a long-term approach and is designed as a combination of economic policy measures, structural changes and institutional adjustments. The government therefore faced a dilemma: whether we need a short, concise document with clearly defined activities or a document with the mentioned combination of economic policy measures, structural changes and institutional adjustments. As a kind of compromise, it has adopted an exit strategy that includes a series of short- and long-term measures to bring the country out of the crisis. The government has also added to the strategy as an annex a collection of ministries' actions with an impact on crisis recovery and economic recovery. It is a collection of measures by ministries that contribute most to overcoming the crisis and reviving the economy within the framework of the budgets adopted. The ministries have thus shown how the programmes, measures and projects adopted can already support the objectives of the exit strategy. With the exit strategy, we want to encourage economic activity, ensure a gradual elimination of macroeconomic imbalances and, taking into account the social and environmental aspects of development, enable a gradual increase in economic growth. The exit strategy has set three basic development priorities for the period 2010 to 2013, namely entrepreneurship and knowledge for development, security and social cohesion, and developmental transport and energy infrastructure for an effective and stable environmental balance. The share of the package concerning entrepreneurship and competitiveness in GDP gross domestic product will increase from 0.8% in 2008 to around 1% by 2013. To higher education, science, technology and information society, the share will increase from 1.3% to 2%, the labour market, as part of safe and social cohesion, from 0.5% to around 1% of GDP, social and health care is expected to increase from 5.8% to 6.8%, and transport infrastructure from 1.7% to around 2% of GDP. Among the more important measures, we would welcome the fact that public calls for development funding will be constantly open, which means that stakeholders will always be able to reach these funds throughout the year. In order to improve the situation in the banking system, it is envisaged, inter alia, to adapt and supplement guarantee schemes and state guarantees. In order to achieve the concept of safe flexibility, changes are prepared in the arrangements for the so-called small work and working relationship with the preparation of amendments to the labour law, which is already in the final phase. Following the expiry of the job conservation subsidy schemes, active employment policy measures, social programmes and lifelong learning policies will be at the forefront of structural change. And we could list it. The Group does indeed assess that there are real priorities and many good measures proposed in the exit strategy, and it is now necessary to make operationally and timely clear when and who will implement these measures, and to do, as has been said many times today, work or implementation, the implementation of what is written in the document we are talking about today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u32	Thank you. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u33	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished ministers and ministers, secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! In this debate, I will try to be as constructive as possible as our representative was at the meeting of the parent committee, as we need to listen as much as possible to each other in the debates on documents like this before us today. Let me start by saying that we will support this document in the SLS Group, despite the fact that the strategy assumes that the financial crisis is over and is focusing on post-crisis adjustment measures. In addition, we can say that the strategy is too general and does not indicate concrete measures, from which we could also hope for concrete effects on economic growth. The strategy sets out three fundamental economic policy measures: consolidation of public finances, financing for development and strengthening of the elements of secure flexibility. In the area of public finances, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes in the strategy that public debt will increase throughout the entire period defined by the strategy, except in 2013, of course under the condition that the target scenario is achieved. In view of the already mentioned concerns about a strategy based on the optimistic development of further economic conditions, we are convinced that doubts about the achievement of the strategy's target scenario are repeatedly justified. Stronger measures would be necessary as, given the size of public debt, the growing problem is the high interest costs, which will be close to €600 million next year. Of course, let me continue to express my opinion on the specific details of this strategy. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the priority of safe flexibility and social cohesion and the priority for the development of transport and energy infrastructure. We support the amendment of the guarantee schemes by making this happen already, and I urge you to hurry. We support the action to limit the ceiling of the social contribution insurance base, but the strategy suggests that the decision to impose the ceiling on social contributions will be taken after examining the effects and consequences of the measure, which will have to be fiscally neutral. It is unacceptable that not only has the Government not taken concrete and effective measures to prevent the negative effects of the crisis throughout the financial and economic crisis, it will even write into the strategy measures whose implementation is linked to the examination of the effects. It is already clear in advance that a concrete measure has negative fiscal effects. Resolve the deficit from this title at the expense of raising the current minimum basis for calculation at s.p.s. and d.o.s. is really incomprehensible. On the one hand, the government stresses the importance of small economies, small and medium-sized enterprises in the strategy and considers measures to reduce the competitiveness of these same companies. So what is the strategy following? We support the modernisation of labour market regulation and, as we have already said many times, we are aware that structural reforms in the area of the pension and health system are urgently needed. Of course, there are many questions to be asked, but this sour apple simply needs to be bitten. By doing so, for example, when retirement age rises, it is possible to achieve simultaneously faster or earlier entry of young people into the labour market. These two measures will only have an effect if the economy in Slovenia is strengthened as well. Unfortunately, this strategy does not guarantee this, since it is even at odds with itself in certain segments, for example in a small economy. Furthermore, we support the introduction of a fiscal rule, which is essential. However, we believe that linking the nominal growth of the country's expenditure to the growth of potential gross social product is too complicated. We support public sector savings at cca level. Although 400 million a year is too ambitious. The government should aim to reduce public spending by at least 10% or around €900 million in one year. Of this, it is necessary to leave at least 2/3 of this savings in the form of a direct reduction in tax rates to profit and even more burdensome labour costs. This is a measure which, in combination with other measures, can help the immediate and direct economy to cope with the crisis so that we can truly emerge from the crisis as winners. We support the reduction of labour costs in the public sector, this is a reduction in the number of employees in the public sector for approx. 1600 a year. However, we believe that this plan is, nevertheless, too modest. At the same time, we ask ourselves whether the Government has taken into account its irresponsible agreement with the public sector trade unions that there will be no forgiveness for the next few years. We support three priority actions and projects to achieve the development goals, although we are disappointed within this that there is nothing more concrete in promoting entrepreneurship and competitiveness. It is important to ask how the country or government can change the business environment in Slovenia in order, for example, to make Gorenje a competitive Europe. That's a key question. We are skeptical of certain measures, such as the sale of state capital in times of crisis. However, resources from the sale of shares should only be earmarked for development projects. Of course, we absolutely oppose the sale of strategic investments by the country, namely financial institutions, banks, insurance companies and some other important infrastructure companies. We are skeptical about adapting operational programmes and changing spending rights. This, in turn, may put an end to the successful use of European funds for an indefinite period of time. We are skeptical about the coordination of financial instruments. What is that, exactly? Does it belong to the exit strategy? Furthermore, in the case of an active employment policy, we do not have the right solutions for the category of employees who lose their jobs after 50 years of age; for small work and that this is one of the key measures and the biggest problems of this country; for some institutional adjustments: Capital Investment Management Agency, Dars and so on. There's a lot of talk about value added. What are those activities that ensure this? And do not speak, please, that we will now establish only those jobs with high added value or eliminate those that do not have enough added value. We miss this document and propose to encourage technical professions in the education system. Furthermore, more attention needs to be paid to the economy. This strategy should deal more with the economy. Furthermore, the efficiency of the environmental social market economy depends on a balanced mix of small, medium and large enterprises. The economy needs an economically strong sector of small and medium-sized enterprises based on innovation, the search for new ideas and solutions and ambitions after achieving business excellence. Each of these micro, small and medium-sized enterprises plays an important role in maintaining and creating new jobs and places for apprentices. Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are urgently needed to ensure competition. They mention the opportunity to jump from employee to self-employment and are an essential prerequisite for the decentralisation of economic power. Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have many advantages as they are more flexible in many respects, they can make decisions faster and they are less bureaucratic, but they are often in a poorer competitive situation compared to larger companies. For this reason, incentives should be increased mainly with regard to duties and the creation of equity. We need an answer to the question of how to increase competitiveness and how to create a business environment that will allow investment and jobs. We lack measures to relieve the economy. We miss the commitment to radically saving in the public sector in all segments. I'm sure there's not enough $400 million at the annual level. We lack the promotion of real-sector investment. We miss measures of greater financial decentralisation in Slovenia, so that the expenditure of all levels of local self-government, municipalities and provinces would amount to a much larger share of GDP, regardless of any increase in government spending, but for relocation from the state to the local level. We are concerned about the measure to increase the minimum wage, which is not accompanied by urgent measures to relieve employers. So much for the introduction and to conclude, I would like to reiterate that we support the proposed document in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. However, at the level of concrete measures, we expect, as has been said, much more activity than is predicted in this strategy, with a clear timetable and monitoring of the preparation of concrete measures and their effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u34	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u35	Dear Mr. Vice President! Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Minister and Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! With the empty seats of Members and Ministers, I will present to you the position on the Slovenian exit strategy 2010-2013. The Slovenian exit strategy includes 10 economic policy measures, structural measures and institutional adjustments. The measures to reduce the deficit include a gross reduction in public sector wages, a reduction in expenditure on intermediate consumption of the country, a continuation of high-level investments by the European Union, a rationalisation of the social transfer system, a decommissioning of taxpayers with the lowest income, an increase in the compulsory health care base and a continuation of the pension reform. All these measures, which are the result of the analyses and proposals of individual ministerial departments, are undoubtedly encouraging and austerity in nature and will, in our opinion, help to solve the economic and financial crisis and thus also contribute to economic recovery. The international environment is already improving. The Slovenian situation is also improving, which shows a gradual but noticeable reinforcement of Slovenian exports. Thus, the forecasts of economic growth in the coming years can be realistic. They are optimistic and at the same time uncertain, but there is an opportunity, as I have already said, that they will come true. On the basis of this assumption, the proposed measures of the Government, which also include a number of anti-crisis measures that were dealt with at the previous extraordinary meeting at the initiative of the opposition, are also feasible. Our Group sees practically no reason for non-supporting these measures. The latter means that we expect if we really agree with the basic guidelines that we will be united and coherent in supporting and resolving the consequences of the crisis, both coalition and opposition. As far as structural changes are concerned, the DeSUS Group is convinced that they are necessary, even more - they are necessary! This is mainly about changes in health, pensions and the labour market. In preparation, the so-called health reform, including pension reform, modernisation of the latter system is essential if we are to ensure the long-term financial sustainability of this system and at the same time the adequacy of pensions for individuals. For the parliamentary group, for the party DeSUS and, of course, for the entire pension generation, pensions are a fundamental issue. Pensions are earned and therefore are an economic and not social category which would potentially depend on the good will of individual stakeholders or even political parties. That is why this generation needs to be taken care of, since the fear of poverty and poverty alone is facing an increasing number of elderly people. Health reform is also extremely important and necessary, and it is essential to focus on the main objective of protecting the weaker - these are all patients. There is no doubt that special attention must also be given to the labour market. Indicators show that it is not just some indicators but individuals who find themselves in an unenviable position when they are unable to support themselves or their family. Indicators show that the situation is deteriorating and the number of unemployed will certainly rise. It is up to us and the Government to limit this number to a minimum and provide individuals with at least the social level that will enable them to survive. I'm not talking about a decent life. We can't talk about this for a while. I'm talking about survival. Let me finish. In principle, the Group supports the proposed measures, as we optimistically expect them to help solve the serious consequences of this crisis. However, we note that only these measures, if only the letter on paper remains, will not be the results in the direction of the objective to which they tend. It will be necessary to approach the drafting of legal provisions and the adoption of these. And that won't be enough. All these things will also have to be actually implemented. The DeSUS Members of this document and we support these measures. Of course, this does not mean that we will unwittingly support every bill written on this basis. We will examine all the proposals in detail. If solutions are to go in the direction to which we are striving, it is not to be afraid that their votes will not contribute to their adoption. On the contrary, the proposals will by no means be supported by our side, but the proposals will by no means be supported by us if they go towards reducing the social, health and rights of individuals, if they constitute a violation of a just, friendly, and socially secure state and society. Members of the DeSUS will also monitor and strive to protect the well-being of pensioners, workers, the unemployed, patients and young people when adopting acts based on these measures. We will strongly oppose any unjustified and unnecessary deterioration of the rights of individuals. In order to implement all these measures, a real exit from the crisis, whose timing will certainly pass the time frame of this mandate, will certainly require not only a political but also a social and economic consensus. Only under these assumptions can we look optimisticly forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u36	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u37	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, ministerial council, Prime Minister! The exit strategy itself in the theoretical part contains 33 pages, with proposals for measures of 40 additional, is 73 and I do not think it is necessary to mention another additional document, a 40-page stability programme. Personally, and some of my colleagues, I have studied and read the exit strategy and annexes as well as the stability programme. If I did not know that the stability programme was actually written only and only for the European Union, and therefore for the European part the exit strategy for the Slovenian part, I would say that it is a shame that these two documents, because they are very similar, are not unified and analytically developed more than they are. I come from the press and, above all, when we were witches and rapporteurs, it was always the basic principle of working on the question: who, when and what, then why and how. I would also expect answers to the five Ks, what, when, who, why and how from the exit strategy and also from the stability programme. Unfortunately, I think we are talking for the third or fourth time on a principled and general level. I believe and understand that it is right to talk at the principled and general level, but I think that is enough if once, twice or three times, because the crisis has not changed much in one year during these talks and we are still looking for a way out. Many predecessors have already said a number of things, so there is no point in repeating the exit strategy, which lists measures that are more or less similar to measures in some other countries of the European Union or are measures that are also enshrined in the renewed Stability and Growth Pact known by the European Union. We're all in the same boiler, and everyone's soup is burned, more or less. As has been said, some proposals for solutions, or with irresponsible "who" and, above all, "when" are not bad, are necessary, are mandatory and cannot be passed by them. However, we are all looking for answers to basic questions: how to revive the economy, how to employ an increasing number of unemployed people, how to enable more of these people to be consumed in order to start the economic cycle. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that in the exit strategy, of course from our point of view, there are not enough original ideas that are suitable for our country. For example, let me be specific. The geostrategic position of Slovenia has not been taken into account. I mean transport and tourism, which are very little mentioned and are a very important element. It does not take into account the importance of the natural treasures held by the State of the Republic of Slovenia. I refer mainly to forests and water. The exit from rescue does not take into account the possibilities offered by the agrarian environment, fragmentation and intensive production. The possibilities of participation in economic projects are not taken into account, which is also essential for us, in the Balkans, where Slovenian operators can be involved in funding from European programmes through Slovenia. There is no concrete plan to encourage the best entrepreneurs and a plan to help these entrepreneurs integrate intensively into the international offer. Otherwise, I will find out, but we are disturbed by the expression, which in fact by itself and probably by the content also says nothing - by "white jobs", "green jobs" and so on. However, in Chapter 3.1.4, which discusses priority measures and projects to achieve the development goals, we would like to say that there are no indications of the many advantages Slovenia has in front of all others. In order to be concrete: our advantage is nature, our advantage is pervasiveness, resulting in our economic advantage and the closest to the outcomes of the crisis to the development of tourism, is the development of biofood production, there is an opportunity for alternative medicine and a number of natural resources that would give enormous added value, such as forestry. If the tax burden were to be imposed on the export of refrigeration, this would be a very big step forward. The release of the labour market. We do not understand why we should not establish the most basic and simple form of the mechanism of work, this is personal work. Simple and understandable - personal work. This would not be work that would be personally complementary, but personal work - in the field of technology, business, in the field of science, in the field of households, agricultural workers, masters in production, maintenance. If this category existed, businesses should not have to be organised and this would result in a significant reduction in unemployment, the exploitation of individuals would be greater, smaller companies would have access to experts. In the Slovenian National Party, we have on several occasions proposed incentives for investments, from experience for a strong investment, zero to a certain period. None of this happened. Nobody wanted to hear about the lower tax rate for investors. We have often proposed the protection of the domestic workforce. Many countries that have entered the European Union have introduced a so-called transition period for the labour market. Every day we see examples of what happens when ours are jobless, imported and in an ugly way, which I am ashamed of, we exploit foreigners. And we give other foreigners much better conditions than Slovenian workers. None of this was done by the Government, not the previous nor the present, but we had every right to call for a transitional period. There's nothing written in this program, so I'm the mayor myself, but I'll be honest. Irma Pavlinič Krebs has the most work to do and will be the least popular, but with all the measures and they need to be told what will happen, this is at least something concrete that will happen in 2012 to reduce the number of employees in the public administration by 6 000 200, to reduce the basic salary, to abolish the academic title allowance, to reduce the situational allowances, to avoid paying regular wages, to reduce the number of workers in the public administration due to an increase in the amount of work, to close the gap in basic salaries, to end the cost of living in order to reduce transport for work by 20%, in order to reduce the rate for food by 10%, to reduce cancellations by 30%. You know, there are painful measures that are very urgent, but unfortunately, the only concrete and only concrete measures in this area. But no one mentioned that it would be a time to start a retrograde process with us in the formation of congregations, as we have been accustomed to. The expansion with the congregations is over. 212 municipalities in the country of the Republic of Slovenia spend 2 billion euros annually. Of this, 20% or 400 million euros are for their work only. EUR 2 billion, assuming that if we go to regionalisation, we will need at least EUR 100 million per year in additional work. This is also one measure by which this country would acquire a huge amount of resources by pooling the fragmented municipalities into a smaller number of larger municipalities. This is what the president of the National Assembly, an experience from Denmark a few days ago, knows where some more than 200 congregations came from. Of course, with a favourable financial impact. The truth is, we have the past and the present. It is not only that tax revenues are lower due to the poorer economic situation. The truth is that the tax recovery was poor and that the legal state in this case, like that song, died when they persecuted ordinary people for 17 euros and for 100,000 or tens of thousands of Euros of taxes for no one because they were denied. Poor tax recovery. And today we know about those, and I ask the government in this case whether we recovered those people and thus acquired a few hundred thousand Euros of unpaid taxes that we should pay back at that time. Changes on the revenue side, proposed in the Slovenian National Party, will only bring about adjustments to structural resources. The new Ljubljana Bank, we want or we don't want, is the system's most important bank. And a hand on the heart, from 1990 to today, which authority, which was not machetely dealt with by that bank. We did not appreciate it; it was not enough for the authorities to appreciate this large bank of theirs, and it was not enough for every authority to have a fair and transparent relationship with this bank. It is a systemically important bank and is a polygon, unfortunately, the consequences of today, and has been a polygon all the time for the exercise of political interests. And that's what buried that bank. Even today, it is a range for the promotion of political interests. Colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, we have rightly said what we know about this Slovenia that it has, and we have not found this in this programme, in the exit strategy. Don't tell me we didn't work together. We've said what we know and we're sure it's wrong and it can be fixed. We told you where else to help. So much can it be, with respect of course, that this is the last general principle of speaking good for the Slovenes and Slovenians, not for us 90 and for a few hundred people or a thousand in the government, and for the judiciary and in the National Assembly, this document is important for the whole of Slovenia. There are no conclusions, here to say, I'm in, I support, I don't support, it's stupid to decide anything like that. We must all give a critical opinion on this exit strategy. We all need to do something where we owe it to each other to win together. But we all have to warn that there is enough general and principled writing and theory to be lacking "who," "what" and "when" that the timeline is missing, that specific laws are missing and that action is lacking. I believe the government has promised a large bowl of fresh fruit, but right now I believe so much that I see this bowl of fruit as a quieting on the wall. For now. I hope we see her in front of us sometime. Thank you so much for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u38	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u39	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the ministers! The document entitled Slovenian exit strategy is understood as the direction of the Government and the National Assembly, which will have to adopt legislation that will follow the Government's measures to bring Slovenia out of this economic and financial crisis with a boosted economic activity and an end to macroeconomic imbalances. This is a responsible and difficult task. To achieve this, I foresee a common objective will require a fairly large consensus, not only in this National Assembly, but also in the business environment, but in particular between the social partners and the public in general. Even the best strategy without support will not be successful. So at the beginning of the debate, let us try to look for those connecting points that will mean a common path from the economic and financial crisis and draw attention to those elements that will also mean traps that would not succeed with the exit from the crisis so that after the crisis we will be even stronger and ready for the new economic and development challenges. Slovenia will emerge from the crisis, whether we take a measure or not. We are part of a global economy, and once this has come out of the crisis, it will draw Slovenia along. Of course, the question arises as to what Slovenia will be like then and what will happen to our competitiveness and the successful social state that we all have in our development programmes, regardless of which side of this hall we are sitting on. The government has prepared an exit strategy based on a combination of economic policy measures and structural changes that, while ensuring fiscal sustainability, make the social situation easier and strengthen the competitiveness of the economy and the creation of new jobs. Indeed, new jobs with greater added value and the relaunching of old jobs, which have somehow been frozen by companies in this crisis, are a marriage for greater social cohesion, which is one of the most important objectives of this exit strategy. It is therefore necessary to also define structural measures and institutional adjustments in the new exit strategy. It is not enough to emerge from the crisis, it is also important to ensure a longer-term stability of the economic and public system. Allow me to put a little more emphasis on public finances in my debate, which are also often unjustifiably attacked or seek a way out of the crisis only in the field of public finances. Of course, this is done uncritically and wrongly. I agree with all those who say that in the public sector, which is financed by public finances, maximum rationalisation needs to be made and development must also be targeted. Without the public sector, it will not be possible to rehabilitate the economy. We need to know that the public sector is not only a consumer, but mostly a passenger in overcoming the crisis as well as a generator of new development. Inadvertently reducing public spending may question the whole public sector, and without a successful and efficient public sector, there will also be no successful exit from the economic crisis. The first measure proposed by the Government and already used in the budget formulation for 2010 and 2011 and in the projections for 2012 and 2013 is a fiscal rule limiting the expenditure of the State budget. This limit is now set at a good EUR 9 billion in the integral part of the budget, without the European Community funding, irrespective of revenue. This rule can be dangerous if the crisis continues to deepen in 2010 and the revenues of the integrated budget will be lower than planned. Public debt on the part of the State is likely to increase further, and this can be extremely dangerous for the public finances system. The rule proposed by the SDS to address their anti-crisis measures in order to limit budget expenditure to a percentage of GDP could also be effective, but at the risk that, in the event of faster economic growth, they would simply spend more and, at the same time, they would intervene in the part of the budget that is intended for social transfers and development and would not reduce the deficit. I support the fiscal rule of fixed expenditure, as we know in advance what lies ahead in the area of public finances. However, more responsibility will have to be given to budgeting in the future. However, another measure I would like to comment on is the adaptation of guarantee instruments, guarantee schemes and other forms of State aid. The guarantee scheme for the accreditation of the economy did not produce the expected results. Here we can be united, especially because it has not been previously analysed whether the economy will be able to even rent a loan under conditions such as those set out in the Guarantee Scheme Act. When we passed the Guarantee Scheme Act at the beginning of 2009, we anticipated guarantees of up to 80% by the State. In fact, the banks offered only up to 35% of the principals' value at the bids. With this, the banks actually recovered some of their bad loans, and there were almost no new ones. Where is the reason for such failure in the original guarantee scheme? Not that the whole process has been rather bureaucratic, the reasons for the overindebted economy must be sought. I would not like to return in the period 2004-2008, but in this case it must be said that the economy has over-indebted itself during this period and has set up all its first-class assets in banks and financial institutions, and today there is no longer any possibility of further borrowing and depositing its assets, which has already been repossessed at some point. However, such over-indebtedness is certainly also indirectly the responsibility of the then authorities, which promoted such indebtedness and thus did indeed increase GDP and economic growth, but also inflation. The change in the way the guarantee is provided must be weighed, as we cannot afford to look for the best solution for another year, while our businesses would fail. Overindebted economy, however, has not decreased during this period. The issue of the success of the guarantee scheme will also be largely a matter of whether we will succeed in the recovery of the economy alone. The exit strategy also provides for the concept of the rehabilitation of bad investments by banks and, consequently, their recovery. If the stability of banks is not yet threatened today and the proportion of bank weakenings is still acceptable, we may soon find that this will be one of the major problems. There's a major crisis in the construction sector. The share of loans held by construction companies in banks is large and may jeopardise the stability of the banking system. If construction companies were still completing their work at residential and business facilities in 2009, they will now have to be placed in their function: apartments for sale or for rent and also for business premises. If we have quite a bit of interest in renting in the residential area, I fear that this will be more difficult in the business premises. There is some assessment that we have completed, finalised or are in the process of cca completion in Slovenia. 5,000 flats. That's an enormous amount. All these apartments are built mainly with loans and these loans will have to be returned to banks. I propose to the Government that it seek to collect data on the housing and business premises, connect banks and owners of unfinished movements, establish a real estate fund to manage these apartments and business premises and rent them. This can also be a model for the rehabilitation of poor investments in construction banks, which can later prove to be good. This will allow the citizens of Slovenia to come to rental apartments or business premises, because we cannot all buy an apartment or a business space, banks and owners will come to their money through rents in a longer period. However, if there is any money available, let us use it to subsidize rents, allowing especially young people and all those in need of adequate housing to get to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr. Andrej Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Well-welcome members of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u42	Excuse me, Mr. Vizjak, I have overlooked you, Mr. Vizjak. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u43	The predecessor also talked a lot about the need for support, consensus, for a way out of the crisis and also for the implementation of such and similar strategies. Especially likely he was referring to the social partners, less to the opposition, because the opposition does not normally seek consensus in this suit. But it is worrying not to seek consensus with the social partners as well. In fact, the government has proposed an exit strategy without coordinating it in any way or creating it in cooperation with those most accounted for when it comes out of the crisis, which is probably with the economy. The government had quite a few basis for preparing the exit strategy. It had many proposals for an economy covered in such and different forms. The Chamber of Commerce forwarded its vision, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry sent its vision, the Employers' Association its vision, the Chamber of Commerce its vision. In short, we're building more than enough. Also, more than a week ago, the opposition sent its views on the way out of the crisis and imposed several ten measures. The government actually had an ideal situation. She had a very clear message of what the economy was waiting for and where they saw an exit strategy or the necessary measures to get out of the crisis. It decided on its path, more or less an academic principle path, and proposed a mix of medium-term long-term measures, desires and guidance that is not structured and has a great deal of difficulty in managing it. Such a document cannot be managed without monitoring whether it will be implemented in practice or not in practice, at least not in important parts. In some it can be controlled later, where there are clear goals. There are clear objectives, for example in consolidating public finances, and we welcome this. Whilst, in order to revive the economy, to increase the economic activity of the measures, it is essential that they are not or are not at all and it will be extremely difficult to verify and measure them over time. And let me be specific, and here I would also point to that significant gap between the government and the opposition. So where do we see in the opposition those key instruments, levers to create jobs and consequently raise economic activity and growth? We see it in a decommissioning of the economy, not only the tax but also the administrative burden of the economy. We see it in a number of national projects that need to be launched, it is called giving the economy a job. National projects, which can also be financed mainly by European funds, are from development axes, upgrades of railway infrastructure, economic and logistics centres and also from a number of other projects listed in the resolution on national projects or similar documents. Today, to say that these projects are not ready to be implemented is likely to be clear, given that you have been in control of this country for more than a year and that you can also accelerate any preparation of spatial and implementation documents. And where else do we see the necessary measures that are not available? In providing liquid assets to the economy. We propose the establishment of a so-called bad bank - why - to clear the balance sheets of commercial banks and, of course, the largest Slovenian banks so that they can service the economy. You do not consider this appropriate, and these measures are not available to you, but I would like to point out here a major problem that is going on. It is more obvious that the economy is yelling that, if a loan is already made, this loan is incomparably worse than in other countries. Thus, loans are more expensive, as there is a need for significantly higher insurance, even interest is higher and similar. And, look at the fraction, and your overall support to the economy is based on some kind of support to economic operators through subsidising the return capital, which means that an economy that is already unable to obtain credit or is also expensive and actually unavailable, only through this channel do you want to help them, instead of stepping in with grants, in order to in particular activate key and urgent projects. Look, on one occasion, I'm going to point out how one project stopped completely unnecessary and could employ quite a lot of construction operations, but not just these different subcontractors and everything that goes with it. A key national project, which you also support, is a project for the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava, which has been put into operation, not in the design. In design, too. But in the performance. Why? This is because the Ministry of Environment and Space did not adopt a financial structure for financing water infrastructure until June last year. The Government’s decision was to adopt it by June of the previous year, i.e. by 2009 a financial structure. To date, this is the only one that has not been adopted. The project has all the permits and is waiting for an invitation to build the Accumulation Pool of the Krško hydroelectric power plant. This call is not made because the financial structure is not closed because the government has not done or the Ministry of its work and the project stands. Instead of developing, of course. There is a design of the construction or hydroelectric Brežice, it is the design of the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant. Why, what? These are key projects and I want to tell you here that by speeding up such projects and similar projects, they could have a significant impact on the recovery of economic activity and provide jobs in Slovenia and provide revenue to the budget instead of the expenditure you have through social transfers because people do not have a job. And here, respected members of the government, are these key differences between your plans, your orientations and our concrete proposals, which are elaborated in the third package. That, of course, the problem is even greater, you also propose to delete a whole set of extremely important projects from the resolution of national development projects by 2023. Why delete the modernisation of road infrastructure or the development of axles? What is the third development axis that is the key national project, for example? Dear Minister Vlačič, I will read to you, your strategy reads: "To be deleted from the resolution." If there is a national project, the national project connects Koroška with White Krajina over, practically, the whole of Slovenia. This is not a regional project, it cannot be a regional project. The regional project can be a road link between Brežice and Kršek, but it cannot be the third development of the axis. At the last meeting of the Government, on 10 February you adopted a report by the Government of Development and European Affairs, from which you propose to delete these projects from the resolution and to impose on this same service a change to the resolution over a certain period. That's how you accepted it. You're also proposing deleting a whole bunch of others so I don't talk about economic centres. You keep three for, the other six you say are not feasible, although I can agree with you in my work, but not in the main part. Some of them are workable, but nothing's done to them, so they're not workable. Therefore, the effectiveness of the support and the effectiveness of some of the specificisation of this exit strategy would depend very much on the coordination dialogue and the degree of coordination, particularly with the Slovenian economy. When we discussed this exit strategy on the Committee on the Economy two days ago, all the representatives of the Chambers said that they had not at all checked their views on this strategy on the bodies of the Chambers, because they had not had time to do so because they were facing this strategy for a day or two. Thus, the economy you are probably counting on to come out of this crisis has not been involved in the creation. More. You didn't introduce him to this exit strategy before you took it to the government. That's not right. This is an indication of this exit strategy, and I am therefore afraid that this is again one of the dead letters on paper.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u44	Thank you. Mr. Gaspari, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, I would like to say something, because Mr Visiak usually denies in his statements what happened, so that we can clear this up first. The government has neither discussed nor adopted any decision on the resolution on development projects, nor on national development projects, but is an annex to the discussion on the strategy. The resolution on national development projects is a government document and is an indicative document, as you know. Because if it were not an indicative document, one would wonder how it could be listed in projects worth 23 billion, of which 7 billion are provided in the State budget for the period up to 2023. So it is a purely indicative set of possible projects, on which even you, when adopting this document, wrote: "The government will propose appropriate additions in view of the actual dynamics in the preparation of the projects in the coming years if it is found that an individual project is not feasible." That's exactly what we're doing right now. We review the feasibility of these projects, as you have written down, and when we find out what will happen to these projects, with their actual feasibility, we will decide what is going to happen to those projects that are feasible during a period that is verifiable. This is, for example, until 2013. By 2023, no project is controlled because we do not know what will happen by 2015. Whoever knows what will happen by 2023 is a prophet. At that time, you wrote before the local elections some relatively interesting list, among which were things that probably do not belong, such as the various islands and Megalaxia, which will probably fall out of this, but will not be about correcting the resolution, but will be about preparing a state development programme of investments that will be an integral part of the budget documents. So that we will once again have a link between the development documents and what actually happens in the budget documents also financially then. If you look at the budgets since 2000, this document was made in 2007, and if you look at the documents, already yours, 2008 and 2009, which you will be preparing, so to speak, none of these development projects in the resolution in the development programme plan are financially evaluated. So either you forgot about them or there was not enough funding to include them in these projects. What we wrote down as a job, you must have concluded on this subject because you saw among the documents submitted to the Government, this document, which was not submitted for acceptance, but as an attachment. But if our service has already reviewed all these things, and many of my colleagues have also participated in the creation of this document, if you remember, years ago, we find that some of these projects do not belong to the plan, if you want, of the resolutions on national development projects, but belong to other documents, which does not mean that they will not be implemented. What you've tried to do today, the third axis, because it's also politically sounding good, is not true that anyone stops it or cancels it. After all, the Minister of Transport will be able to respond. It is true, however, that it is so impossible to reach a local consensus with our Slovenian manner, where this axis will take place; that is true. [[The ad in the hall.]] No, no, that's not true. Yes, unfortunately no, unfortunately no, because then there will always be local communities saying that this is against their interests, which is already happening, by the way. You know exactly what relationship I mean in this context. As regards energy facilities, a representative of the Ministry of the Environment will be able to comment. Now, something about what Mr Janša said earlier when he had his opening presentation. First of all, with regard to the repetition of old proposals. I took a lot of time, and I also reviewed very thoroughly the documents of the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce, as well as your document, which was submitted in January. I must say that this document, which was submitted in January, to which I have a relatively positive relationship in individual segments, is not a new document, is a more or less repetitive document from last July. Since this is now the third package, as you call it, it was the first one, the second one, and the first one was supposed to be the November package, so you named it in 2008, which we worked together. After all, the insurance scheme for savers was drawn up according to the proposals of the European Commission, because all other countries around us have accepted it. We accepted this in November 2008 so that there would be no arbitration in the field of savers, if you like. The Law on Guarantee Schemes and the Law on the provision of financial resources for the recapitalisation of credit and guarantees were made together with the Minister of Finance, who was then in office. To speak now, how many packages have you already submitted innovative, at this time and that we keep repeating old proposals, is, at least, incorrect if these two are properly compared. At least incorrect. With regard to your actions, I must say that, with regard to the systematics you are reading us, and the incompleteness of this document, although it has over 70 proposals, it is not systematically processed either. But that's not a major problem. What did you want to say with this document, although it has a very ambitious title - say, for example, in public finances - what is the proposal? In public finances, the proposal is to limit the public spending of the country's indebtedness. It's not a measure. This is a description of something that should still be achieved through some measures. Let's say it's an example. For example, another case that is supposed to be a crisis exit measure is a measure to tighten the control of vehicles that do not have compulsory insurance. You're reading to us a bunch of measures that have nothing to do with getting out of the crisis, and it doesn't really have anything to do with it. Then let's say subsidisation of insurance, I think it's an old measure, at least 5 to 10 years is already in the government debate and has already been accepted by different governments in terms of insurance, this is mainly for farmers and subsidisation. For example, for 2010, subsidies for agricultural insurance premiums are projected at EUR 13.5 million. So it's not an additional failure, because you keep telling us that we just don't know how to tell some new original measures to get out of the crisis. If you want, we can go a little bit further. One thing was also, I think, very serious about how to create new jobs. As the fiscal deficit rises, any tax relief will be money in the abyss. Because these new jobs will simply not be for the main reason, because fiscal measures of a restrictive nature will have to be so much stronger. And here is the basic dilemma, what is the first measure and what is the second measure in the order of action, when it comes to the situation where things are balanced, but when it comes to the situation where the fiscal deficit is present. If we want to return, I do not have this purpose today, although Mr Janša briefly mentioned who contributed to this debt and how this debt is now burdened with interest, data that is not a matter of government, but statistics and institutions that accompany this phenomenon is about a third of the measures that led to last year's deficit, the 2008 measures. A third were so-called stabilisers. Among other things, what as automaticism is established in the social system is that for the unemployed, when they increase the number of equal rights, the amount for this purpose increases. This was the second third that contributed to this, approximately less than 6% of last year's deficit. And the third third was measures, which were also partly decided by the National Assembly when it came to marriage and similar matters. So at least a third of this increase in interest, an increase of 200 million, about, a little less, from 300 to 500 and something, has contributed to the measures adopted in 2008, although this is exceptional, I will say to me, an inappropriate way of discussing this problem. The same as how to determine where this additional assignment went, whether in consumption or in investment. You will never find out because the money is not painted and you cannot follow it as easily as it seems at first sight. However, the situation is fiscal in Slovenia and what is essential from this point of view is a comparison within the Eurogroup. If we are talking about economic growth, it is true that this economic growth or decline, if you want, will be greater this year than on average in 2009 than in the Eurogroup, although let us wait for all the additional corrections that statistics normally make in September and then twice or three times in the following years for the year, in this case for 2009. At that time, we will be able to give a final judgment on what the actual decline of the social product was in 2009. Similarly, if you go to look for years back, from 2001, 2002, 2003 and beyond, see first rating, second rating, third rating, fourth evaluation of the Statistical Office and you will see that there are significant corrections in time. However, in this respect, we are actually worse on average. But we are better off speaking in the way we have been exposed, but we are better at deficits, we are better at unemployment, and we are better at some other indicators. What does all this mean? Nothing big if we do not draw the basic lesson from this, that if we choose measures in a way that starts with tax reliefs as a basic measure to promote the economy, then we need to be very confident and empirical practice does not convince us that this will improve the fiscal situation and therefore create new jobs immediately, not in three, four, five, six years. Because if it does, it will deteriorate in the meantime so much that we will no longer be able to think about those jobs in that way. And so, as I said before, the difference between us, if there's any difference in that we don't assume that we're starting to take action with tax reliefs, plus, and if I look at your material, there's about 16 reasons for that. I think there's 16 of them. But first, let us demand what was lacking in 2007 in the first tax reform that was not bad. This is because the structure of public financial expenditure was not adapted to the structure of the tax reform. If, too, we could not talk about the crisis at that time, but about the deterioration of the situation, we would, of course, expect less problems than we had later. So we're not going back to this concept, which is known in the world as peganomics, because it was first performed, tested in the United States 20 and 30 years ago, and which the next president, after the age of eight, brought a huge deficit and a major fiscal imbalance. So this assumption, that it will only be with tax reliefs and if we look at the net effect of the measures that you have proposed, is negative in this sense, first, it is easier than actual savings through appropriate public financial adjustments. Then, of course, the question is whether this concept brings results. And if he doesn't bring it, we're in a worse situation than we are today. Therefore, we say that the basic task in the area of public financial adjustment must first be done and only then made further adjustments. After all, your reform, which, as I say once again, was, as far as I am concerned, appropriate, set up a basic postulate, which is even in literature, when we are talking about academic papers and writing, also positive, and this is to reduce selective relief for various purposes, and therefore to reduce the general tax rate for each tax loan. And that's what you did in the beginning. Then, already in 2008, you began to modify this concept yourself and undermine it with a bunch of tax selective reliefs that you abolished a year ago. For example, a typical case is an investment relief. You went to a tax reduction on profits or a tax on legal persons, to which you began to increase selective investment relief in 2008. There's no wise answer to that, why it's necessary. And it is also not clear, of course, whether such reliefs have an actual economic impact which they foresee because there is no verified evidence of this. Long-term tax relief on investments 40% years ago, this is said in the second half of the 1990s and the first half of this decade, has mostly brought investment to shopping centres in Slovenia. This is verifiable now that it can be seen. This, of course, was not the basic purpose of this relief, which should go into technologically advanced production and projects. Trade centres are a useful thing, but they are not very important for quality jobs in this sense - but I think we agree - at least in terms of what employees in these centres say about their salaries. So this is about old, new, good, bad proposals from different applicants. As a rule, you followed in your proposals - this is also true and I think it is not bad - the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce and Part of the Chamber of Commerce. Although the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce and Economics, if you compare them with each other, in many ways even conflict, are said to be incompatible with their intentions and the objectives they want to pursue. As far as what Mr Janša has also mentioned is concerned, where after the crisis. This is not an official government document, it is a document of a group that has signed under this document; so much and nothing more. The preparation of the Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia for the next period has started and will contain very different documents from different stakeholders, with the Government not imposing the concept they must represent, but will certainly produce a lot of materials, papers that will be different in individual or conceptual terms. And only on the basis of what will come together through this way of action will the Government decide when all of this will be available, with what final proposal, if you want, the structure of this basic document, the strategy, will go into the government procedure and then continue to prepare this document. So this is essentially some sort of claim that has no real or actual basis. I've already said something about interest, and I wouldn't say it again, about economic indicators, either. It is interesting if you want to look at the materials that talk about fiscal reforms in European countries in the 1980s and 1990s. As a rule, the Scandinavian countries, Ireland and the Netherlands, which had a relatively large deficit, had to deal with the measures in order and structure at that time. In order not to force my own opinion on you, but the material is available, I think it was published by the OECD International Organization. About the so-called bad bank. There's basically no difference. The difference is one thing and it's very big. I mean, personal difference. This is that we do not see any need to form a special institution that will bear on itself so-called bad claims. You are not saying anything in your material on this proposal under any criteria and in what way, two essential determinants of being able to define this proposal. We wrote basically two things. First time. According to Banka Slovenije, it was not clear by the time this document was prepared that this procedure must be carried out immediately because it would have explicitly impeded the normal functioning of banks. The regulator has here, I would say, all available information, on which, of course, others can lean or on the basis of these, we also operate. The basic principles that I myself advocate and have accepted from the Government are that, given the need to evaluate bad claims. If we try to evaluate them according to market principles, we will put in place a fundamental problem, this is the so-called moral gambling. This is that banks will offer us more claims than actually bad claims is in the bank balance sheets. Since it is simple to calculate that by selling such claims to the State, of course the potential profit may be higher than it would have been. The experience of the rehabilitation of the Ljubljana Bank in the early 1990s showed that the bad claims that were transferred to the special agency at the time were for a simple reason because the systemic risk was so high that they could not otherwise be resolved, and this time of systemic risk is not to the extent that these claims were eventually cashed in between 10% and 12%. Today, we do not know whether these claims, which would now be passed on to the special balance sheet of a special institution, would be really worthless or would ultimately bring about, say, 30, 40, 50 or more % recovery. It is therefore important that the state insists on at least three criteria. First time. That banks are obliged to transfer such claims off-balance sheet and can remain calm in the bank, but off-balance sheet. It is not essential that such claims, which they wish to transfer to the non-balance sheet record, are liable first to write off all the reservations, all the weaknesses they have made so far and, if there is still insufficient funds to cover such claims, to deduct the capital of private or state owners. Only after this point can the country enter, recapitalise the bank if there is a systemic risk in the country or economy and on this basis acquires normal, eligible as any other shareholder. Any other procedure will favour the current owners and deprive the quality of the bank balance. And maybe that's the whole difference between us when we're talking about this particular issue. And if Banka Slovenije realizes that this moment has come, she will certainly discuss it with the National Assembly, not just the Government. With regard to pension reform, I must say that I do not agree with Mr Janša in the sense that we are scaring with certain requirements within the pension reform today, and things may need to be done in five or six years. It is already late today, for several years, for the start of the second phase of pension reform - you know that too. And we already know today that, according to the population structure of the Slovenian population, it is impossible to withstand such criteria, the parametric criteria of pension reform as we now have. And that the consequences of this will come to public finances before 2020, as a result of which we propose, inter alia, that an appropriate policy of active state property management create a space that will allow for the parametric reform of the pension system to be as mild as the need for a pension reform to increase public debt in part. Otherwise, we will discuss much more difficult changes in the first pillar of the pension system. So, there was no time available, unfortunately, the crisis had only brought him closer, even more so than it had seemed before, although it was already clear that we were late for this phase of reform. So it's not a public scare and an attempt at deception, it's a bloody question. I will not tell you today what the European Commission will say when reviewing the report on the implementation of the Lisbon Strategy last year in its document, which it has sent to Slovenia, which is also available to the public and you. These are the basic differences. Now, what is possible from this strategy, or government strategy, about specificity. This strategy contains 25 legal projects to be adopted by October of this year at the latest. I can list them in order: the Labour Relations Act, which is due to be dealt with at the end of February in the Government, the Labour Market Regulation Act, which is due to be in the Government in May and at the same time in Parliament, the Small Work Act, that I do not now mention, we will then be able to present to you the individual deadlines for the drafting of these laws. All these laws are important because, without legislative changes, certain measures cannot be implemented. If we look at your 70 and some of the measures that are recorded in your document, most of these measures are not implemented without a change of law. So it's the same problem. There is also no deadline or timetable in your document for how you would propose your actions to the Government for admission. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] No, you have not proposed laws where you have proposed this, but the effect of what you have proposed without no, not Mr Vizjak, must be so balanced in proposing individual measures that you can also ensure what you say first, fiscal stability. [[...]] [[..]] [[...]] The measures you have proposed so far do not guarantee this fiscal stability, unfortunately. Empirically determined, no. After that, it is what will actually show whether we meet this first criterion and the goal that other countries, including Germany and others, will now have to meet throughout Europe, because it is also a fundamental dilemma within the same coalition, or with tax reliefs or with measures that will balance the public financial position. Those of you who follow this well know it. As a result, Germany has not yet accepted any additional tax reliefs in its system because it is concerned and has not yet decided definitively to ensure fiscal stability over the next two years, which will not require action under the Maastricht criteria. So we're all on the same ship. Like I said, one more time, and then I'd be done with it. We agree with certain tax measures once those measures in the field of public financial expenditure are adopted and put into effect, which will ensure this space when fiscal stability is ensured, not at the expense of fiscal stability. It is impossible to say that tax measures will prove to be an immediate increase in tax resources and economic growth. Unfortunately, this was not the case, even with the tax reform you carried out in 2007. At that time, the economy grew, not because of tax reform, but because of the great growth of economic activity in the European Community. And this surplus was in Slovenia, only partly the result of measures at home, mainly due to an extremely high and unusually high concentration in the European Union, which is unfortunately not anymore. And even if you look today at the tax base where these additional tax reliefs are supposed to stabilise and enable it - last year we lost about a billion euros of tax resources due to the economic crisis. Therefore, the tax relief itself and the changes in the tax system unfortunately did not bring what was desired. This also did not happen in the last fiscal reforms that I mentioned earlier, all Scandinavian, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Ireland and the Netherlands. These are the most famous cases of fiscal adjustment required by the crisis that these countries had in the second half of the 1980s and the first half of the 1990s. I think that, of course, what the strategy must say is not a list of measures, but a basic way in which the measures will combine and time-bound. In this context, the strategy is clear that fiscal consolidation begins. This will be visible this spring and summer when the 2011 and 2012 budgets are submitted, including all those elements that are part of the consolidation of public finances, because we are not very different from each other, but you have mentioned only the element of public sector wages. We will get to that, and also a little wider in more segments, and I hope that we will be successful in this case, and, of course, this will be verifiable, as I said, with the documents, when these documents are created, which will be accepted by the Government and ultimately when these documents are confirmed in the National Assembly. So it is not a promise, I would say, some castles in the air, but it will be concrete proposals for measures that will be visible in the state budget. At the same time, it will be visible in the State budget that within the structure of the state budget, let us hope that something will be transferred to local budgets, so that this budget will show what are the basic priority structures that will therefore have different treatments in financial means than non-priority expenditure. Although non-priority expenditure does not yet mean that they are not unnecessary, they do not have this priority role, as those who are also recorded in the strategy, will also be implemented by the State through its actions. Regarding cohesion policy, which was a lot of talk yesterday, it is part of this, and also of these strategies or measures, which are necessary, the following. I will only read one paragraph from this document, which was sent by the European Commission when we read our report on the Lisbon Strategy last year at the end of the year. It says here that - I should now read in English, and I will try to translate freely: "The absorption process of European funding should be regulated, which would contribute to more sustainable public finances and provide more resources for Slovenia to implement the growth strategy. Financial engineering should improve efficiency and increase economies of scale and at the same time increase national measures for European financing." What does that mean in practice? This means that when we went to review, but mainly within the Government, the Local Self-Government and Development Service, the actual implementation of individual operational programmes, we found that some are doing better, others are doing worse in time and quality and in scope. And that, as soon as possible, all countries or most of the countries of the European Union have embarked on the same verification procedure, with the start of the crisis, to adapt, as soon as possible, the available cohesion policy programmes to the needs required by the crisis or resolution of this issue. One such measure, for which we are within, without making major changes in operational programmes, provides additional funds, which even you mention in your document when you speak in one point about European funds, is the so-called de minimis scheme. The de minimis scheme was a scheme that allowed funds to be redistributed within cohesion policy so that economic operators could obtain additional financial resources for their turnover under more favourable conditions. More resources could not be provided within this measure, although in principle this could be done because we should find an agreement and even after all something else in order to provide additional resources within or between operational programmes. So, as far as this cohesion policy is concerned, it is within these programmes that we will find those options that will ensure that there will be a quality realisation of all available resources by the end of this period. And that's what this job is doing, and it doesn't have any special obstacles to anyone else, even though yesterday some of you cited different facts or facts that weren't, but they were incorrect information. In conclusion, as far as this strategy is concerned, it will certainly happen that we will ensure fiscal stability, that we ensure, within this framework, the priority expenditure for those programmes that are priority for all the development documents Slovenia currently has, and also partly aligned with those that have cohesion policy, although cohesion policy is not fully aligned with the development planning documents of the Republic of Slovenia. Given that these measures will also be successfully adopted in the National Assembly, the National Assembly, individual Members and Members of the National Assembly will also be able to monitor this implementation in concrete terms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u47	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the House! According to the proposer, the exit strategy aims to achieve long-term sustainable economic growth through economic policy measures, structural measures and institutional adjustments. Everything's fine and fine. However, throughout the text of the exit strategy, I do not see a word on coherent regional development and decentralisation. Let me just remind you of yesterday's debate on drawing on European funds. In the Slovenian People's Party, we understand the fiscal decentralisation of Slovenia as an essential condition for successful political, administrative and decentralisation related to the process of regionalisation of Slovenia. The process of financial decentralisation should establish an optimal, vertical and horizontal fiscal structure, so that tax [[Income, corporate income tax, excise duty, value added tax, property tax and so on]] and non-taxable [[administrative fees, penalties and so on]] the revenue and transfers of the remaining levels of the European Union authorities, and so on, as well as other own revenue, have enabled the municipalities and the provinces to make sufficient and appropriate use of the expenditure of at least 20% of the gross social product. I'm not talking about any increase in government spending, I'm talking about redistribution from the state to the local level. For we all know that the congregations are more rational in spending government money. On the other hand, I note that the share of public consumption in gross social product is still too high. It will be necessary to stop the country's continued indebtedness, reduce red tape and increase the efficiency of public administration. Since the revenue of the State budget is limited, more attention should be paid to the expenditure part of the budget, in particular by reducing public spending in all areas. It is also necessary to introduce elements in public administration that have long been known for the performance of private sector operators. The establishment of cost-benefit analysis is also more than necessary in public administration, of course in a specific way. In particular, the findings of these analyses should be taken into account in practice. We must also encourage a management approach to governance in public administration. Therefore, I think it is very important that we talk and discuss these areas today, and it is even more important that we be able to listen to each other and draw out those good suggestions that would help us from the situation we are in, whether we belong to a coalition or to the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u48	Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u49	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall. As my colleague has already said, the Members of our Group will confirm the Government's proposed actions, as we consider them to be good guidelines for the development of further binding acts, whose implementation will or should contribute to the resolution of the consequences of the economic crisis. The reason that I used the conditioner on this site is only one, namely the positive effects on the elimination of these consequences, we will only be able to speak if the proposals for acts are well-prepared and geared towards the well-being of citizens and citizens and thus the entire Republic of Slovenia. So far, the government has not introduced us to any drafts or work materials. Exceptions are the proposals to the law that we are considering at this meeting. If these proposals to the law follow the objective to which they are intended, there is, in my opinion, no fear of being confirmed by the coalition or by the opposition, but we will assess the appropriateness and prudence of each proposed solution separately. At this point, there is still no known scale of change in the pension system, which is also one of the government's structural measures. Although we are familiar with some of the guidelines, we are no longer aware of them. We know that the dependence on payments and payments in this system is essential due to the change in the age structure of the population. However, we must ensure that adequate pensions are provided. The measures to achieve modernisation of the pension system are different. What choice will be formulated and sent to the National Assembly, but is not yet known. Members of our Group know that solidarity and transparency of the pension system must be invested, as it can be ensured by the exclusion of rights of a social nature. This would clean up the pension allowance and thus ensure greater transparency and, above all, the sustainability of the pension system. It is also important to change the long-term care and healthcare system, as well as health insurance, which is the same as mentioned in the pension scheme already, which will be closely monitored in the DeSUS Group by the Member States as to how these changes will be implemented into specific legislative proposals. Once again, if these proposals go forward and follow the measures that we are familiar with today, in the direction of our efforts, our Group of Members will, of course, support them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u50	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u51	Your Honors are here! I'll be brief. For in long speeches there is less productive and concrete explanation. It's more about populism. The essence has already been stated by colleague Barovic in the presentation of the parliamentary group. I don't know, I see no reason not to believe in the government's proposed exit strategy. I think it is pointless to pre-critify a programme that is certainly well-intentioned. Let us wait for the proposals to be implemented, for only then will we determine whether the matter has been set well and where the weaknesses are. In fact, this is a long-term program and needs to be launched at this point. There will be time for controversy, action needs to be taken immediately and now. What is good in the proposals will surely be caught and maintained. In order to remedy the weakness, I hope that there will also be enough room for proposals from the opposition, which are always well-meaning, which are rarely taken into account - if the Government wants us to dig up from the crisis, as the President of the Government has stressed, this must be our joint project, the project of all representatives of the people in this country, and that is the only solution for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u52	Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u53	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In front of us is the Slovenian exit strategy for the period 2010 2013 which, according to its founders, is a ministerial assembly, designed as a combination of economic policy measures for structural change and institutional adjustments. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia aims to promote economic activity through this strategy, to ensure a gradual elimination of macroeconomic imbalances and, taking into account the social and environmental aspects of development, to increase economic growth. Today, the President of the largest opposition party said that it was just another series of declaration documents proposed by the Government. However, I would like to point out that from November 2008 to November 2009, only the Government has adopted 1,258 regulations, namely 159 from the powers of the National Assembly, 389 from the powers of the Government and 710 from the powers of the ministries. I would hardly agree that it was just a declaration document. In addition, last year, the Government and the National Assembly adopted as many as two budget rebalances for 2009, with 60 counter-crisis and austerity measures under the auspices of the so-called group of crisis ministers dedicated to the financial sector, the economy and the population. Measures have been taken to help preserve many jobs and to provide assistance to the socially weak. In addition, the Government and the National Assembly adopted budgets for 2010 and 2011. It means a series of measures that are far from being declared. The fact is, at least after some optimistic indicators and forecasts, the economic and financial crisis shows the first signs of recovery. That is why, as has already been said today, the European Union countries are accelerating their plans for a way out of the crisis. It is commendable that one of the first countries of the European Union to draw up the so-called strategy is Slovenia. As soon as the government strategy was adopted, it was particularly highlighted that one of its key tasks is to ensure that short-term anti-crisis measures are consistent with the objectives of long-term structural changes. By promoting creativity and innovation, the government will ensure the transition to a competitive, social and environmental responsible, knowledge-based economy and, consequently, enable quality of life. In the area of economic policy, it is certainly the first task to consolidate public finances and, by fiscal rule, to limit the expenditure of the State budget to 2013 at the 2009 level. According to the Ministry of Finance, this year's budget deficit will be 5% of GDP and the country's general sector deficit will be 5.4%. Of course, the European Commission requires all countries of the European Monetary Union to respect the Stability and Growth Pact, and Slovenia must also reduce the surplus deficit to below 3% of GDP by 2013. These savings will not be small, as 400 million euros will have to be saved at the annual level. How difficult it will be to implement the Slovenian exit strategy, says already that structural adjustments will take place in four areas over the next few years, these being the necessary institutional adjustments in the management of public institutions, the promotion of entrepreneurship, the competitiveness and transparency of the labour market, the adaptation to transport and energy infrastructure for an effective environmental and climate policy and the adaptation of the social security system of the pension system and health care. Unfortunately, all forecasts show that, despite economic growth, the rate of unemployment will continue to increase and that the rapid withdrawal of state measures in this area would be a step in the wrong direction. Anti-crisis measures should therefore be maintained until there are clear signs of permanent recovery. It is the measure of partial subsidisation of shorter working hours and subsidisation of the salaries of workers sent on hold that has kept thousands of jobs per company. This is precisely why one of the key tasks of getting out of the crisis is, in particular, creating new jobs. The exit strategy contains a series of measures that can help. I'm not going down to a number of other areas. I will touch only one segment, this is the area of adaptation to transport and energy infrastructure with effective environmental and climate policy. It is commendable that there is also a measure to make transport and energy infrastructure more efficient and faster into space and to make European funds more efficient and to develop the rail system. Unfortunately, however, the Slovenian exit strategy for the period 2010 to 2013 has completely overlooked investments in the so-called development axes. Nowhere is there a spirit, not a hearing about investments in third, third, and fourth development axis. The fact is that we urgently need these development axes. In my view, they should be an integral part of the exit strategy from the crisis. Why? The fact is that much of Slovenia has become more accessible for the construction of the highway cross. There has been a concentration of economic operators, concentration of knowledge and residence. Other parts of Slovenia, to list some of them, North Primorska, Koroška, Kočevska, Kozjanska and Obsotelje and Bela Krajina, are permanently losing development potential because of the poorer transport connections, so developmental problems have already occurred in these environments. From these provinces there is a significant outflow of personnel, and the growth or long-term operation of major breakthrough companies in these provinces is more exceptional than the rule. The problem is also in housing, as people are increasingly moving to larger cities. Development axes, regional and local development issues along these development axes. Look, the government was just visiting Kočevska and White Krajina. What was the first and main message of this visit? The fact that traffic is moving away from the highway, from the centre of the country, that it has catastrophic state-owned road infrastructure, which is one of the main elements of the decline in development, for a large number of unemployed and so on. And what followed? The fact that the 3rd, 3rd and 4th development axes in the output strategy are not to be observed. That all the landscapes and peripheral areas that I had previously counted, not to say gravely, were almost written off. Modern transport infrastructure is a prerequisite for the development of these areas. The entire state summit was held last September at a state celebration in Kobarid, northern Primorska. All those who arrived on track 4 of the development axis were indignant about the impossible road infrastructure, including the President of the Republic. Some provinces will not be helped by the planned modernisation of the Slovenian Railways, since there is no railway or construction envisaged. This is particularly true for the area of the 4th development axis. The first railway station in Logatco in Idria and Church is located on the Soča Bridge, while the second one is 70 km of railway. For successful companies in the Idrian and Church Industrial Pool, for Kolektor, for Hidria, for Eto, for companies in Tolmin, for the development of tourism in Posoča, the modernisation of road infrastructure is a first priority. As a result, development axes must also be an integral part of the so-called exit strategy from today's crisis. I do not agree with the reallocation of European funds, which were approved for development axis projects by a specific decision of the European Council of 189 million euros, and that these projects are not in the exit strategy. This must be corrected by the government, and this is my main focus on the exit strategy. Otherwise, as we say, I support Slovenia's exit strategy for the period 2010-2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u54	Mr. Tinker Bell, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u55	Your Honor! Earlier, when I listened to Mr Gaspari, I had a feeling at times that we had changed roles and that we had been criticised in the opposition because we had not proposed good solutions. However, with very great effort and with the increase of expectations, this government child was finally born, who was given the resounding name "Output Strategy". This is another in a series of non-operational documents where the achievement of the objectives cannot be measured. Obviously, this document represents a kind of extreme range of government in responding to both the short-term and long-term challenges facing Slovenia. In addition to a document that is largely of a declarant nature, what is most concerned is the gap between words and actions. In this government, there was never a problem with big words, great rhetoric, and there was a lack of action. There have been quite a few cases in the last year and allow me to remind you of only some of them that also relate to this document that we have today under consideration. It is not long before the prime minister declared that 50% of the public sector employees are too many. Half of the over-employed and in the Output Strategy is a very optimistic forecast that this employment will be reduced by one percentage point at the annual level. So it would take 49 years for this government to make its prime minister's announcement. Another issue on which there is much talk is also debt, which is certainly one of the key problems that Slovenia will face not only during this period but also during the coming governments, and where this problem cannot be solved without more creation. It was interesting today to listen to Mr Gaspari, an expert who had led Banka Slovenije, a central bank, during the period when the debt of the population and the economy increased enormously. During the same period, Mr Janša was in charge of the government, and during that period the indebtedness of the State, the public part of the country, decreased significantly from 28% to around 23% of the gross domestic product. It was interesting to listen to an expert today also because he said that he was a major part of the problem of congregation debt. Interesting. 450 million is the total debt of all Slovene municipalities, with the country's cumulative indebtedness increased by more than €6 billion within a year, and half of those 450 million are the debt of the Municipality of Ljubljana. But this, in Mr Gaspari's view, is a problem. It was also interesting to hear these words because, during the period when Mr Gaspari was in charge of Banka Slovenije, Slovenia lost some EUR 10 million on the bonds of the failed Lehmann Brothers. And it is interesting to listen to these words because it feels like there are strong words in this area too, but they will lack action. But the consequences will be felt and felt every day by all Slovenians and Slovenians. The declarant promotion of less developed areas disintegrates as we look at concrete measures. At the declarant level, we listened to the big words of the National Assembly when we adopted the law on development assistance to Pomure. Which of this law has been implemented to this day, I ask you. Except for a new job or a few new jobs for some officials? Nothing. One of the projects which should be the basic backbone of this law, which is intended to create new jobs, development centre or economic centre of OKO Pomurje, is proposed to delete among the resolution projects. Of the nine envisaged economic centres, the aim of which was precisely to strengthen regional potentials across regions in such a way as to preserve knowledge and create new jobs throughout the country, at least five of the nine are proposed to be deleted. At least five. Not to mention this problem, which my predecessor has already discussed, the deletion of the project to modernise the state road network by priority development axes, which speak of 3, 3A. and the 4th Development Axis, where it is an important project, the infrastructure connection of Slovenia, thus allowing people to have equal opportunities for their development and to have access to jobs and others. This project is envisaged to delete from the resolution where 35 projects are listed and 13 or a third is envisaged to be deleted following the proposal for this exit strategy. This I do not think is a good promise and speak of the fact that the direction of this Government regarding the measures that should be taken immediately to get out of the crisis is not very clear. With regard to European funds, sufficient information is provided that this government planned a surplus, a net financial impact in 2009, of €360 million and a few million, was realised in the amount of €150 million and several million. Thus, half less than was planned during the period when all the routes had been lost and when it was only necessary to make use of the existing mechanisms, it was simplified to publish a tender that was not available in 2009. Certainly Slovenia, not only because of the situation it is in, but because of its further rapid development it needs changes, which we like to call strategic changes. But, of course, such changes require vision and trust in the second type. Unfortunately, I believe that neither one nor the other can be ensured at this time, because trust in the Government, which is supposed to initiate and implement these changes, and we know that the lowest point of confidence in the public has been measured since Slovenia became a single country. How should the public trust in the Government that it will be able to make some strategic changes and adopt measures that would constitute some kind of development breakthrough if within a year it was not able to solve one very simple problem called falcon. This is where all the art ends. And all the words that are written in many documents by the copy-paste system lose all weight. The economy, which is the only one able to drive both our society and our crisis country, needs immediate measures to improve liquidity, to relieve the cost of work, to take investment impulse measures if it wants to remain in domestic and foreign markets. Only the existence and development of our economy can ensure new jobs, lower unemployment and higher tax revenues. The exit strategy, which does not have incentive tax measures for greater investment and greater employment, will only become a written declaration on paper. Unfortunately, this strategy is not based on the concept that job creation with greater competitiveness, greater added value, greater economic growth and greater human well-being is the basic assumption of the strategy, which is a strategy that Slovenia could come out of crisis situations. And this is also the fundamental conceptual difference between what we proposed a long time ago in the Slovenian Democratic Party and what we have on the table today. With weakened governments, ministers dealing with themselves and with their own affairs, there is a high likelihood that Slovenia is, unfortunately, getting closer to the Greek script. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u56	The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u57	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister and Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I have already indicated in the opinion of the Group in which we support this document, which is currently under consideration, in which we question the correctness of the measures and which things we miss and also propose appropriate guidelines for individual chapters. Therefore, I will only try to draw attention to some parts of the document myself. So I would say that in the chapter - increasing employment, I think that in this situation there is only a pious desire, that it is more about godly desires than it is for the actual purpose of creating new jobs and increasing employment with, of course, reducing employment in the public sector. For this surplus, it is imperative to create conditions in the economy and similar activities. Further, I think we expect too much from revenue in the coming years. We expect in this document that these revenues will increase in the state budget, but they certainly will not. As I pointed out earlier in the report, in the opinion of the SLS Group, we expect a greater reduction in expenditure mainly in this public sector. I would like to make a few more suggestions for thinking, which I think are certain will be necessary in the future. First of all, education is certainly necessary to overcome this structural unemployment, and fundamental changes are needed in the structure of education, secondary and higher education. We still educate too many social profiles, without real restrictions on entry, while in the higher and higher education system we have many restrictions on entry where real needs are significantly greater. The second thing that seems important to me, which I have already tried to do with my parliamentary questions, not so much to draw attention to, is the problem that is currently extremely pressing in Slovenia. It's part of an economy called construction. Construction is certainly one of the key indicators of the economic situation. In the conjuncture, construction prospers and vice versa. At the time of the crisis, this sector is marked by an average loss, a fall in sales, forgiveness, bankruptcy. Construction is certainly an indicator of the economic situation, both in the case of conjuncture and in the case of recession, and shows the direction for other activities. Certainly, one of the measures, one of the incentives, should be that all these large stocks currently held by the construction industry in the area of housing, should provide appropriate incentives for the State and the municipalities to collect their dwellings in some way, to be interested in the purchase of these apartments and to strengthen this rental system of dwellings, which has been virtually destroyed since 1990 and 1992. This would certainly solve a number of housing problems mainly for young families and, on the other hand, give a great boost to this extremely important part of our economy. And I'd look at the third thing. These are investments in development axes. Even today, colleagues on one side and on the other side have repeatedly indicated this problem. Certainly not only in this document, but not in practice, it is not, I think the whole matter is focused on not having them in the years to come. And this has already been shown mainly in the last period of one year, when virtually all placement activities in the area of the preparation of relevant documents have, in other words, stopped. I have to be objective, the previous term has been too slow, and now, I have a feeling, they're completely dead. Personally, I expect much more from the new Minister of Environment and Space, which we will certainly confirm or appoint today at this meeting. I think that many parts of Slovenia expect this from us that these parts of Slovenia, which are literally lagged behind in development, get a new development impulse. Finally, let me repeat what I said in the conclusion in the opinion of the Group of Members. I expect specific implementing documents, this is just one way, I expect specific implementing documents with the scheduled timetable and proper monitoring of their effects. That seems particularly important to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u58	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u59	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday I wondered, and also today, why so much suddenness and nervousness, which appears through this criticism and this negative charge to the current government. I even heard about the early elections yesterday. You always have a chance, 46 Members can give you your mandate back and we have early elections if that's what you want. But today I would like to take as a starting point the criticism of this document of the exit strategy, where the leader of the largest opposition party has already identified it as a declaration document in his opening act, then his fellow Member, that it is an inoperable document, that it is a non-dynamic approach, that the Government is not dynamic and recommends more dynamic to this government and to these ministers, that it represents a major part of the problems in solving this crisis and of this exit from this crisis by the Government and that the Government is not part of these solutions and so on. It is some psychoanalysis that we are already used to by the biggest opposition party, so I will also try one quantitative analysis of its praise this year, what it has proposed and how good laws, proposals that are operational, are feasible to this government, to which it has such a negative relationship. I will concentrate on the 45 laws proposed this past year by this current so effective opposition. Of these 45 laws there were 12 laws, where there was only one article for the amendment. Only one law had 18 articles that changed, or out of 45 there were 5 laws that had more than 10 articles. But this isn't the end of the story. When it comes to these 45 laws, of these 45, general debates were proposed at 35, the first consideration of these laws is said to be the case. And I said that almost half of these proposed laws had one or two or at most three articles of amendment. This is your engagement, these are your concrete, implemented, rich, monitoring proposals for laws, this is your operationality. And I think you need to think for yourself about this and see for yourself the dynamics of the constructive opposition up to the present government. Now let me go on the proposal for an exit strategy. I support the Government's definition that, despite a large reduction in public financial revenues in the medium term, it will not build consolidation on tax increases. This is a significant difference from the proposals that the opposition boasts that it has proposed to this government or to this coalition in the first, second and third packages. Only that the fiscal consolidation strategy is implemented on the expenditure side remains. This definition is the only one that makes sense in these circumstances, as additional taxation would further affect the already fragile economy. I hope, indeed, that the Government will insist on this strategy to the end and that it will not deviate from this strategy, which is enshrined in this document. It is high time that the Government - and this is part of my positive, constructive criticism - assumes responsibility and does what it think is right, and insists to the end. I myself would have two proposals in two areas, with the implementation of which, I believe, the strategy could be upgraded and help with what I hear from opposition types more often than not, the opening of new jobs. The first is, as stated in the exit strategy, that in addition to agriculture, forestry is one of the key areas in the economic recovery strategy under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The proposed exit strategy also sets out the objective of promoting the competitiveness of forestry production, in particular by focusing on higher product quality, higher added value, higher productivity, innovation, with a view to increasing market share at home and abroad. Among these objectives, the Ministry of Agriculture has also stated that it aims to promote the restoration and care of forests. There's just nothing to add to that. I believe, however, that one of the important obstacles or factors that have not yet been achieved effectively is the fact that we do not want to learn anything or to summarize ourselves after some of the solutions that apply in neighbouring countries. For example, Austria and Italy. I therefore propose that, in implementing these objectives and these concrete steps, we adopt a law or a regulation prohibiting the export of refrigeration outside the country of Slovenia. As is the case in Italy and Austria. This will result in the re-launching of a number of jobs that have once been in Slovenia and some saws and these production plants will be restored with minimal investments of funds. This feeling of mine, when I show up in Bauhaus, always gives me the impression that when I buy a wall covering, this wall covering is made of spruce that was cut in the nomadic forests or at the Pluka. And another area, which is enshrined in the strategy, was written down by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. The Ministry notes in this strategy that the existing system of social transfers allows for significant abuses and anomalies and does not allow people to be adequately stimulated for work reactivation. That's totally true. We've been figuring that out for a while, a couple of years. This conclusion is intended to be overturned by the amendment of the law on the enforcement of rights from public finances, also by establishing a so-called single entry point for the enforcement of social transfers. I believe it is high time to establish this point where it will be possible to verify and determine the material situation of either individual or individual families at any time. However, I also believe that this is not enough and that the Centre for Social Work is not the only or only single entry point in the social rights system, because there are several types of abuses in the use of public budget funds and there are several areas, not only in the enforcement of so-called social transfers. This is a whole range of options and rights that individuals can exercise from so-called public funds or budgets. That is why, of course, I think it would be good to establish this point where all revenues, the state of movable and immovable property of an individual and individual family would be recorded. All those services that decide on the basis of applicable positive legislation and, last but not least, share the resources and obligations set out therein, so they share these public funds so that they have the opportunity to take a look at this common point in the material situation of the individual and of the individual family.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u60	Mr. Kumer, allow me just one thing. There is a delegation of the Republic of Albania on the balcony. I'd say hello on behalf of all of you! [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u61	This common point would also allow for the obligation that some individuals or families have, and not least, to give an example to the tax administration, to be able to recover things from these individuals on the basis of this. Therefore, I propose that this common point is that point which ensures the full material position of an individual of the family, the State, when an individual or individual family exercises its right, must state its material situation. This should be a standard that will apply to all citizens and all groups in Slovenia. And this should be ensured by the state.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u62	Mr Dejan Levanič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u63	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. The exit strategy, in my opinion, answers specifically the question of what we want and where we are going in the future. Many times in this Chamber, I miss the answer to this question, or at least we wonder if we know a concrete vision, direction, path. This is what the Government has now prepared, placed on the table in front of Members and Members, and this is the answer to the question of what direction we intend to take in the future. On the other hand, it will take a lot of effort, coordination, patience to make this happen. It is important, however, that we do not take certain measures simply ad hoc, without some concrete calculations, but that we have a clear picture of what is necessary, not only that we survive the crisis, but that we come out of this crisis as strongly as possible. With the exit strategy ahead of us, we have this opportunity. I hope we make the most of it. Of course, I will support the exit strategy myself. The opposition is normally critical in the proposals coming from the government, and at the end of the day it is also, after all, more heads know more. I miss only a little more honesty in proposing additional measures, which, even by the opposition, do not come with a certain period of time, are not specific enough, but, above all, do not point to where to take financial resources for such measures. Above all, it is necessary to raise some awareness in all of us that we are operating within the framework of the financial resources available to us in the budget and that in the past the Government has adopted many concrete solutions that will enable the implementation of concrete laws that will implement the exit strategy. All the measures proposed by the Government last year were based on some real basis. They have shown results and helped stabilise public finances, which, after all, is also very important at some point. This is proof that the government is doing well. I'm so much more confident about this because with an exit strategy, he knows what he wants to do in the future. He has a plan that is ambitious, and we all know that it is measures that are not necessarily desirable, but are necessary to get through these moments as much as possible and finally set up such a system so that all the mistakes that have somehow accumulated in the past will fall under the carpet so that they will no longer be repeated. And the opposition's statement at this point that there are too few concrete measures covered by the exit strategy is unfortunately not in place. In particular, because it is a strategy, it is a direction that will be followed by concrete laws and will also be followed by the National Assembly. The Minister for Development of Gaspari made that clear. 25 specific laws that will implement the exit strategy by the month of October. This is an ambitious plan, and the government must have as much support in its work as possible. It is important, however, to insist on implementing these laws so that we can implement this exit strategy. He's holding something else. We all probably agree that the government is running the country in very difficult times. Let us leave the arguments once and for all on the side of who is to blame and in what state, for example, we took over the country when we came into power. The fact is, the country has not been in the best shape, but there is no time to clean up now. It's time to step forward. We need to link all those short-term economic measures that have already been implemented and already covered by certain legislative acts with all those structural changes that will allow some further development. And as more heads know more, I would like to take this opportunity to give the Government three concrete initiatives that have somehow developed with talks with voters and those who are working on the ground and who feel this financial crisis may be a little more realistic. First of all, it's definitely black work. The craftsmen themselves find that this is a major problem. It is said that 30% of the assets remaining on the market and that a country with regulation could, by gradually reducing or at least by establishing some control over work in black, contribute to the flow of more financial resources into the state budget, which would ultimately enable the State to obtain funds which must otherwise be waived or otherwise acquired. The very important comments made by craftsmen and all those who observe black work come mainly in the sense that all those who work by letter of law and issue bills are not as competitive as those who work in black, because of course they do not need to do so and can do anything else. And in some country that hasn't been able to handle it all these years, there can't be a rule. If we have laws, then this needs to be handled as best as possible, to come across the craftsmen and all those who feel these consequences much more. The next initiative is the regulation of the housing problem. In Slovenia we have quite a few needs for empty apartments. We have many young families with a unresolved housing problem, and in the end, we have quite a few options to solve this matter. Some time ago, Members of the Social Democrats took the initiative of the Government to release empty apartments that are within different ministries and are not in use, which were otherwise intended for human resources housing. Some of these apartments have been transferred to the Housing Fund, and I hope there will be more in the future. In Slovenia, we also have a situation where construction companies face a major crisis at some point, they have no jobs, and on the other hand they have a lot of investment, and buildings, including empty apartments, and their prices are still above normal prices. I am talking about housing, which, despite the crisis today, holds the price per square metre of about EUR 2 to 3,000, which is certainly too much for a young family that is barely starting their own lives, whatever the hell they imagine to get to their own apartment. Therefore, it is possible for the State to consider offering construction companies, say, 900 euros per square metre, buying out empty apartments, setting up a housing problem, transferring empty dwellings to the Housing Fund, establishing a rental real estate market that will allow all those who would like to obtain the first apartment to do so, not after market rents, but after non-profit rentals, which will, of course, make it easier for young families to access these apartments. This is one of the options, I don't see any other options for solving construction companies with some reprogrammed loans or financial injections. This is a specific matter, so let's help them buy their apartments. But not at the market price, two, three thousand euros per square meter, but after nine hundred euros, and I believe they will still earn, given how much work they have invested in this project. And the third initiative is an active employment policy. Within the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, many measures have been taken that are already in operation, and many jobs have been retained. The challenge for this year, and probably the next year, remains unemployment, everything needs to be focused on finding new opportunities to deal with it. With minimum wage, we are already raising the standard of employment slightly, with amendments to the Income Law coming to employers, and a fair system must be made between those who are employed for an indefinite period of time and those who are employed for an indefinite period of time. The system is not fair, many people, or all people who are employed indefinitely, have the right to retirement, can obtain long-term credit. On the other hand, people who are employed for a certain period of time do not have these options, so this must be taken into account in the framework of the legislation being drawn up and, above all, in the flexible labour market. The ministry has already done a large part of the task in this area, and an active approach is important. I have great confidence in the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, which is already in the past, when measures have somehow been put out or measures have been proposed to put out the situation in Slovenia, in order to take a step forward now as far as active employment policy is concerned. And most importantly, if we succeed within the twenty-five laws that will be proposed by the month of October, to propose all that is contained in the exit strategy then I think we are on the right track and just insist that we do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u64	Mr. Rado Likar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u65	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. I am very welcome to you. A document such as the Slovenian exit strategy is certainly necessary and, of course, we also looked forward to the Slovenian government's activities in this regard. It is precisely because of the government's passiveness and delays in this area that the SDS Group has already tabled its proposal for anti-crisis measures, whose red thread was to stop the growth of unemployment or the trend to reverse the decline, to further provide better conditions for setting up and growth especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and to consolidate public finances and reduce public spending. In our view, however, a new job must be put first. We believe and argue that the exit from the crisis is crucial for businesses, because only these can create new quality jobs and are given particular attention in terms of tax burden. Real entrepreneurs will be able to channel their own resources into development, in a much better way and more rationally than national bureaucracy through the allocation of resources from the state budget. Of course, the proposal did not receive the necessary support to make it more appropriate, more comprehensive and systematicly resolved with the exit strategy. The exit strategy, as it says, aims to achieve long-term sustainable economic growth through economic policy measures, structural measures and institutional adjustments. However, the guide to establishing such measures is the consolidation of public finances. We must all agree and support this work. These goals and guidelines should be pursued by every serious government and, if this is recorded in the strategy, O. K., so much better. There is a lot of writing in this document, and it would be hard just to argue with it. The concept of "strategy" itself means just some direction, without some specific time-limits, in particular with regard to short-term measures. And this very time-definition is one of the components that we are missing in this document. In the situation as we are, in my view, this time-limit for the implementation of the measures is certainly necessary. The government has already prepared packages of anti-crisis measures, such as the Law on Partial Full-time Grants and the Guarantee Scheme. In the SDS Group, we have pointed out that it would be more reasonable to use these funds to create new jobs or to devote them to the tax burden on businesses, because they are the only ones who create the added value that the country can then use to increase the social security of citizens through the taxes collected. I allow the possibility that I am in error, but I hope that this is not the case, but I am not in agreement with talking about savings in public administration, and on the other hand we are witnessing a wasteful use of funds for, say, renting the premises of public authorities, such as huge rents for the premises of the Kosovo Anti-Corruption Commission, for the premises of the newly established National Investigation Office and the premises of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In our view, the expenditure of the state administration should be reduced more radically if we are to be successful in the fight against the crisis. We are all united that we must find a way out of this crisis as soon as possible, because in the opposite case we will be in a situation like today's Greece. We have the same goal, several different paths. Otherwise, this government is responsible for how it will act and for what the results will be. In the end, I would just like to ask if maybe the government has a plan B in place if things from this strategy were not to be "received" as they were in the past, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u66	Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u67	Dear President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Indeed, there is an increasing number of unemployed, unrest in Europe, an uncompetitive economy. It's an alarm sign. It's time to sober up and wrinkle the species. So the joke is over and the joke is over in Slovenia. We also have the exit strategy of the Republic of Slovenia 2010-2013 in front of us today on this and many other facts. This is a comprehensive document that presents us with a set of strategic objectives and their imperative is, for the first time, the stabilisation of public finances. There has been a lot of talk, which is why I will not list individual divisions; an increase in the international competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The only thing I would say in this indent is that there is a lot of work to be done for each job. Every job is important, especially for the person who is or is supposed to be occupied, because it means survival for her. Socially related and for [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Society, I won't say much about this indent either, because there was much to be said. [[...]] I appreciate that the Government should be commended on the basis of the preparation of the exit strategy. Where are we now, where are we going? Legislation needs to be drawn up. We have heard from the European Minister that things are being prepared and will come to the table every month. All the sub-legislative acts necessary for this exit strategy must be prepared. But most importantly, as we all stress now, implementation. It is encouraging that there is considerable support in this or this strategy. I have seen support from economists, of course, especially those who do not have a lot of employees with the lowest wage. But everyone else understood that a great deal of restructuring efforts needed to be made. So that word is on the table every day. I am also surprised that it was expressed quite positive by the opposition. A little less today. But to implement the exit strategy we need to find consensus in the Republic of Slovenia. The public expects us to find a common path in Parliament too, taking into account any positive proposal from each of us. Not just the positions or the opposition. But I haven't heard what I'm trying to say today. Errors, incorrect decisions from the past are accumulated all the time and will have to be paid as soon as possible. What do I think? Manager's takeovers. Who were the braves, where did it start? Failure to implement the reforms already prepared by the former government, the pre-election mints, who have been estimated at around €800 million, but I do not want to say and translate the blame into a previous government, not even a previous government, but at least a government that has been three mandates back. However, we must be aware that at this point we are all jointly responsible for the implementation of this record. In the long run, no one will be able to get away with this responsibility, nor will those who today feel that they are without responsibility. We see and have solutions, only together can we save them and it is time to act. I'll support the strategy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u68	The word is "ma'am mag." Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. Your Honors are here! First of all, thank the Government for those proposals for a strategy that is geared towards sustainable growth, preserving and creating new jobs, greater social justice and inclusion. However, the measures contained in the strategy require caution and, of course, social dialogue. Without the support of all social strata, there will be no successful exit from the crisis. Representatives of employees, pensioners and patients have not yet been included in the discussion on the strategy, although it is these who should bear the greatest burden of the proposed structural reform measures. That's not good. There should be no proposals in the strategy to take us out of the crisis that remind us of Super Hik from Alan Ford. There should be no measures that cannot contribute to the exit from the crisis. This is a proposal for a measure that would exempt the most tangible part of payments for health and social contributions. This would create a hole in the social and health treasury amounting to EUR 235 million, which should be covered by new funds. The so-called "rich cap" in the medical contribution is justified by the fact that the costs of treatment are to be reduced upstream. The next reason would now be the criminal burden of the health - rich. However, none of these arguments apply. The costs of treatment covered by compulsory and supplementary health insurance are not limited. It is also not true that the assets in Slovenia are overburdened by health contributions. The World Health Organization has classified Slovenia as the least just state according to the fairness of health funding. The less wealthy and the poor pay a significantly higher share of their income after deducting the most vital cost of living than the more profitable. Forgivement for the work of social contributions to the most wealthy means less solidarity and less just society. There is no evidence to suggest in the strategy that more paid are also more productive. We know a lot of extremely well-paid people who are innovative in questionable ways that benefit most of them. They have also brought us into this economic crisis. The justification for such a measure is lacking in the strategy. For example, it is not said that the average tax margin in Slovenia is approximately the same as the average tax margin in the EU 15 countries, that it is lower than in the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary and similar in many of the most developed countries of the European Union. Many things that benefit the wealthy are not good for economic growth and for the well-being of the people. There is a lot of scientific evidence that investing in people when it comes to health, education and the like brings economic growth in addition to human well-being. There is also evidence that privatisation and commercialisation of these areas of activity bring benefits to the most influential and wealthy individuals and the negative effects on accessibility to public services, cause more expensive public services and affect economic growth and the well-being of people. Therefore, it is not appropriate to use the funds obtained by a legitimate expansion of the basis for contributions to cover the "social cap" of the most wealthy. These funds should aim at filling the current unacceptable gap in the social and health security system of the population. For the greater involvement of people in society, economic breakthroughs are not possible with hungry, poor and sick citizens and citizens, on the one hand, and a narrow elite, on the other. Therefore, the Government should seriously consider proposals in both key health laws that bring privatisation, commercialisation of health activities and further deprivation of compulsory health insurance rights. How many more people could afford hospital operations if they paid hotel services to a hospital, food and accommodation, except for the 47 thousand poorest people the country should pay for? Who else could afford treatment and rehabilitation if the family had to pay 60% of the treatment costs when they were injured by skiing? The Government should also think carefully about the proposal to transform public institutions and public funds into legal forms, as provided for by the Company Act. The introduction of market mechanisms into public institutions is a direct way to privatise these institutions. The effects are known. Why should we repeat mistakes in Slovenia that have been known in the world for at least 15 years? Consideration should be given to the use of newer public sector management theories, which are qualitatively completely different from the market forms or entrepreneurship principles of the private sector that are found among the proposals in the strategy. I therefore hope that the Government will translate into the laws of those proposals in the strategy, which, in particular, benefit the narrow elites and capitals, which reduce solidarity, which benefit only the most wealthy, who would only increase poverty, put the masses of people in health and social distress and deepened the crisis further in the direction of the social crisis. The reduction of health or social rights would also not help with higher wages and pensions. However, with most of the other proposals of the strategy, I can only agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u70	Mr. Peter Verlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u71	Thank you very much. If I look only at the area of transport and the exit strategy, then I can say nothing new, because all that is written in the exit strategy has been promised for a long time. And the first is this, and now I'm going to say it's a famous law on putting transport infrastructure into a space that the government has already promised beyond the exit strategy, but it's not. Today, it is re-written in the exit strategy as one that will miraculously accelerate the exit of transport from the crisis by reducing the placement procedures in space. While the law, which should be adopted by the end of 2009, should practically already be written, then certainly the preparers, the Government certainly knows how much these procedures could be reduced. This exit strategy does not contain this, but it could be. In order for all of these to be placed in the premises not in 2013, as they explained last time on the Committee on Environment and Space, the representatives of the Ministry, but perhaps a year or two earlier. This is not written anywhere, this is not in the exit strategy, this is not in this law as part of the exit strategy. The exit strategy is obviously due to the removal of these projects from the resolution on national development projects in order to delete the additional motorway programme. Is that the way out of the crisis? However, when we proposed a law on the priority construction of railway sections and sections of public roads, you objected. Now that's deleted. It follows that, in fact, in the exit strategy, transport infrastructure has no place in the development axes. And that is actually very well said by Mr Bevk alone. And that's the government's criticism, even of the coalition kind. I'm hoping you can fix this. Even if I go further: this document on the exit strategy states that the development of railway infrastructure will be a priority for railway sections to be built only where the added value of projects will be demonstrated. Look, I think students already know that transport infrastructure is very difficult to demonstrate economic eligibility, given purely economic parameters. By not even knowing what is meant by adding value here, because it doesn't explain itself. But I can now assure you that no railway project, including the European one, shows any additional and added value. What does that mean? That we're not even gonna build it? No, of course not. It's embarrassingly written. I suggest we get the government to fix this right away. We need the rail infrastructure. But if you are only looking for added value according to economic criteria, then here again we are also deleting all railway projects from this exit strategy. However, it is very interesting that the exit strategy does not describe a logistics platform anywhere. This was a sentence both of them, probably the authors who are currently in high office, one is Minister, the other is Secretary of State Vlačič and Jakomin, who spoke in Slovenia as a logistics platform, and there is no logistics platform in the output strategy. Where is he? She's not here. You have deleted the developmental road axes, proposed removal from the resolution on national development projects, construction of railways is only those that will show added value, the logistics platform is not mentioned at all, but it is mentioned, and this is very good, and I think this is not part of the exit strategy at all, and this is nicely written with the wrapped lines, the breakdown of Slovenian railways: the sale of goods to foreigners, this is written, you wrote, because you want to align with the reorganisation of Slovenian railways with the first package of the European Directive, while today it is announced that the first package is returned to the sale of freight transport, which is the only profitable, to foreigners, infrastructure and passenger transport, and most likely to remain on the shoulders of taxpayers and also to the continuation, not only temporarily on hold today 1000, but only for permanent purposes. Not just 1,000, maybe even more. From this point of view, I think that we should think very carefully in the Government, when, as one of the steps taken to get out of the strategy, we are thus engaged in the development of transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u72	Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u73	Thank you very much. It would be a shame to lose the chance of a good crisis. This slightly cynical pragmatically realistic sentence has been a red thread of planning since the beginning of the perception of the scale of the current financial crisis, not so much interventional, but mainly structural changes that need to help individual countries get out of the crisis and start again. The proposed exit strategy seeks to define exactly this: how best to shape those reforms, those structural reforms that will change not only our economy, but also our society, so that we can be sustainablely successful. So that we don't recharge the balloon that's going to do it again sooner or later. As part of these structural changes, we need to continue on the path of a dynamic labour market, and in particular to establish a fairer relationship between those working in the private sector and those working in the public sector. The feeling that the latter are too much on the shoulders of the first, rather than supporting them, is sometimes, unfortunately, justified. In addition, this exit strategy seeks to highlight the importance of sustainable economic and social development, a development that will further support itself every year, but not every year increasingly strains the thread to do so again. A different concept of wealth and a different concept of success is needed in one way or another in our entire society. This crisis, I think, has sobered us well here - what it means to be successful, what it means to grow and what it means to be puffed up. Blowing up or growing up, well, that's a major difference. In this context, I think it is an ambition to stick to the fiscal rule, to limit spending, to aim at saving where possible, and at the same time to really define what we want to develop, and what we want to invest in, from what we might like, but it is not certain that it will also bring development, but not just inflatability, is good. However, certain specific decisions still need to be defined. It has already been announced that the dilemma of the withdrawal of the country from the economy is still an open dilemma. Retreat isn't always the best recipe ever. It is not said that the country is always the worst master ever and ever. Depends on how he masters. Together, we will have to define what are the companies and those sectors where we want to stay as a country. I mean, if someone's worth buying, then why isn't that worth it to the state? I hope that we will know these ambitious and realistic, sometimes perhaps even painful conclusions of the exit strategy, which are healthy conclusions, to combine this need for a social democratic vision of the development of our country, where the country will remain an active player both in society and in the economy and that we will actually be stronger in 2012 and then in 2016 as we have ever been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u74	Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u75	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In this general crisis, which we are dealing with in the real sector, I have a feeling that everyone is fighting in his own way, as someone can and knows. However, we would need effective measures. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have already proposed to launch investments at local level from the outset. There the projects are ready, and I am sure that the crisis that will hit construction soon will certainly not be what it will be. While the government has helped slightly so far, we must not be unjust, because we also supported those measures at the time, and we expected much more. That's when we said something better than nothing. We have looked at this issue as something happens, follow these measures, make analyses, and if the matter is not as it should be, action is to be taken and matters are to move on. Otherwise, we support the strategy ahead of us again in line with my insatiable optimism. I hope I won't be disappointed. Speaking of construction and housing, Mr Levanič has made a good proposal to me, let us give these apartments a buy-out or release of favourable loans, and let us help construction. However, we also need to step away from these market legalitys at some point. If we are in such a situation right now, we can also take administrative action. Of course, if we have the money, I'm not on the government's side, I also have to be honest here whether it's possible or not. But I'm sure there's a way to help. From practice, I can tell you that those who have lost their jobs at this time have housing loans, walk from door to door, seek employment. And that's the stimuli that gives you the responsibility to fight to find a job, and that would certainly be a good move if you did, because young families can get loans for a much longer period of time than middle-aged people. Mr Brulc also spoke well about the developmental axes. During the debate, he touched on his area of origin. I'll touch our own lithium. I must say that the road to Zasavje, Lithija-Ljubljana-Trbovlje-Hrastnik-Rome Toplice-Zidani bridge is the road of death. If you take this road, you'll see candles burning on the road every five, ten kilometers. That's a lot of damage, too. That's too bad. And if one could also evaluate it, one would see that any investment in this road would pay off very, very much. And let's not forget anything else. We have structural measures in this strategy. Of course, the strategy is oriented towards economics, the direction of savings and also added value. We have not yet spoken about the rule of law on this strategy. Lately, I have a feeling that this legal state is very much under way. If there is no confidence in this rule of law, if we do not make order here too, I think that even such strategies, which can be so good, will not lead to the success that we all want together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u76	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President, Mr Prime Minister. Obviously, this document is something that is intended primarily for those Members who are here, but obviously not for the government, because for over an hour, an hour and a half, only the Minister of Labour and his secretary are present here, which of course also shows the seriousness and the attitude of the Government and the ministries towards this important document. At least that's how they declare it. But look, this document is watched, monitored, interested in young people who are concerned about their future. Let me point out that I received by e-mail a few days ago a request from one student of the Senior Year of Economics if we have Members' documents that also deal with the subject. Of course I sent what I had. And in a day or two, I got one very specific question. Dear Member, do you understand how all these objectives, which the Government also mentions here, will be achieved by the Government? A student of economics, who is probably also interested in theoretical aspects, could not understand how the Government would deal with this. And I believe that the Government doesn't know that either, and we haven't received these answers by now. It is true, however, that today's debate is not too much. Everything's welcome. Otherwise, it is more or less meant for each other to make sure, perhaps those who watch and the government is more or less uninterested in it. It is said here that this is a document, a strategy, a strategic document that I welcome, but unfortunately here is the most concrete only address, the Slovenian exit strategy 2010 to 2013, everything else that is written here but far from reflecting those necessary areas of entry and, last but not least, some projections that would show this document to be credible and, above all, that everyone can believe in it together. There are a lot of things in there, especially from some theoretical debates, the foundations, the sciences that the economy has known for a very long time, and this has been heard a few times now, "copy-paste" has apparently prevailed here too. That is why, above all, Mr Gaspari's observations, when he commented on the SDS's proposals, that they were not new proposals. We have never alone claimed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that these measures were only the result of our knowledge, but they were the proposals of the Chamber of Commerce, Chambers of Commerce, Economics and Economics, which we have summarized in some way according to the priorities for which we assess that they should also be pursued here. And this is a key flaw in all these documents, which the Government has also prepared for this consideration. Here it has been repeatedly said, there is no timeline, there are no concrete proposals for a law, because the laws will be realized by those who will achieve these goals. Minister Gaspari stated that 25 legal measures were envisaged by the end of the year. Although this is an ambitious goal, it is now almost in mid-February, but if the government’s effectiveness will be the same as it was in 2009, when a number of ministries from their plans at the end of the year have met those targets 12%, 15%, 30%, 40%, I fear that there will be very little of this strategy or of these laws that will also be good or see the light of the world of treatment in our congregation. Especially since these are laws that will require social dialogue. I don't think that's going to be possible at a time like this. Therefore, I think it is a waste of time to discuss this document alone now. It would be better if the Government, instead of now discussing "up, down" in the National Assembly, specifically debates or seeks or prepares specific laws and then discusses these laws to see whether they will bring these expected effects to us. And here by the coalition Members who praise, how many plans have been implemented, with what effects of the last year by the Government I have not recognized this in any positive sense. Were these the expected effects of having a hundred thousand unemployed? Were the effects expected, in fact, to have the sharpest decline in gross social product? That we have a debt, the least indebted from another, we are now at the very top. If these are the effects, I fear that this exit strategy, as has been said, will be just a letter on paper and nothing more. I have no ambition to now oppose the support of such a strategy. As I said, it's no harm, but a respected government, a respected coalition, is far too small, and time is not our ally. With one sentence, let us give or start working as soon as possible because you have a responsibility, a mandate, and as little talk and concrete action as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u78	The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister and other representatives of the Government, Members and Members! I'll start where Mr. Grill ended up. It is indeed a waste of time when we will discuss the six laws relating to regionalisation that are from the previous mandate. Indeed, waste of time has been discussed in the second or third draft laws that have already been rejected. It is true, however, that the document that the Government has sent to us for information in the National Assembly can be discussed in depth and accepted as a guide for a way out of the crisis. This is a Slovenian exit strategy that we can now express in principle support for, but how we think about it and how we will support it, but it will be seen in concrete legislative proposals. 25 of these are predicted, I believe that those who are key to guiding the improvement of the situation in Slovenia. I am also reading the exit strategy by seeing in it some concrete international comparisons of why we are in this situation and how we look at what has happened to us. We often hear how in one year the government has wasted everything that has been gained, and we are in the field of black and white painting. But if you look at the eighth page of the document, you see an international comparison of what the economic growth of Slovenia was like between 2005 and 2008. And when you look at these indicators, you can get information about whether it was really an extraordinary, extraordinary and quality economic growth and where Slovenia ranks by these indicators compared to other countries. Maybe now it's just a matter of touching each segment separately. I'd only touch one. For a successful exit from the crisis and for the successful development of Slovenian society, I see an important emphasis in the priority called the enforcement of knowledge as a fundamental lever of modern development, as an investment in development. I'd like them to unite. And we were also invited by the Prime Minister of the Government to agree to support us when he explained the strategy to us in the introduction that we should be united in knowing that knowledge is an investment, not a cost. Recently, I heard on one of the working bodies that we're spending money on research. If we look at some countries, whether in innovation and innovation, the company invests capital, when, for example, in America, or if investment in knowledge, in research, in development, in innovation, the fruit of consensus in society such as Finland, for example, because you know the question of why Finns fly longer. If that's how I wash up, then it's possible that the exit looks exactly like this. And it is not in Slovenia's best interest to know that 72% of medium and small enterprises are on the list of those that we can say are non-innovative. Where should we invest, how should we invest? I think what we call integral knowledge, where the education system, training, research, development, information communication technology connects, is that the path we should support. If I want to make concrete with only one thing that awaits us in 2010, for example, a resolution on the National Adult Education Programme is being prepared. We have now seen the 2008 report. According to the indicators of participation and capture of the population in the system, Slovenia can praise and say that we are very high among the countries of the European Union. However, when we look at what adult education is all about; that it is mainly about driving examinations and obtaining different hygiene standards, then we cannot be satisfied because we do not follow the objective that we follow: raising general education, opening up society to suck up and incorporate all the potential it has for a small country like Slovenia, and then we will at least be on track to become, at some point, instead of a country of equity or a consensual society in which all segments of society have the opportunity to decide on the fundamental issues of development and public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u80	Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Marian Krizman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the ministers, Madam Secretary! Colleagues and colleagues! Today, quite a few words were put into the account of the document that we have before us today. At the expense of a document that, not only in my opinion, is excellently prepared, prepared by ministers who do not need to defend Members, because they have done their job perfectly and they do not need to defend themselves against anyone, because we have heard from the opposition parties a few picrires, in particular a reduction in the meaning of this document, and we would like the public to believe that this is a dead letter on paper. That's how it was to understand your leader of today's editorial on your part. In fact, we can see that this strategy started on the first day that this government started and started ruling. If we look at just a few areas that were very active. All of them were active, but if I limit myself to the field of minister covering work, family and social affairs, we will soon find that this very ministry in Parliament has proposed many documents, laws that have helped and helped the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who are in the worst trouble. Yesterday we adopted a very important law, where we helped people at least enough to be worthy, more in the notes to survive at all. In the previous government, Mr Virant put them on the ground so strongly that they would not recover for a long year on the scale and who predicted their salary growth. Also in the field of health, where fundamental changes are being prepared. They're written here, and some of them are already being treated. I am confident that this will bring health care back to the public, not privacy, and that health care will come back to life as people want, especially that health care will not be just the prey of some who see here the opportunity to forge their profits. The Health Act will deal with some of the things that have been completely disrupted in the previous term. If we just look at what's been going on in health homes so far and see how concessions have been granted and so on. This document, the exit strategy, covers just all the areas necessary for the normal vital life of our country and its citizens. In here, everything that will certainly, by the end of this term, enhance our country's reputation, raise standards and more. That the opposition is criticizing this document, it is clear. And that's her job, too. Criticism is always welcome, but it is not always welcome to humiliate, tease, critique, and all the other things that are often enjoyed in this opposition party without hair on the tongue, and sometimes they are surprised to get some picro back in their noses. On this occasion, I would like to wish our Government that this strategy, which has already been put into practice, will continue to be applied in a rigorous manner until the end of this mandate and beyond, because these measures will not end with the end of this mandate. The crisis is going on and it's going to take a while. But here we have a guarantee that people in this country will live significantly better since this government has felt that it is essential to help people and do something about it. It's also written. It's also written. This is a document that is accessible to everyone, and this is proof that the Government is serious, and it is proof that the Government does not come to Parliament with the laws they like, now one now with the other, but has shown its identity card which says what it will do by the end of the term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u82	Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. I must say that I am very pleased, in particular, at the last two debates of the honourable Members of the SD. They point to a very important shift: the realization that it would be far more fair if respected gentlemen from the coalition went instead of the word "Slovenia can be led better" to elections with the word "Slovenia can be led too slowly and too late and with inflatability". That's why, of course, we're where we are. The best evidence for this is this strategy, the bombastic name of the paper that he may earn in one part, certainly not in the other part, but it comes too slowly and too late, ladies and gentlemen. It's been a year and a half since the election! A year and a quarter have passed since you took power as formally as the government. And it is only now that we get only the theory of the exit strategy, while there is no action, nor any concrete substantive conclusion in this strategy at all. And that's what everyone's bound to expect. In doing so, we received a talk in the introduction about the same boat. What was marked this year and a half? That the true paradox was that the proposals of packages, concrete measures, laws, were being prepared and offered again and again by the opposition, and the ruling coalition rejected everything in a row, either out of prestige, political pride, ignorance, anything. But the outcome, ladies and gentlemen, was devastating. And the lady who said earlier that a comparison should be made, we are happy to do so. What was the characteristic of the period of the previous term of office? That it was growth - this blue is the growth of Europe, the average of the European Union, this yellow was our growth in the same period. And we can all see that Slovenian growth was much higher, much faster than the average growth of Europe. We can therefore say that this is an added value to the knowledge and expertise of the authorities in the past period. While we have a much faster, much more destructive decline in the current period, we can say that we have added incompetence and ignorance, reflected in red numbers, in symbolic color, which is also a symbol of the present power. Thus, at least in some way, justice is satisfied from this point of view. If we are talking about the same boat, with all the rejection we have witnessed, of all the opposition proposals in the past period, it must be said that this was not the same boat. In fact, it was a red submarine that acted only on the left. And if the vessel only goes on the left drive, it starts in the spiral to the left turning down and down and down and ends where, unfortunately, this moment Slovenia is. Now that this text, which is called upon by your proposal, is being analysed, the exit strategy raises a matter of priority. And first and foremost, what I am pointing out today is that we have not yet witnessed this, is that there is no effective economy, and even less - good, quality, effective economic growth, without well-functioning and effective justice. And here, ladies and gentlemen, are the results of the year and a quarter of your reign, now I'm talking about the government, the coalition is a little longer, destroying. The number of judges has decreased, in some cases you have increased even more than a quarter, but at the same time there are a number of backlogs, the Lukenda project is at risk. This means less legal security not only for citizens and citizens, to whom this is a constitutional right, but also for businesses, entrepreneurs, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, who are most vulnerable. The non-payers are the ones that are the most souled new businesses, the new-found companies, the entrepreneurial initiative at the moment. Because of this, while Slovenia is still the most tax-intensive country in the world under your rule, it is thinking about moving its activity abroad to leave us with the most creative layer of people. These are the effects of the year and some of your powers. At the same time, a matter of priority is being raised, even when it comes to concrete actions. For example, one of the biggest breakthroughs was the visit of the foreign minister and the president of the country in Serbia, where a special money-giving agreement was signed. And what turned out to be? There is now more money going to Serbia in two months than we would need for the warm meals of all Slovenian secondary schools. And if we add to this that good jobs, new jobs are the only solution and the only social security, then let me point out that debt has increased by more than half of what it was. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The common debt of the former Yugoslavia, in a single year of your power. [[...]] Therefore, a key message is that there is only one real exit strategy for Slovenia: as soon as possible elections and your departure from power!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u84	Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u85	Thank you very much. It's not easy to keep going after this show, but I really don't want you to row in the same boat because it would really make a submarine. It is very difficult for someone who does not take a medicine that has side effects to say that it is a simulator for this. And that's exactly what you're trying to tell us throughout the debate. I am aware that there will be no great added value today. I listened very carefully to the opposition representatives. A representative of the largest party was detected even in the past year, I wrote down a strategic negative shift. I can't explain it to myself, but it doesn't matter. Mr Vizjak, I will speak without your consent, I am in the past, and I will be in the future, but I will not evaluate your statements, because it is not reasonable to judge them, because as a former minister you have had time to participate actively at least in the preparation of the strategy of how to behave in the crisis we came into during your ministry. Of course, then it is difficult for those who have put us in crisis without any strategy to prepare to help us out of this crisis. This is probably a expectation that will not produce additional fruits. The measures to which we have seen as long-standing crisis solutions were measures that, on the one hand, spoke of tax relief, of decommissioning, on the other hand, of taking care of those aids that were needed, thus reducing revenues, increasing expenditure, not incurring debt, but saving. I don't think this formula works out for you. With regard to strategic or developmental axes, which I am particularly sensitive to, and also at the time of their placement in space and predicted realization, I have understood from the Government that there is no such thing in the exit strategy, but that no document has deleted this from the programmes for the next period. Certainly, the past tense has proved that the market is not omnipotent. In doing so, I would like to point out that we must be very careful about the sale of state property in the future. In doing so, I agree with the warnings. Although I agree that it is very difficult to separate capital owners in a good and bad way in the way that some foreigners are domestic. We have rich experience, time, transitions where we can also list those who did not care about quality jobs for added value, but especially how to put as much wealth in their pockets. However, it is very embarrassing to listen to the effects that some people are predicting. These sometimes come from a kind of coalition, because it is possible to see that legislation is being drawn up and that will result from this exit strategy. The exit strategy will actually show up in the laws coming to the National Assembly in the coming cities. But these laws will probably not lead to what I have heard today that people will be deprived of health care, that a child with a broken leg, if parents do not have money, will remain with a broken leg and similar nonsense that I have heard in this hall. I am sure that we will not go this far with the reforms that are forecasting. Let me tell you, I have a very uncomfortable feeling about the so-called social cap. I think it's an intervention in the field of solidarity. I still think that those who have more, who deserve more, should also contribute more, even beyond the limit that we now define with the social cap, because this is some kind of solidarity. And at the end of the day, I won't be too long because time is running out. Once again, I never expected the opposition to speak appreciatively about the government's actions, but I expected a slightly more accurate assessment. And let me say that when I have listened to those who have evaluated the exit strategy and come from the opposition species, let me say that I have not detected any action that they might say, "Look, let's take this measure and we will get rid of the crisis." There were criticisms in general, and that was the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The word is Franz Pukšič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, ladies ministers with co-workers and co-workers! Before this exit strategy could be considered a value system in our country. Where did this valuable system bring us? In fact, we can talk about the crisis of values, the crisis of political responsibility, and how, and certainly we can also say that we are without political hygiene. If we just remember a few events back. It began when all of you, on average and also directly elected representatives of our country, excused some action by the party president, the minister and said that this was something that happened because he made a mistake and so on. So there's no political hygiene. The crisis of values has indeed proved to be one of the major ones in this case. If you remember, there was a Belgian case a while back when one of the convicts escaped from court, a pedophile. What do the Justice Minister, the Police Minister and the Health Minister have to do with this? Nothing in Slovenia. In Belgium, however, all three ministers resigned in two hours. Colleagues and colleagues, where are we? Where's our value system? Minister Pogačnik, after all that is going on, should have drawn the line a long time ago if we had at least a little comparison with European countries and not talked about complete political hygiene. Or in the financial field - how can the Minister, however? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u88	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u89	become one of the biggest Slovenian tycoons for state bank supervisors? But it happens like I'm letting the wolves watch over them. The result, as we know, is that they are falling out, the Ljubljana Bank is back in the negative, in the crisis, the taxpayers will have to pay it again and so on. A crisis of values, how a secretary of state can mud the country in Brussels and nothing happens. Today, in Del, a journalist may say what will happen if Minister Pogačnik does not make the move that the Slovenian public expects. Colleagues and colleagues, what is it to do? A confidence system should be established before this strategy. A system of trust in the first place between the employer and the employee. So it wouldn't have happened what was said at Weeknik last night: "We're back in a slave-ownership relationship." The workers are in a slave-ownership relationship! Where are the institutions, where are the instruments of the rule of law? As has been said: in individual power centers where the whole system is used by certain individuals for themselves. So, the return of human dignity, that's [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Since I don't have any more time, I ask the Prime Minister: Will he set up a counter to use European funds so we don't lose them as we already have? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The word is Brada Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u91	Hello! Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I must say that from the point of view of this area, which I am covering not only by duty but also by personal interest, I am particularly pleased with this exit strategy, because it specifically stresses that the introduction of a green tax policy, green procurement, the promotion of new technologies that increase added value is based on the introduction of technologies for the development of a carbon-free society or at least a low-carbon society. In particular, it emphasises forest management, improved forest management, among the lines, but it is very well understood that our forestry and timber industries are also being steered in such a way that the added value will be so high that it will also allow higher wages in this sector and, in particular, re-employment, it is said, the revitalisation and restructuring of the forest economy so far. I am convinced that for someone who has carefully read the exit strategy, there is no way that expression can be taken into account in the sense that it is only an empty promise, again a general document that does not commit to anything, because I must say that those who claim that this document does not commit to anything, of course, have not read the explicit commitments of this government where it will be directed. I must say that I am particularly pleased that the exit strategy is also geared towards increasing and improving public passenger transport, which means that it will be geared towards reducing traffic by passenger vehicles, aiming also at restructuring and improving the rail network and thus definitely reducing energy consumption for freight road transport. I don't think there's more than that you could possibly want. It is therefore pointless for me to make clear, in the debate on such an important document, which, year after year, up to 2013, what are the priorities, so it is not true that priority is not. It also foresees changes in operational programmes and directing European funds, in particular, into investments that will allow not only the restructuring of businesses themselves, the economy itself, but also in particular the development of new skills and skills for people to be able to create higher added value in their work and thus allow themselves and the employer to provide higher wages so that they can pay higher wages. I must say that at our visit to Denmark by Wednesday, I have to say, with amazement, I have noticed some of this very significant and for us, for our country, even in the past, we can say that there are unusual ways of managing or public sector that this country is implementing. Extremely high taxes on cars, 120 to 200% of taxes on passenger cars, which means that without further delay they can direct public funds to improve passenger traffic, to 10,000 bicycles that people drive to work with, to school and everywhere. When you see things like this, you can see that this exit strategy is actually just the first step towards a general rerouting of our society. I am confident that this government will succeed with this exit strategy of our country to get out of trouble and point it in, I will say on a victorious path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, spoke. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! As the issue of jobs, employment has been mentioned several times in the debate so far, allow me a few comments. There are many comparisons in time and with other countries of the European Union and in the employment sector, where one of the main indicators of the state of unemployment in this area is taken, we can say that Slovenia holds a high level of unemployment, since it is among the first five countries with the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. At the same time, I would like to stress in particular that in these circumstances it shows not only that indicator but that it is particularly important to see how and how strong the movement is among the unemployed, but also from the unemployed group back to employment. If we are to achieve greater structural changes in the economy in the future, then it will be imperative that this flow is greater than it was. It will be essential that the level of unemployment, if you want, is maintained at a slightly higher level in order to achieve a transition between jobs and between businesses as well as between sectors of the economy. This is something that monitors structural changes, without it we will only protect the quality of jobs where they still exist. And the indicator that this flow is happening is actually that last year, when the crisis was also an outflow from a group of unemployed 48,500 people. So many have been employed by the Employment Office registry, which is a significant number. So this structural change, this movement of labour is also taking place in the most acute situation and, of course, we must continue with this policy in the future. In order to accelerate this, we are preparing amendments to the Labour Relations Act, which is expected to increase flexibility, as well as to the Small Work Act. And another essential condition for this structural change to take place is the strengthening of the active employment policy that we strengthened last year and will strengthen it further. In particular, emphasis is placed on the higher level of training, the education of employees in order to move between jobs and take over these more demanding jobs that we expect to be generated by the economy in the future. The second feature of this policy is the response to individual groups that have now come in one another in a more difficult situation. And if a group of older people has been mentioned, it has already been given a lot of attention by individual measures to promote active ageing, which have recently been adopted, and even though there are many measures in active employment policy that work for people over 50 years of age. At the same time, while stressing flexibility, we are aware that this flexibility must be safe and that we are also amending the labour relations law set out in this exit strategy to ensure a greater level of security for those who do not have it today. These are already mentioned employees for a certain period of time who are difficult to obtain monetary compensation and will receive them more through amendments to this law. By the way, since it has been stated that everyone is employed for a certain period of time, this is not true. For a certain period of time, most of those seeking employment for the first time are employed, which is slightly less than 80%. Overall, this percentage has been stable in recent years and is around 17%. Security in this case also comes from the adoption yesterday of the Minimum Wage Act, which proves that we have already done something out of this programme before we actually confirmed it. The claims that nothing has been done or that nothing will be done, through this case, show that they do not have a sound basis. I would like to mention in particular the structural changes that we are planning in our area, where it is intended to eliminate these accumulated imbalances that have arisen in the social system and cause an increasing economic incoherence of these social systems and also social injustices, because the system has not been sufficiently responsive in the past, because they have been neglected and because it has not responded to such changes as demographic change, population ageing and the like. Here is the last time not to delay, but start very quickly, and we are preparing this now accelerated, changes in the pension system, as well as in the social system, the system of social transfers, where there is already a law on eligibility from public funds that will change the way and entitlement to public funds and the way they are applied, as well as the law on long-term care and the scholarship law. All these laws are intended to substantially change the situation of individual groups. On the one hand, by reducing the level of risk of those in the least favourable social situation today falling below the poverty line. On the other hand, those who contribute more to this system will also be able to draw certain benefits from it. All these laws, which I mention, will be presented to the public, some already next week, and then will follow the presentation in the next few months, as announced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Milam Martin Cwickl, Secretary General of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u95	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to mention three things, which may be important for today's debate, in my short performance as Secretary-General. Firstly, what is the fundamental difference between the SDS programmes, including what we have discussed for a few weeks in the National Assembly, and the exit strategy. Secondly, what is the fundamental difference in understanding the environment in which we are in. Thirdly, what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been doing since November 2008 with the decision of the National Assembly. You have proposed with the last package a further billion and a half of various reliefs, without telling us where, in what way, this billion and a half tax exemptions in the state budget should be saved. And if the National Assembly accepted what you've done, today would be one of those next countries of the type of Greece. We'd have a 12.13% deficit in public finances. We propose with an exit strategy and with a stability programme, which is a closely linked document, fiscal consolidation. Over the next three years, about €200 million will be reduced because the situation in which we are is completely different from the situation in the golden days of the previous government. The golden days of the previous government, however, marked two fundamental features. In 2004, we had 5.7 billion tax revenues. In 2008, we had two billion euros more. And in such times it is easy to share and write various programmes, resolutions and so on. With the crisis caused mainly by the over-indebtedness of the world, including Slovenia, and the golden times in Slovenia, it allowed a great debt of Slovenia abroad, with September 2008, with the collapse of Lehman Brothers by howling the conditions of peppers, as Mencinger says and others, simply ended. It was necessary to stop at those sources that individual countries had. In 2009, the government, which took place in November 2008, found itself in a situation that took place for the first time in Slovenia alone, to have nominally less government revenue than it had been a year before. If we had, during your government's period, an increase in tax revenues, as I said earlier, by 2 billion, we had them in 2009, in relation to 2008, a fall of exactly 1.1 billion. And it had to be adapted. The government, with the first, second and third packages of measures related to the adoption of the two rebalancings, already saved around half a billion euros in 2009. A few hundred million because of the serious negotiations we conducted with the unions to prevent the negative effects of Virant's reform. Secondly, by adjusting the two rebalancings and reducing the spending rights that you set out in the 2009 budget in golden time, when you adopted the budget in November 2007, when you proposed the 2009 budget. If the Borut Pahor government did not reduce public spending, we would have spent 961 million on material costs in 2009 and spent 140 million euros less. Over the entire year 2009, this government revenue drop reduced by about 50% of this drop in government expenditure. Material costs, less investment expenditure, in particular those not linked to EU funding and an agreement with trade unions. And the government that did this in 2009 was the first one to do something like this and adapted to an environment that was different. The exit strategy recognises that, in 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013, it is not possible to ensure, by means of short-term austerity measures, government expenditure at the level laid down by the fiscal rule that stated that we have been nominally fixed. Why did we nominate ourselves? In order to further reduce unnecessary rights, unnecessary use of public money through serious structural adjustments, this is the content of the exit strategy and structural adjustments. I regret that today we have not heard from the President of the largest opposition party that he does not intend to support the exit strategy. We have heard one sentence, which was indicative, today we have heard everything possible about various banks, said that there is no need to prolong working hours, that there is no need for pension reform, that there is no need for structural adjustment. And that reminds me of the time you described as "gold time." The golden times of indebtedness that Slovenia had during the period 2004-2008 and the golden times of increasing public finances, especially tax revenues, have simply passed. And the Slovenian exit strategy wants, I hope, also with your help, to take measures to adapt to this situation. And that is the fundamental difference between your suggestions and our proposals. Proposing for a billion and a half additional tax reliefs, but not telling you where to save it, is simply too easy. And that's the fundamental difference. And what the Government has been doing since its creation on 21 November 2008: it has been implementing measures to adapt to a situation that has unfortunately hit not only Slovenia, but the whole development of capitalism in order to bring about better results from this crisis. If you admitted it, then your actions would be different. I suggest that colleagues continue to explain the elements of the stability programme, what we are doing in ministries, such as the public administration, what we should do in the field of transport, so that we can fully engage the available European funds. Of course, I hope that in the coming months you will support the laws that we will propose. And this: the laws that we have presented to you today are laws that have been available in the National Assembly on the list of the Government's normative work programme since last Christmas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The word is given by Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u97	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! On the Committee, I have addressed my fellow members of the opposition parties with all seriousness and have seriously pointed out that saving in the public sector is a social consensus, and this is due to the lack of any measures affecting existing rights. That is why, in fact, in today's debate I have listened to, in some way worries me and, on the other hand, in the direction of the objective, at least consensus on the important points that are important for the country, regardless of which political option we belong to, that you will again consciously overlook and not say that the measures we have presented in the area of consolidation of the public sector are not flat-rate, but that there is no dynamic approach, in fact, no time for realisation or some seriousness of the approach that will happen. The proposal for measures drawn up by our Ministry not only has a description of the measures, the financial effects envisaged are both in 2010, 2011 and 2012 and are actually affecting all areas, with important, including structural, changes that have not yet been made due to political disfavor. And, of course, the consensus to implement such measures, which I will quickly bring down below, will be a tough negotiation already within the framework of government parties, as you rightly point out. Last but not least, if there is no broader political support, this will of course be a problem when such a regulation comes to Parliament and, for this reason, will seem insignificant and less important in the eyes of people and will be exceptional. Thus, the proposals you have on pages twenty-three to twenty-three among the measures aimed at consolidating public finances have first introduced systemic and organisational human resources measures, then measures in terms of reducing the number of employees in the public sector by one per cent each year and interventions in the area of wage policy and other benefits from the employment relationship. Here all the envisaged measures are precisely mentioned, in the work they already represent the subject of social dialogue with the social partners and, last but not least, they constitute an intervention in the existing rights of public servants in a way that will be at the point when opposition parties can take advantage of this for political prestige, also constitute social unrest in the country. In 2011, when, however, the costs needed for public sector work will need to be halted in order to consolidate the public financial situation. Here in today's debate against these measures I have not heard, so in the future, when the laws that will rationalise these measures will, of course, receive the support of all, including opposition parties. An important measure to be seen in 2011 is the establishment of a public fund for the management of immovable property of the State. When all the stories that are today, which concern people in Slovenia today and point to the irrational behaviour of individual budget users, when they are looking for space for their work, when we are paying rents, when the dispersed management of this immovable property is irrational, expensive, and if willing, it has become already harmful, we have found in the Government and have also adopted a strategy already in mid-2009 to centralize the management of real estate. This means that individual ministries will no longer seek and provide conditions for their operations with their support services. We expect that in 2011 and in the long term, 10% of the reduction in the number of employees in this area will be required, as these support services will go from ministries to this single person of public law, and in the long term they will need fewer, and this better organisation of work will mean less long-term employees on the one hand and on the other, which is essential, more rational treatment of business premises, housing owned by the Republic of Slovenia and today dispersed into the management of individual national authorities. So far, there has been no political will for such concentration, centralisation and transparency in this area. In 2011, I am convinced that with the operationalisation of this measure in the Government's work programme, all these regulations are. With this work we will achieve some important integration, optimisation of processes in this area. The question of the creation of a Public Procurement Agency. Both by the economy and by individual ministries have simply matured the knowledge that greater public procurement needs to be carried out rationally in one person of public law under interference, of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to simplify procedures so that less opportunities for corruption can be achieved in order to achieve a better price, a single business, a typical contract, a catalogue order if you want. Today's people working in a significant part of the ministries will combine these best practices in this area and in the long term in 2011 when we expect this centralised procurement unit and other tasks to be combined, we have already described them in structural changes and forecasts of measures to rationalise the work of the state administration, presenting savings of at least 10 million over the coming years in order to optimise these processes. There has also been no political will for this kind of rationalisation. We are now forced into such centralisations to reduce the resources for the operation of support services, which are now organised independently in all state bodies. In the field of electronic services, which, according to our assessment, represents an important optimisation of the functioning of the public administration, we find, on the basis of the strategy adopted last year and which has shown the actual situation, which is an important lagging behind. At least two areas in 2011 are expected to come to life, this is an "e-Social" project whose action plan has already been adopted in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, which is preparing legal legislation and optimizing these processes by the Ministry, we provide electronic support to linking the bases that will allow for significantly more optimal decision-making on these rights and will also provide citizens and citizens with a more friendly decision on these rights. A single contact point and the implementation of a service directive, where we should implement this service directive by the end of 2008 and 2009 because we have adopted this situation completely unprepared from the previous government, we are systematically working on this. At the same time, we have committed ourselves to excessive regulation of professions and activities - Slovenia is two hundred and fifty regulated professions. The average in the Member States of the European Union is one hundred jobs in those who want to encourage the entry of independent entrepreneurs, small businesses, to the market, even less close their doors. The aim and ambition of this government is to review again all these professions, whether the regulations are necessary and compulsory to ensure public interest, and then to provide information on such clean and deregulated procedures. We also hope, through the preparation of information support for the preparation of resolution renewal rules, where the professional public will be able to participate online for at least a month, that the participation of people in policy-making in 2010 will be significantly more possible. Last but not least, we have been looking for a way to implement the programme to reduce bureaucratic burdens by 25%, because we have committed ourselves to the European Commission in order to do so. In 2010, in cooperation with the external professional public and with their work, we review 66 laws, 3,200 sub-laws, measure the burdens in these regulations so that in 2011 we can relieve the economy of unnecessary procedures, unnecessary routes, and unnecessary permits that they need to obtain for their operations today. With this realization, how are all the ministries in charge of carrying out this important task of decommissioning in their field, we believe that we will save the economy almost €15 million of savings in the long term from 2012 on an annual basis for simplifying their operations. These are concrete measures that represent financial consequences, which mean taking into account not least the best possible practices applied by EU Member States on the path of decommissioning the economy, aid to the economy, and last but not least this is the way in which the public sector shares the fate of the real economy in the way that it also helps and ensures a constitutional principle, while at the same time Slovenia is a social state, and in all these measures this has led it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u98	Thank you very much. There's another debater left, that's mag. Borut Saiovic. I'll give my word to him first, and then she'll get the word "magic." Helena Kamnar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, and Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Minister of Economy, and then Dr. Partick Vlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice greetings to both ministers and ministers. We talked a lot about the strategy today. We told the House of Members that we supported it. Above all, we want sober, realistic reflections and perhaps some information that is different in nature than those that have been wasted on our opposition friends all day. In particular, it proves that a number of true, positive information can be heard today in Slovenia. The Minister, Mr Svetlik, said how unemployment is, how is employment and where Slovenia is at the European level. Being among the five best countries in terms of unemployment is certainly something that has not come from itself. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Mr. Tanko, you want a word? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u100	Mr. Saiovic, I give the floor, you don't have to worry.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much. I think this is certainly an achievement that has not come from itself, but is also the result of a number of government laws, measures and interventions that have managed to keep these jobs. Today, we can also read that trade unions have praised the rise in minimum wages. It is envisaged that more money will be placed on the market, which will act countercyclically and will also have a certain impact on the Slovenian economy. Above all, it seems important to me to say that Slovenia and Slovenia have decided that we want jobs with higher added value, and I am sure that this measure will bring them quite something. Perhaps today all those who are looking for positive news have read the Ministry of the Economy’s invitation. 3.5 million Euros are being distributed in the Enterprise Fund for Innovative Enterprises, new ideas, and this is also an important news. The next of the important positive news is the housing market report. In the last quarter of last year, housing traffic has increased, and most traffic is linked to the largest cities, Ljubljana and Maribor. However, the fact is simple, there is a lot of housing on the market and the price of housing has already fallen, which the market has also seen. Those who read the news could also read that Minister of Health, Mr Miklavčič, has also introduced the law into the procedure. This is not ideal in the first stage, but we can and we deserve to upgrade the law during the legislative process, that we will have a law intended for patients and patients in the first place in order to allow for the stimulation and satisfaction of doctors. And that we are giving a key positive and key message in this country that health care homes are still the centre of basic health care and that these stories need to be built on. I think it is also time for some other, purely real life considerations also in the field of energy, energy. On the one hand, it is right to place new energy facilities in the space, but on the other hand it is necessary to be aware that it is with energy waste that we are losing millions and millions of euros that we will be able to save. It is also time to develop a strategy and we also discussed and negotiated, say, the Slovenian manufacturing industry. It is a shame for one of the richest countries in Europe to boast with the installation of a Siberian cedar, African tic and Scandinavian pine, while many of the wood of the resonant quality of Slovenian forests leaves, go abroad in a circle and leave us damaged and damaged roads. Slovenians and Slovenes should unite and incorporate Slovenian domestic wood and its use into our legislation and in our construction projects. We have also talked a lot about the use of European funds in these days. Slovenia is successful at this moment, but it can be even more successful. At this point in time, we need domestic legislation to implement these facilities into space, in addition to programmes, plans. I am sure that this moment is still the candidate, and in the evening, the future minister, who is present for space and environment, is aware of these problems. Many projects, if we don't get the right building permits for them, the ones we want won't do. That is why there is still much work to be done in parallel with the implementation of legal solutions. Today, the profession is the only one, out of all political options, that what we have done in the area of spatial legislation in 2007 leads a decade back, not a step further. These are the basic things that I think Slovenia and Slovenia need to think positively, and then this exit strategy will not just be a thought, it will not be a paper and will become an act, and especially aware that we must live in the context of the finances and opportunities we have. The typical case we have witnessed in the last two days is, of course, a number of criticisms at the expense of winter services. Those who know the comparison with neighbouring European Alpine countries know that such superstandards as we have Slovenians and Slovenians cannot afford even a significantly richer European country. The quantities of sand and salt in Slovenia consumed on a long km of road are indeed record. These, most of them also of the raw materials, then the account exposes us - not today, this moment, but the accounts come in the spring, when these many too salty roads will have to be put into the original state, so that I do not list the effects of salt on sewer systems, meteoric and marsic systems. Simply, in this country it is necessary to realize that the exit strategy must also include the awareness of the style, unity, positive thinking and the greatest weight in the adoption of laws to give 'the law of common sense'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The text is by Helena Kamnar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u103	Thank you very much, Mr. President. She would have touched fiscal consolidation. I think three things have been mentioned at several points in the debate. Firstly, the objectives themselves in fiscal consolidation are somewhat too ambitious. Secondly, it is not in the strategy of measures to ensure that these fiscal targets can be achieved. Thirdly, it has somehow been argued that because we do not reduce tax burdens, it is not possible to expect that fiscal consolidation to work sufficiently in support of the economy. I would like to explain or comment on all three claims. Perhaps first of all, the claim concerning the fiscal framework that has been put in place and that we have also drawn up in the stability programme. The ambition of the objectives that we have set and stem from the excessive deficit and debt procedure before the European Commission undoubtedly puts the country before the government, and then, without a doubt, before the National Assembly, the decision-making process that will lead to a significant contraction on the expenditure side. The fact is that the tax reform carried out in 2007 resulted in a tax drop in the state treasury of two and a half percent of gross domestic product. This, of course, means unloading mainly the economy and partly the private. We are not really aware of this or we do not want to accept it because it occurred in 2007, although the effects occurred only in 2009 to the full or in some segments only in 2010, such as the reduction in tax rates on profit. We don't raise tax burdens. In fact, the share of public finances taxes will remain at approximately the same level over the entire four-year period as 22% of gross domestic product. Practically no tax source is expected to increase, at least as recorded in the document and expenditure is decreasing. To look at the dimension of this reduction, which will be extremely difficult and we will have to reach it, because we have also committed ourselves to limiting the overall level of expenditure over the next four years, practically at nominally unchanged levels. Transfers to the pension register are expected to increase by a good 400 million by 2013, if we do nothing. Social transfers are expected to increase by 100 million. Funding for public institutions is expected to increase by 250 million. And wages, without hiring a single new one in the state administration and in the public sector as a whole, are expected to increase by about 300 million due to the legislation in force in the past. All these increases will simply not be possible if we want to keep the expenditure on a nominally unchanged level. Therefore, there will be a need for action, some being referred to as short-term measures, as already mentioned by the Minister before me, some being referred to as structural measures, as already mentioned in the introduction by Mr Gaspari. That is why the dynamics of this reduced expenditure side are different and are moving more into the second half of the period, as structural reforms will not be able to deliver any previous impact. As for the second question, that the only additional reductions in tax resources are the leverage that will lead to economic recovery, I will read a quote from the article on the exit strategy from the crisis of Prof. Štibler: "The SDS programme supports longer-term supply economy measures more than the government programme, hoping that the economy and the population will refrain from reviving demand through larger revenues coming from larger production. However, the private sector in the crisis is not prone to waste because it has been over-indebted, it saves." This is actually why, in addition to the constraints that fiscal and consumption on the other hand determines why the government does not believe in such a way of getting out of the crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Minister of Economy, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Dear Members, honourable Mr President! The government's exit strategy is based on three key strands. The first package relates to ensuring the stability of public finances and is covered by the stability programme that we had to send to Brussels by the end of January; the second part concerns measures that promote short-term economic recovery and the third component concerns structural measures that try to increase the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy in the medium and long term. If we look at each of these sets now, it is essential that, in the first set, when we talk about the stability of public finances, we assume that by 2013, the deficit rate will fall below 3% of GDP, which is the Maastricht criterion, which means that we will be saving €400 million by then every year, or €1.2 billion. However, the second part of this stability of public finances supports a key fiscal rule relating to nominal non-expenditure. I think this is very important and that we have prevented this part of the exit strategy from happening to Slovenia, such as the worst case scenario in Greece or in a substantially milder form in Portugal and Spain, where they have much greater problems with the stability of public finances, to some extent also in Ireland. This seems important to me because the stability of public finances in terms of the ratings that the economy needs in the long term and, of course, also the country, because the better ratings you have, with better ratings, you can also get cheaper and more favourable credits. Because it means that the economy is more competitive because it has cheaper resources. This part of the exit strategy is therefore important. When we talk about the second part, about measures for the short-term recovery of the economy, it is mainly some infrastructure projects, which you have also warned many in the opposition, including in the questions sent by Mr Presečnik, which has repeatedly warned, as well as many other members of both the opposition and the coalition. This part seems important and good to me. Let me say that we have focused, for example, on the energy sector, on building and complementing the construction of a pipeline network, where investments amounting to €70 million, such as some preparation for a major southern infrastructure project, which is crucial for Slovenia and with which we place Slovenia on the map as one of the EU energy hubs. Another such project is a replacement block in the Scottish thermal power plant. As you know, preparations are being made intensively to build a second block of nuclear power, of course, at this point in the initial phase. Part of this is definitely the construction of a landfill of low- and medium-level radioactive waste, where, for example, the project value is about 150 million euros, which is an important additional impetus for construction operators. Such projects are the continuation of the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava, the hydroelectric power plant Krško and Brežice. Where work is already being done, work will be accelerated as well as the preparation of other projects. A key infrastructure project, which has been alerted for many years, is the Beričeva-Krška pipeline, which is crucial to ensuring the stability of electricity supply in Slovenia. The electricity distribution companies and Eles will invest an additional EUR 200 million in the construction and modernisation of the electricity network. In short, I only list some projects that are important. I want to say that in this part I agree with all those who have warned that these projects are important for the short-term recovery of the economy. To this end, we have also prepared an energy efficiency programme where we will invest EUR 20 million in a comprehensive renovation of the building fund, where it is a change in roofs, facades, windows and the like, as I said, in total, the country is co-financed by EUR 20 million, so that according to our calculations about 20,000 households will be able to completely renovate the buildings. And that's extra impulses, too. In the renewable energy sector, the country will invest €70 million in 2010. It is mainly about building power plants on photovoltaics and biomass. Here we plan a significant number of new power plants, I have information: from renewable energy to 200 new power plants to renewable energy sources. This, however, is data that we are also trying to stimulate economic activity as much as possible in this area. If I continue, of course, with the problem that is most pressing, it is the credit crunch that many of you have warned about. In this area, of course, the Government, in addition to other instruments, can, is obliged and has also encouraged the operation of two key institutions, one is the Slovenian Enterprise Fund and the other is the SID Bank. They're both 100% state-owned. In 2009, the SID Bank additionally invested or credited projects of Slovenian companies amounting to EUR 1.5 billion. This activity is also planned in 2010, while the Slovenian Enterprise Fund will invest additionally through calls of EUR 100 19 million within three lines. In particular, it is a credit guarantee line, to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises, then for interest rate subsidisation projects and additionally for the equity funding line of small and medium-sized enterprises. The Slovenian Enterprise Fund therefore focuses on small and medium-sized enterprises, where the problem is large, we know that there is a liquidity problem and, of course, we are trying to solve it. The problem that is particularly pressing at present in Slovenia is that interest rates are relatively high when companies try to obtain debt resources. This is partly due to the fact that the increase in deposits in Slovenian banks was lower than expected and that, unlike banks, they are in debt abroad. And when margins hit it, we find that actually credit is relatively expensive at this point. We need to know that passive interest rates, i.e. interest rates at which the population invests its savings in Slovenian banks in Slovenia, are now significantly higher than in some other countries. So, this medal does have two placards. But since we know that this problem exists, the Slovenian Enterprise Fund opens the line and has an open line to subsidise interest rates for small and medium-sized enterprises that feel this problem the most. As I said, we hope that, together in 2010, we will somehow support six projects with a total value of two hundred and twenty-two million euros across all three lines. We are counting on each project to provide somewhere, this shows experience, two to three quality jobs with relatively high added value, which is, I will say, only in this sector from these incentives somewhere between five hundred and two thousand new jobs over the next three years. I speak from these sources to be distributed in 2010. Here it is necessary to know that it is projected that these companies and these jobs have added value to the employee somewhere between 7 and 10% at annual level. This means investing in jobs of higher added value and thus following the third set, when I said that the strategy was based on the actual exit in three sets, the first was to ensure the stability of public finances; the second was to re-launch the economy in the short term with the priority of some infrastructure projects, and the third was structural movements that followed the long-term competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Thus, this promotion of the creation of new jobs in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector is already part of this structural restructuring, with at least three more instruments to be added. One is the start-up subsidy for innovative companies, where innovative start-ups acquire funds during the development phase of ideas, products and services, where we plan to support at least 120 projects worth a total of three and a half million euros, as has already been said today. In addition, there are two key calls to promote the functioning of the Interdisciplinary Group on Human Mobility. It is about developing the development cores of different experts in companies, especially science and technology, which, of course, make an important contribution and allow companies to gradually move on to products of higher added value. To promote the operation of interdisciplinary groups in enterprises, we will devote €5 million to mobility, to promoting mobility for an additional million and a half. What I might like to point out at the end is that I will not be a proposal, as we speak of structural measures, is also the issue of this cap that we are about to introduce. This cap restricting the payment of contributions above a certain limit is essential because it is introduced by all members of the European Union. Slovenia is the only country where this payment of social contributions is unlimited. From this point of view, there is a problem, and many of you have also pointed out in this meeting that Slovenia is becoming uncompetitive in terms of the cost of the workload of highly qualified personnel, especially engineers. Therefore, this structural measure is important because it puts us in the same position as other countries in the region. In short, it allows a Slovenian company, which is highly technological in terms of hiring engineers, to be in the same or better position as a similar company, I am now speaking in Austria, Germany and elsewhere where this cap has already been introduced. However, another such measure, which also extends to our area of operation of the Ministry of the Economy, is, of course, the creation of an independent independent competition agency. This area is essentially under-focused and sometimes sometimes under-shadowed by other areas, but it is crucial in terms of ensuring competition in the internal market. That is why we have foreseen that this body is given greater competence, even more independence than it has been so far. We will also transform it into an independent agency and there will be no more bodies within the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u107	Thank you, President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The proposal for measures by the Ministry of Transport to revive economic activity is relatively modest because many projects are already under way. And since many projects do not mean anything essential new, I would like to say in particular that we, as a country, the Government and then also Parliament, at some point, must decide that we must put what we wanted in real terms, in what this country can do. So far, we have only made a lot of decisions about what needs to be done, and these decisions have gathered in recent years for about 15 billion euros or more. Without revalorisation, I'm talking EUR 15 billion. If we know that we have spent €4 billion and a half for motorways by now and practically stopped funding from the budget, this space within the highway budget is no longer available. We are still facing a complex railway programme that has been abandoned since its independence, and we are also facing the developmental axis. I am not saying this in order to lose the courage of these projects in any way, only to speak boldly about what we will do must we be careful and responsible to find the resources together and then ensure the construction of infrastructure. Therefore, we have also written in the proposal of the Ministry of Transport for the Revitalisation of Economic Activity, that it is reasonable to build those sections that meet actual needs, where we can expect long-term traffic flows where we can expect long-term passenger flows, and, of course, those where the added value to the section for the national economy is positive, of course, under important circumstances that we should not forget those areas in the Republic of Slovenia where poor infrastructure would result in cutting off and possibly gravity to another country. We are aware of this responsibility. That is why this record, although general, is very important. I don't want to be inconclusive myself, so I'm going to be very specific, and I'm going to list some projects that are currently under way in the rail sector. I know roads are much more popular, but I still missed a little more debate on rail work, so I'm gonna find out myself. First of all, the modernisation of SV devices on the Divača-Koper route is under way; the project will be completed this year and will weigh €45 million. Then we have the modernisation of the SV devices on the Prague-Ormož track; the project weighs 46 million euros and will be completed in March 2010. Then we have a project to modernise the existing Divača-Koper railway line. The first part has already been completed at 60 million; the second part will be completed by 2014 at around 70 million. The contract is signed, the works are underway. Then the remote management of stable electrical tractors, the project weighs 50 million euros and will be completed after different dynamics by 2010. Then the new railway connection is Divaca-Koper - I will say a few words about this later. Then the reconstruction and electrification and upgrading of the Prague-Hodoš track is worth 240 million euros. It will be completed by December 2015 as planned. The implementation of the GSM-R systems is then expected to be completed by 2011. This is the documentation. The program itself is a little longer. The development of the ERTMS system by December 2013 is then EUR 74 million. Then the cross-border route of Trst-Divač is where documentation, preliminary studies and other studies are concerned, which precedes the construction of €57 million. Joint projects in the railway area up to those years, including by 2016 the new line of Divac-Koper - a billion and a half. If I listed only those projects that are currently underway on the railways, you see that it is quite a part of the programmes that will contribute to economic growth and that is quite something. Let me just say that this moment is being delayed by three projects, one from the time of the previous government - the call. Otherwise, he has been chosen in the past days, i.e. one of those bidders, and let us hope that the matter will turn. Others who are late are so connected with the Republic of Italy and some of the new proposals from the Republic of Italy are coming, we are listening to them, but for now the treaty is signed for us and we have not yet talked about this at the highest level, but we are doing so at the moment in technical terms and we are listening to their proposals, as the friendly countries of course are also doing. One project is the modernisation of GSM-R devices in Divača-Koper, which is also somewhat late, so I also personally visited it and was assured that it will be completed within a few months. The Divaca-Koper project, which is written here, is undervalued by my assessment at this time and we will get the right price for this project by mid-year when the basis for the building permit will be prepared, so this number of investments in railway infrastructure will be much higher than this moment's assessment. A common comparison of this with the highway program already tells you that there is a great deal of start-up on the rail network itself. As far as the development axes are concerned, we have heard quite a bit today because some Members are also members of the Committee on Transport and the Committee on Environment and Space. We recently held a joint meeting of the Committee on Transport and the Committee on the Environment and the Space at which we highlighted the situation. We have shown you where we are, although this is a matter of spatial arrangements, it is about the arrangements of what the Ministry of Environment and Space is doing, and we have shown you a section of the state where we are at this moment, at 3, 3A. Development axis, 4th development axis. To this point, the government has not taken any decision not to build a development axis. Therefore, I ask you not to deceive the Slovenian public when you say that such decisions have been made - they have not been taken! All the projects are moving forward. Once again, all the projects are moving forward and I repeat that we, the Government and all the actors must act rationally, because this list of wishes must also be brought to life by providing all these projects with funds. Perhaps the Ministry's proposal for measures to revive economic activity could also include the establishment of agencies and similar bodies, which will also contribute significantly; one to transport safety, the other to - or perhaps to - common - better air transport, but we have estimated that we would prefer to think of it as a minimalist, to do more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Alenka Kovšci has the word. You have 36 seconds at your disposal. You want to spend 36 seconds? Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Because it's time for discussion. I wonder if anyone else wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure under Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure. He does! That's why I'm asking you to sign up. I'm informing the government's representatives, if they want to sign up, they'll check in with me. Four Members and three representatives of the Government have been notified. He's got a magic word first. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u109	Respectable. When we expected an exit strategy in the opposition, which the Government had long predicted, we expected a strategy to come out of the crisis with which concrete short-term measures - we also have nothing on the specific part of long-term measures, strategic orientations, but, above all, short-term measures to come out of this crisis in several segments. There's some of it in this exit strategy. And we've stressed that a number of times. It is not true that nothing in this exit strategy is useful. Yes, it is. Particularly useful is that part - macroeconomic goals after years that will also come to the opposition when we accompany you in the realization. The problem is that there are no measures to achieve these goals. Most of these measures are not. Respectable, there are no measures to maintain economic activity or to ensure this planned economic growth that you have planned. The government's written and written actions show that it increases the tax burden on the economy. We have adopted a novelty of the excise law, which has expanded the government's manoeuvre to increase excise duties on fuel and fuel. The government has recently imposed a new tax on heating oil, which encourages both for households and for the economy. In short, burdens are increasing, making Slovenia on the one hand less competitive for the economy and, on the other hand, more expensive for the population. Ladies and gentlemen, in this exit strategy, we miss, in particular, measures to ensure, in concrete terms, the achievement of these ambitious objectives of economic growth, which are written inside. We don't know them. There's no such action in there. What Minister Lahovnik listed are the current tasks of the Ministry. These tenders, which were listed, are current tasks of the Ministry. This has been done before and this is being done now and this is not part of the exit strategy. Some of the projects listed, the southern flow, the construction of the Krško-Beričovo transmission network, these are ongoing old projects. In fact, the South Stream is new and will not have any impact at the counter-crisis level, as it will begin to build if, in 5 or more years from now, as it is first going to explore the route, it is said that it is going to go into this planning work and will hire some designer, who are already engaged through existing companies anyway. So these are not counter-crisis measures, so, respectable, part of the criticism was intended to do so. But where you can act and speed up projects, that's where you stand. I'm going to repeat one more time, that's the construction of hydro power plants on the lower Savi. Everything is prepared, the building permit is issued, everything is ready for the construction of the Accumulation Pool on HE Krška, the construction is pending because the Ministry of Environment and Space has not yet prepared the financial structure of this project, although it was required to do so until the middle of the previous year. The Government itself has decided that the Ministry must prepare a financial structure for this. The Ministry did not do this and a few million calls were cancelled to employ the Slovenian economy at this moment and immediately. Not just the economy! Also suppliers of equipment, etc. And it would have some effect. Look, here I want to tell you that this is missing, this part of how to short-term employ the economy, create jobs, because it's the only thing that's going to pay taxes, and it's the only way to ensure planned economic growth. I'm afraid that's not enough. In the opposition, we have placed the tax burden on you and we have told you that if you look at it staticly, this really means a certain departure at a certain point, because there is a tax relief, but it means a dynamic income, because tax relief means a new job, a new job means a new taxpayer, not one that is now on transfers, but a new one that pays in cash, which pays the contributions, etc. And you know that in a cashier with a multiplier. Positive! The evidence for this is already a tax reform in 2007 in order to pay off the fact that there were more inflows to the budget despite a lower tax rate. So, we believe that a key part of the exit strategy that is missing - how to create jobs in times of crisis is missing!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Tanka, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, what we have on the table today is a document. There is also a document for discussion, unfortunately this discussion was relatively small today, because the government has been absent for a long time, except now they have come in the end. However, I would like to point out the following: through the way this document is dealt with on the working body, the fact is that this coalition does not have any confidence in itself. For no decision has been taken on the working body, which would in any way support the Government's proposals in this exit strategy or impose anything on it in terms of content, in terms of complementing content or in determining dynamics. Here we have heard that by October there should be 25 laws that will help make Slovenia easier to come out of the crisis. However, why not then accept such a conclusion that we would actually have it on the table so that we would actually have a light ahead of us and find out whether there is dynamics or no dynamics. I think the working body should have so much discretion, some attitude towards the government, that such a decision would actually be taken. Even when we proposed our package of measures that we specified, stated and made a commitment, we suggested to the Government that we prepare these laws there in 30 days, on the working body, this proposal to the Government actually "pulled out" with another decision. That's too bad. Because in this way nothing good can be done. Previously, Minister Vlačič listed a number of projects on railways. I want to know what will happen to the Grosuplje-Ortnek route that you did not mention. The route has been renewed for a year or two, the restoration to Ortnek is expected to be completed and there is no continuation of renewal in any act, such as to Kočev. You're not in any act - you just listed everything that is, but you didn't mention it. I am also surprised that the Government or the Government Service for European Affairs is proposing to delete certain important projects. Among them, the development axes are also deleted. This is a document that was considered by the Government in June this year or proposed for consideration by the Government this year, but a rebalancing of this is done. These are the strategic projects set out in resolution 2007-2023 and here are deleted important projects relating to the development axes. Now it is also clear why you have failed to support the laws we have proposed, which solve certain communication problems mainly in areas with limited factors such as, say, Bela krajina, Ribniško or Kočevsko, such as, say, Positelje, such as, say, the problem between Kamnik and Gornji Grad. That is to say, when we have proposed that these intermediate links should also be made between areas with problems. You didn't support that either! You did not support a law that would bring certain other railway connections and so on. In this way, I mean, without commitments, without projects, this cannot be realized. Even when we proposed amendments to the budget, the government did not support them and the coalition did not support them, but they specifically referred to certain projects that meant and would mean some development in these areas. When we talk about burdening labour costs, I would like to say that the basic measure in terms of reducing labour costs has been adopted - this is the abolition of taxes on paid salaries. Approximately €400 million at annual level, €600 million, if I am not mistaken, means this tax at annual level. We have accepted this in the previous term. I would expect that this main, fundamental measure has been taken to take further economic relief, which would allow for the dynamic development referred to earlier by colleague Vizjak. Unfortunately, however, the coalition cannot do this, because this budget is only seen again from a formal perspective; it is said: I have and I do not. And at a billion and a half, as much as you've increased budget expenditure, you could also find many euros for these projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected choir! Let me first say that I support the Slovenian exit strategy for the period 2010-2013. The implementation of this exit strategy will be crucial to assessing the success of this government. And at the end of the term of office, we will have to do a thorough analysis and I think we can succeed. My criticism has mainly gone to that part of this exit strategy, which touches on adaptation in the field of transport policy. As a priority in the field of transport policy, the exit strategy exclusively sets out a priority for the development of rail transport and infrastructure. In addition, it has been said that a programme of national development priorities and investments will also be prepared, which will make sense to include the priorities of the regional development programmes adopted if identified as national and individual draft resolutions on national development projects in the period 2007-2023. It is said that, at the moment, rail infrastructure is the only one in the transport policy as a priority in the exit strategy. The other priorities contained in the resolution will still be part of these national development priorities and investments. Today, however, it has been said and ensured by ministers, Dr Gaspari and Dr. Vlačič that the development axes remain. And they're staying, but my criticism is that they're not in the exit strategy. Because, in my view, what I have already said in my main debate, because of its development potential, these development axes should become part of this exit strategy, if not, it will indeed be a exit strategy, especially for these peripheral areas in our country, and I will not list them, because we have heard them many times today. In fact, I would like to support and support that development axes become an integral part of national development priorities and investments, both the third development axis, the third development axis, the third development axis and the fourth development axis. In fact, I have one question, namely, to finance projects in the field of road infrastructure, with a specific decision of the European Council, a hundred and ninety million euros were provided in this financial perspective. As far as I am concerned, I could be mistaken, but from these projects, 100 million euros should be redeployed to other projects. Therefore, I do not think it is a very sincere promise that the development axes remain at least for this period, but that we will be very slow to implement them in the future. Today we will have another item on the agenda, namely the appointment of a new Minister for Environment and Space. At this point, I will also highlight the issue of putting development axes into space, as this is also one of the reasons why much of these projects are not yet ready for direct implementation, and a wide range of projects within the framework of the four development axes, or all of these three development axes, could already begin to be more ambitious if we start to draw on the European funds available to us and are now, as far as I know, almost half the amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Janko Weber has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u115	Thank you for your word. We certainly need an exit strategy. I expect, however, that the exit strategy will also focus to a large extent on areas where the economic and financial crisis is transparent during this period also the most affected. In particular, I am also thinking only of Kočevsko, where the results literally show that the economic and financial crisis there has really been reflected in all its elements. By 2007, economic growth and, after 2007, market losses in companies or downsizing in companies linked to the Western market are already felt. Of course, companies that were over-indebted and were unable to service these obligations more with market loss were in very serious difficulty and had to go bankrupt. This was sweetened by the unemployment rate, which is more than 18%, followed not least by Pomura. I expect that the exit strategy measures will focus on areas where the economic and financial crisis has actually affected them. While this is not explicitly recorded in the strategy itself, I really think that it is to be expected to the fullest extent that this will actually happen. Of course, these affected areas, too, did not remain indifferent, but prepared their programmes. These programmes also relate to an effective transport and energy policy, which is also very important in the exit strategy. This is about supporting centres of excellence and competent centres for individual areas, and it is particularly about an environmentally efficient and low-carbon society that we could create, as long as we actually bring technology to such centres of excellence and competence, so far that companies can bring this technology into their programmes and also try to create additional value then on the market. One of such competent centres of excellence failed in Kočevska, is foreseen in the enterprise incubator in Kočev. It has also been announced at the public invitation of the Ministry of the Economy and contains exactly hybrid vehicle programmes, contains renewable energy programmes, mainly related to wood biomass, and this is what we also expect in this environment to take a step forward from where the economy ended until the moment of economic and financial crisis. For other programmes that are slightly wider, however, they also relate to development axes, but it is only possible to point to a moment in Darsa; it is extremely important and necessary for the toll system to change, and it is changing in this direction so that we can actually toll in the free traffic flow [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u116	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u117	As much as possible to service the debt that Dars has to pay his debts. [[...]] I have a few concerns that, for example, the private sector would assume public debt, the potential public debt of Darsa. I think it would be more appropriate or easier to get someone from the private sector to finance for further development, including, say, development axes and then these development axes should also have elements of the toll road network. This seems to me to be one of the solutions, or we will actually get into a situation where the development axes will actually stop because there will be no resources. Here at Dars, there is also an opportunity to find additional resources, with a clear decision on how we will build and finance and how we will approach the construction of development axes. This is what is missing from these decisions, in the transformation of Dars, but I think Dars is capable of taking over this task as well and should be slightly more ambitiously recorded than if Dars continued to develop the network of toll roads within available resources. So, I think we actually need to cut down more ambitiously here. With regard to the railway infrastructure mentioned by the Minister, we must point out that he has actually reduced those routes financed by the cohesion funds of the European Union. The Bachelor's Line was also mentioned. If Mr Tanko read precisely the Government's response to the budget, he could find that the funds are provided to Ortnek and also to Kočev, in the programme Maintenance of the railway infrastructure for public benefit and investment in this railway infrastructure. Well, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They are budget items and, of course, they must also be sought. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Certainly, Mr Visiak and Mr Tank concluded, in fact, after a full day or more of the half-day discussion, I was deplored. It has been difficult to say because it is so easy to use sentences when dealing with the issues of the measures presented by the Government and in the work already in line with the social partners, but you can tell us that the lack of this sense of social dialogue, when we are already coordinating with them and very concerned about these measures, you have reached three conclusions at the end of this debate: that we do not have the confidence that in fact the National Assembly should commit this unreliable government to the conclusion that in 30 days it should prepare 30 laws in order to do something, yet you recognize exactly that many things are already being done to us that we are repeating that we are always writing the same thing over and over and over again. Yes, of course! If you save in 2009, when the first year of crisis, and continue with the new austerity measures in 2010, we repeat! But repeating these approaches to saving is increasingly cruel and increasingly straining the belt of people who say that the crisis must be for everyone. And if this respected assembly is unable to communicate in a joint way that this country must in the long run save, that we all begin to behave seriously in a way that is a message to people that only confuses them. The opposition reports: you wrote something, some of it already is, but you will not do it. Yes, we must do this, we are obliged to do this for the sake of our citizens. But when you tell us: you are spending more, but we support your ambitions after reducing public spending, don't tell people that you can't spend and reduce on the same cake. Therefore, the balance that you will also decide when we put budgets on the table is so difficult to look for - where to take it that consumption is correct. I think today all ministers have presented to you that this consumption has gone towards providing new jobs. Especially in this direction! Since you are reading this government's lack of awareness that only increasing economic growth, which is included as an element in 2011, 2012 and 2013, with a reasonable assessment, all measures are intended to do so, the austerity part is a problem because it has never been so necessary to save in this country and it has not been saved. Otherwise, before the elections, more than the state has succeeded is usually wasted. And at this point, 400 million at an annual level to cut public spending sounds like a simple matter, even with the desire to increase it to 900 million. In 2009, I myself sought savings to transform part of the free resources into an economy for an active public sector wage policy. It's fucking hard! And within two months of the negotiations, this was succeeded by this government so that we could transform this part of the funds where the crisis required it. A new staff statement, a new proposal to reduce public consumption will cause conflicts, and you know it. We are giving you our hand because it is urgent for the country, please help us to understand that this is necessary and necessary. And today, I'm sorry, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I didn't see it on your side. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u120	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Mr Mitja Gaspari, Minister for Development and European Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Only two or three final thoughts would I say. If we can agree on the order of importance of action, then we agree in many ways; if we do not agree on it, we do not agree on anything at all. How you can come from this general problem that all of Europe has. There will not be very many different concepts here, especially in countries that are members of the same currency area, this is the euro area. And whoever takes the time and looks at the attempts to tackle the crisis in these countries will find that big innovations are not in Germany, not in France, nor in Italy, nor in smaller euro countries. They'll all go about the same way. What we need to look out for is that our tax competition with these countries is established. At the moment, according to the data available, after any of the main elements of taxation in labour, capital or consumption, Slovenia does not deviate from the euro group average, except perhaps in one and this is in consumption tax, where our VAT is higher than the average rates in the euro area. Secondly, it was also an additional thought that with additional taxes we are actually quietly increasing the tax burden. Any additional tax burden at this time comes in the field of green tax policy, which should be a development priority. That factors, energy and natural, receive an economic price is one of the elements that allows investment projects to be based on realistic assumptions and that matters that mention environmental and spatially coherent development and sustainable development are important, therefore it is important that individual investors in the economy do not cause their costs as external but internalise them. Any increase in these burdens will be taken into account in reducing the burden on labour costs. Here I do not agree with some debaters on the burden of contributions for a simple reason, because solidarity does not mean an unlimited greater obligation on the rights, it is not solidarity, it is a disproportionate burden. Secondly, in terms of development objectives and above all, the resolution has been mentioned many times today. Up until now, almost never, even in Parliament's debates, it was not a parliamentary document, but a government document, and it is still a government document, because the current government has not withdrawn it either. What we intend to do and is also in the government's work programme is that this document actually turns into an operationally credible document for the government's operation. However, an operationally decent document is a document in which the link between the development document and the state budget is direct. Resolutions and state budgets have had no direct relationship in recent years. This shows, of course, very simple, if you look at and whoever has time to look at it, national development programmes, which are an annex to the state budget. Go look at these national development programmes and find the projects in the resolution and you will list them substantially less than maybe five out of the '30s. So the incorporation of a good idea into practice was very bad, on the one hand, on the other hand, it was made as a financial project extremely unfair. You cannot come up with a project worth EUR 23 billion and say that EUR 14 billion will be financed from a public-private partnership. That's incorrect. Seven billion from the budget. If you look now at what happened: so to speak, even the euro was not from a public-private partnership. And in many cases it will not be, because it cannot be in those projects which are awarded a public-private partnership. For example, various axes, which will, of course, remain as priority, will be very difficult to find in a public-private partnership where traffic intensity is, say, below 20,000 cars or vehicles per day. There will be no public-private partnership or it will be the same as Hungary had with the highway to Vienna, which it took after a few years to return to the state budget and cancel the contract because it had to pay off channels due to the lack of transport for concessionaires on this road. So let's not play with concepts and public-private partnerships where they don't belong. Let's find him where he's waiting for us and not use him. So much for it, and I think it's gonna be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] the state investment and project programme, which will be an integral part of development planning since this April, together with the development strategy of Slovenia, to fully compensate for the good intentions expressed [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] in the resolution [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Minister. Time's up. Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and note that the National Assembly took note of the Slovenian exit strategy 2010 - 2013. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE OFFICER FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND SPACE. On 2 February 2010, the President of the Government, Borut Pahor, proposed that he appoint Dr. Rok Žarnic as Minister of Environment and Space. Please give my word to the President of the Government for further explanation of the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u123	Dear High Council, President! I proposed a candidate for the Minister of the Environment and the premises of Professor Rok Žarnic a few years ago to the National Assembly. With him, after this proposal was submitted to me by the President of the Coalition Party, I have had several discussions and, as far as I am concerned, my ability to assess the candidate has no doubt sent a candidate to Parliament in the belief that we are getting a long time into the position of Minister for the Environment and the Expert's premises. So far, twice in a row, this situation has been pursued by a career policy that has not been an expert in this city, which is sometimes good and sometimes bad. We have different experiences, and I am not saying that experience is necessarily bad if someone who is not an expert comes to terms, but is a strong and influential politician. It's another way, too. But I think it would be good for this ministry to have, after a certain period of time, an expert who has a vision of the development of this ministry and who is engaged in the environment in one way or another, a career. Dr. Žarnic is convinced that with his knowledge, his vision of the role of regulating space and the environment can help Slovenia implement sustainable development policy. Prof. Žarnic has a vision of how to place the environment in Slovenia's development strategy in the coming years and in the coming decade. This is very important to me. He has a sense of it, he has knowledge of it, and above all, and I would like to stress it at the end, he has the will. Today, it is not so easy to convince people who are respected experts to play a role in politics. They know there's not much satisfaction in doing the job, except for leaving something good behind as an inheritance. Prof. Žarnic is willing to make available his knowledge, authority to leave some good traces to the Ministry of Environment and Space. This is a difficult and difficult ministry. All those who have worked in this ministry know that the public of this ministry is as heavy of a commitment as the volume or depth of responsibility underestimates that the work that requires a quick, often difficult decision. Professor Žarnic is ready to give his knowledge that this ministry is being run as I expect from him as Prime Minister of the Government and my colleagues in the government. That is why, with the best of intentions, I propose him to the National Assembly for appointment. Professor Žarnic will, I'm sure, do his best to try to justify your trust. It's definitely mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u124	Thank you very much. In accordance with Rule 273 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the candidate presented himself to the Committee on Environment and Space and responded to questions raised by members of the Committee. You have received the opinion of the committee. It concludes that the presentation of the proposed candidate was appropriate. I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Board, Franco Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u125	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to the Prime Minister, the Minister, the Minister. Colleagues and colleagues! On 2 February 2010, the President of the Government sent a proposal to the President of the National Assembly for the Minister of Environment and Space to appoint Prof. Dr. Rok Žarnic, a university graduate civil engineering engineer. In accordance with Article 112 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Prof. Žarnic presented himself to the Committee on Environment and Space on 9 February 2010. In his presentation, the proposed candidate for the Minister of Environment and Space presented his academic career, his leadership experience so far, and presented the leadership of the launch of the Environment and Construction Development Group, which was appointed by the Council of the Government for Competitiveness in February 2008. He went on to say that from the data obtained from the Ministry of Environment and Space he sees challenges by 2010 in the field of environment, space, public services, investment. He highlighted the increased efficiency of the ministry and the vision until 2012. Until then, I would like to solve the problem of waste and water resources and third transport axes. The candidate also mentioned the reduction of staff at the Ministry, which he believes will be very difficult, as the Ministry of the Environment is among the most burdened on the introduction of the European acquis into Slovenia's legal order. It assessed that the efficiency of the ministry's organisation and the planning of the funds available to it should be enhanced. As a challenge, it highlighted the management of municipal and non-communal waste, the implementation of external air quality rehabilitations, the preparation of water management plans and the programme for the construction of public water infrastructure by 2020, the intensive implementation of cohesion projects for the environment and proactive cooperation with local communities. He also highlighted the anti-floating regime and the Natura 2000 area. In the area of space, he highlighted the intensification of the preparation of priority State spatial plans, the active cooperation with municipalities for the preparation of municipal spatial plans and the completion of the mass property valuation project as a basis for the preparation of real estate taxation. The candidate also stressed the importance of implementing cohesion projects, addressing the consequences of natural disasters and organising preventive measures. It also highlighted the importance of implementing corrective measures for the Court of Auditors' audits. As he explained, by 2012 I would like to solve the problem of waste and water resources. He also pointed to sustainable tourism, which he believes is a great potential for Slovenia. Member and members of the committee have asked the proposed candidate for the Environment and Space Minister a number of questions relating to the prioritisation of the Ministry, the resolution of difficulties in the adoption of municipal spatial plans, the position on the establishment of landscapes and the impact on the area of land management, the issue of the issue of the issue of the issuance of construction permits and the illegal construction of buildings, the placement of transport infrastructure into the premises, the renewal of housing legislation, the role of the State in the completion of sites for regional centres for the management of municipal waste, the issue of thermal treatment of waste, measures for the effective management of water, measures for the faster allocation of water concessions and for food needs as well as for food needs, the purpose of the Fund for Water, the position on the construction of other areas of water at the time of the river, the implementation of the project of the water supply chain and the implementation of the IP system. On the questions raised, the proposed candidate for the Minister of Environment and Space answered to a greater extent and took note of his views and views on how to approach the individual issues raised in the field of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Following the final presentation of the proposed candidate, the Committee adopted the following opinion by 10 votes in favour and 2 votes against: Presentation by Prof. Dr. Rok Žarnic, a university graduate civil engineering engineer, as a candidate for the Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! In the Group of Social Democrats, we trust the choice of the coalition party DeSUS and attach ourselves to the election of the President of the Government, who has the opportunity to propose a candidate for a minister in our regime. Despite some claims or perhaps guesses that have been made in the past days, that this has always been the point where they have appointed candidates, who have simply had to be placed as part of a government team, we do not agree with this. This is one of the pillars that we place in the Group of Social Democrats on the importance near the top of this scale. From the questions asked by the candidates for a minister on the competent working body, it is possible to understand the breadth and set of questions that we expect today's candidate to find appropriate answers in the role of minister. Or, above all, professional. Among its challenges, the candidate identified such projects in the field of environment, space, public services and investment. The intensive implementation of cohesion projects for the environment, with proactive cooperation with local communities and the revision of Natura 2000 sites, which requires particular attention and, in particular, sensitivity, is also an important focus in view of yesterday's debate in this Chamber. It is also important to step up the preparation of priority national spatial plans and to actively cooperate with the municipalities in the preparation of municipal plans where local communities face major problems. On the list of its challenges, the candidate also cited the chimney problem and, of course, the implementation of corrective measures, the Court of Auditors' audits. His visions are also boldly set up until 2012. It states the solution to the waste problem, the adjusted approach to the exploitation of natural resources, the third transport axis to be placed in space by then, of course, adding that coordinated activities will be needed to achieve all the development axes that are expressed as a condition for further development, as well as to call this more coherent regional development. It also devotes a great deal of attention to the project Preventing natural disasters, i.e. prevention in this area, building public water infrastructure, regulating transport relations, including tourist areas, laying the groundwork for revitalising smaller historical cores and converting them into protected settlements for older citizens. The important work is, of course, also awaiting him on a project where the former Minister was also very active and, we believe, also successful, it is a terminal for liquefiing natural gas in Žavaje. We know that next week it will be important to decide on the decision of the Inter-Resort Commission or the proposal at a government meeting, where we hope that today's Minister candidate will already be in the role of Minister of Environment and Space. In the Group of the Social Democrats we will vote in favour of the appointment of Prof. Rok Žarnic as Minister of Environment and Space, we express our support, our high expectations and we wish him a successful job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you. Today, we have the completion of a government team with the new minister. In the introduction, I might point out that this proposal is not actually consistent with what led to the discharge of the former or the resignation of the former minister. The basis for this change process in this area was the call of the Court of Auditors to the Prime Minister to do something about this area because of the failure to comply with the requirements of the Court of Auditors report or from poor corrective measures. The explanation for the replacement of the former Minister was based on the findings of the Court of Auditors because the recovery was not carried out within the prescribed 90-day period. Notwithstanding the fact that the President of the Government later referred to political action, it was written in the explanatory memorandum, and now that he has proposed a new candidate, we would also expect him to prescribe a time limit for regulating the situation brought by the Court of Auditors' call. Here the fundamental question is now whether this new candidate for minister will receive 30 days from the President of the Government to remedy this matter, as requested by the Court of Auditors, whether he will get 90 days or get the full time until the end of his term of office. This is not what Professor Rok Žarnic wrote in this explanation of the proposal for his candidacy, not in this thorough one. Many other matters have been written, many other things that are important, indicating that the biography of this candidate is rich, but there is no fundamental argument or underlying reason to resolve the former minister in this justification of the candidacy. I think that this is one of the shortcomings or fundamental shortcomings of this proposal from the Prime Minister. The other thing I might have warned you about is that there are actually a few other people on the current government team who would deserve such an act, such as the action of the Prime Minister of the Government. During the current suit, we have ministers on the team who are suspected of corruption. Even on the same day, some have lost their second opportunity twice or even more. In this government team, we have ministers who put pressure on independent institutions, such as regulators, who put pressure on supervisory councils to prevent timely withdrawal of funds from European funds and so on. We also have ministers who do not respect the Court of Auditors' demands, and nothing has happened in this case, as did the Minister who was proposed for discharge. We have a minister who intervened in college, in fact in the institution of civil society, in order for a change to take place there, and that was not sufficient reason for any step. We also have a minister who is objectively responsible for a tragic matter that happened 10 days ago, where all indications that there was a violation of the law in this process, that some statements of pressure have been made, including a political party, to withdraw certain things from this process so that they do not deal with these bolmastifi and similar matters, nothing happens. Last but not least, when police intervention or police action occurred at this tragic event, that he was not invited to this location either, say, a state prosecutor or an investigative judge, the police would probably have to call one or both institutions or members of this institution to examine and identify the circumstances of this tragic event. None of this has happened and no one has been responsible for this defect, for this error, and probably for the breach in this process is – not objectively or subjectively – responsible. We believe that in this case such matters should be carried out as usual in all other cases. We also have an anti-crisis group of ministers that has not prepared measures to get out of the crisis in time. Even today, we have only considered a strategy, just a principled document and, unfortunately, no government or coalition has proposed any decision to commit the Government and those ministers who have obligations in this exit strategy to prepare in a timely manner the measures to be taken by the Government and the National Assembly in order to make this step of the exit from the crisis. In short, we are in an interesting situation, the President of the Government said that politics must act as a representative, that it must actually be some selection, some choice of the best people that will help move Slovenia forward from the crisis and also above the crisis, is said in the area of positive indicators. However, the fundamental question is: What representation do we have, and who is responsible for such representation, such a team? I think that we have come to a point where there is actually a need for a different consideration in this area when these shortcomings need to be judged differently and it is probably difficult with some partial, individual measures to ensure that this train, which is supposed to move forward, actually moves forward. With some partial change in the area where there is probably no significant added value to the exit strategy, it will be difficult to achieve this step. I think that the President of the Government should, if he wants to achieve this tectonic shift from the abyss to the surface and take further steps to change a lot of things on this team as well. In short, the situation in which we are is not simple and some things need to be put on different bases in both personal and other areas, on other grounds, also through broader human resources solutions and in fact with more concrete commitments. I think that matters should be defined more firmly with deadlines, content, obligations and ultimately with sanctions. In this case, when such stories occur, such cases also occur with human resources sanctions and substitutions. The coalition has already said that they leave the decision on possible replacements of ministers to Prime Minister Pahor. I think it would be time, after a year and a few months of operation of this coalition, for a good audit, for a good conclusion, for a "swot analysis" of the operation of individual departments and individual ministers and then for a proper solution in this area. Without replacing people, it is free to take any action because it all ends up in the same mill and in the same way and the priorities remain exactly the same. Our most successful ministers are where they deal with the hobby issue, not professionally. As for the candidate for the new minister, we did not vote for Mr Žarnic in the hiring. We are of the opinion that the government coalition is the one who has to propose and take these human resources decisions, and we will not vote "for" or "against" today in the proposed candidate. However, we expect the Prime Minister of the Government to be equally critical in the assessment of other ministers, and will measure their actions, dealing with the same vats as the Minister, who proposed a discharge early this year. We are not in favour of any person being approached in such a double way that for some there are fatal small shortcomings and this is doomed by closing completely all their possibilities, while for others there are many and many times looking through their fingers, and for significantly worse shortcomings, mistakes and violations as have been identified by Mr Erjavac. In fact, I believe that this human resources paradigm and this attitude towards the staff, towards the people, must be put on a level that has been said a lot about which has been discussed and which is supposed to become the foundation in this human resources area, the concept of the functioning of this coalition. Unfortunately, we find that things are going in a completely different direction. The fundamentals become small matters, and in key matters, members of the government, ministers, are often overlooked through their fingers. This is not good for the Slovenian public, not for the development of this country and not for the performance of the tasks and obligations of members of the ministerial team. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. This point is not intended, however, for different discussions on the entire ministerial assembly, nor for controversy. I had no intention of politicising it at all, but if the predecessor took more than ten minutes to process the entire government, as he always likes to mention, he also mentioned the minister who was in the corruption and clientele procedure, in the investigation, I will also say the sentence myself. Of course it's in the investigation, but in the investigation of the commission that you invented. One of your Members, however, is in serious investigation because he is being investigated by serious bodies, including international bodies. We will truly support the candidate for the Minister for Environment and Space in the Parliamentary Group. In view of its presentation to the Committee on the Environment and Space, we can expect a new way of managing it, more dialogue, faster decision-making, with a good deal of emphasis on the regulation of inspection services. The Ministry of Environment and Space is not a simple ministry, it is important, with long-term effects. There are many interests, including within the government. We expect that the Minister of Environment and Space will also respect the decisions of the National Assembly, for example, the Resolution for the Northern Adriatic. We supported it almost entirely, with one vote against. We believe that he will also have the support of the President of the Government in supporting this resolution. We really want to support this government in the Group of Members, but we expect bilateral support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u133	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers and Ministers [[President of the Government has just left]] Dear fellows and fellows! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we listened in the presentation of the candidate for Minister with all responsibility to the current situation and the problem that is knocking on our door. At the presentation of Mr Žarnic and from additional questions and answers, we have obtained most of the information and guidance needed for our decision-making. We assessed the candidate for minister as a person, as an expert and as a politician. I must admit that he has also given us a positive surprise at his presentation and responses, and in particular has shown that he will be able to solve the problems, which we are pleased to see as all the work in the Ministry of the Environment has been delayed since the beginning of this mandate. There have been a lot of problems and a lot of work that will have to be done immediately and problems will begin to be resolved. After all, the environment is not a cough. The Minister of the Environment deals with matters that seriously affect the lives of each individual and society as a whole, both at the local, national and global levels, and therefore needs a good and professional leader and, above all, a leader who wants to contribute to solving problems. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we hope, therefore, that the new Minister of Environment and Space will start to do his work with all eagerness and that this will be done at a high level of expertise. We want our living space to be a clean environment, as it is also a prerequisite for a healthy and human life. We hope that the new Minister will advocate the preservation of the environment, the prudent use of space, the rational regulation of space, the protection of water, air and soil, renewable energy sources and so on. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group believe that environmental policy and ethics must build on a symbiosis between man and nature, which must be respected and protected. We therefore expect the Minister to put forward efforts to ensure a healthy quality of life for people in a clean environment, which must take precedence over a materialistic consumer model, and also to take precedence over the international environmental contract over trade rules in order to ensure the responsibility of large companies for the environmental and social impacts they have in Slovenia and around the world. Regardless of the fact that the candidate must be supported by the ruling coalition, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we decided not to oppose the appointment of Dr. Rok Žarnic as Minister of Environment and Space. I have no doubt that Professor Roko Žarnic's candidate would not be elected, so I wish him, on behalf of the SLS Group, to perform this difficult task successfully in this difficult situation we are in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u135	Thank you so much for saying that. Once again a very nice greeting to everyone in the hall, especially the Minitar Congregation! Colleagues and colleagues in the DeSUS Group will, of course, support the application for an environmental minister, Prof. Rok Žarnic, a university graduate civil engineering engineer. According to our assessment, it is an expert who will be able to take over, successfully manage the challenging and wide area represented by the Ministry of Environment and Space. We believe that with its wide range of knowledge, talents and rich experiences, he will be able to steer happily among the difficult tasks ahead. We expect him to be able to carry out his visions of managing the ministry, as presented on the home work body, on the Committee on Environment and Space. Above all, we want him to be able to improve the efficiency of the ministry, solve the problem of waste and water resources and the third transport axis. As we very well assess his vision of how he will tackle the following issues: management of municipal waste, nuclear waste, implementation of external air quality rehabilitation, preparation of a water management plan, a programme to build public water infrastructure by 2020, intensive implementation of cohesion projects for the environment, with proactive cooperation with local communities. We also want him to succeed with a good team in rewinding the anti-floating system, the Nature area and, of course, the construction of the pomura water system. We also welcome its purpose, to step up the preparation of priority state spatial plans and, in particular, to cooperate actively with municipalities for the preparation of municipal spatial plans and to complete the mass property valuation project as a basis for the preparation of property taxation. We also agree with its assessment of the importance of implementing cohesion projects, addressing the consequences of natural disasters and organising appropriate preventive measures. In particular, we wish him to be able to implement corrective measures for the Court of Auditors' audit. Finally, on behalf of the DeSUS Group, I would like to express my disappointment and indignation at the insulting appearances of individuals we have witnessed at the time before and, of course, during the presentation of Prof. Rok Žarnic's candidate. In the DeSUS Group, we have no doubt about the election of the professor for the Minister of Environment and Space, which is why we sincerely congratulate him in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor, on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u137	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, ministerial council. In the Slovenian National Party, we respect all people who are proud of their homeland, who are patriots and who are not ashamed of their homelands. For this reason, the candidate for minister has all the respect for his standing and his pride, when he made it clear that he is also a Croatian citizen. Also in the Slovenian National Party we are patriots and proud to be Slovenians and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, so for the Slovenian National Party there can be no Slovenian minister in the Slovenian Government who is a national of any other country. In his work as Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Minister will face some unresolved problems between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia. When his decision is needed, he will be, whether he wants it or not, contrary to his interests. For us, the Slovenian National Party, however, only one interest is important: the fair interests of Slovenes and Slovenes and Slovenian citizens. In the Slovenian National Party, we will vote against the appointment of Dr Žarnic as Minister for both reasons.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Once again, good evening to the ministers and ministers. It is nice that the team will come to support its future colleague, because also in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are confident that Mr Roko Žarnic will receive support and that this will be an important one of the key ministries in this country, as soon as possible, to act as it is appropriate and this country deserves to be dealt with in an up-to-date manner. We have before us a proposal for a candidate for the Minister for Environment and Space. We will give uniform support to the candidate at the parliamentary club, as I have already said, because we are convinced that according to the presentation, he is a competent expert and the right person to take over this extremely demanding and important resource. The gentleman of the future minister, this moment of candidate, surely awaits a great deal of work. If we go first to a story that has undermined confidence in its predecessor, there are many problems in recycling some waste in this country. The strategy for the whole of Slovenia is not one, it is not complete. Apparently, there are 2 million people abroad who sometimes cover or belong to a single major modern regional waste management centre, 7, 8, 10, according to some data, 15 responses or 15 regional centres. We talked and agreed that one or two waste incinerators were sufficient for all of Slovenia. At this point, three smaller centres have been operating, and most of the problems have not yet been solved. We would also need a single strategy in the area of waste separation, collection and recycling. There are already some examples of good practice within the country, and this, I think, needs to be extended to the whole country. In addition, it is necessary to determine whether the waste repositories system, packagings as we would like to, whether some in this market have a privileged, monopolistic position, recycling efficiency and further waste treatment is not what they wanted. There are also plenty of problems that Mr Žarnic will have to face in the area of space regulation. We are pleased that, for example, in today's Finances, we have read his very important statement that he is counting on the greater efficiency of the Ministry's employees, which is extremely extensive, since there are almost 2,000 people in this ministry. With the adoption of the Spatial Planning Act 2007, the conditions for regulating the space have increased dramatically, I could say, even worse. And this country has not had so many problems since its independence in the area of putting objects in a space, whatever, so much trouble, so much bureaucratic, unreasonable procedures as this moment, and, on the contrary, so many of the best agricultural land left behind. I am convinced that, together with the relevant legislation, together with the Minister and the Ministry, we can find the right answers. The law on which I speak has also focused its name on planning interventions into space, and reflects the fact that in Slovenia we have renounced the regulation of space as a series of coordinated activities leading to the conduct of society with space. The absence of the will and the ability to coordinate policies, programmes and interventions is a key source of all the other problems perceived in the space by both citizens and investors and operators of development programmes. After two decades of socio-economic change in Slovenia, the ability of the system of space regulation, the protection of community rights and the exercise of public good is one of the key tasks of space regulation and therefore our assessment is that it has gone backwards. Since, even in our country, there is no specific responsibility for regulating the space between the individual regulators who have consolidated their role in the system by law, and for the one who would take over the key one, to coordinate the various interests. We estimate that the time has come for change in this area, and we believe that it is possible through open debate, a critical assessment of the situation in the space and an assessment of the overall legislative framework, and in particular the operationality of the space management system, to go beyond ineffective practices and to redirect the policy of space regulation in a manner consistent with and with the spirit of sustainable development and its associated expectations. We are convinced that Mr Žarnic is the right person for this difficult task after the opinions, the answers he has given and the questions raised so far, so once again I say that we will stand by him at the Liberal Democracy Club in this regard. We are also convinced that in Slovenia it is possible to raise the level of spatial awareness and provide conditions for a more acceptable model of space use, with a higher degree of spatial culture than we have seen today. We also see the beginning of this process in today's appointment of Mr Žarnic as Minister of Environment and Space. Respectable candidate. In your work, we wish you many successes, pleasures. The resource you take is one of the most important, since in practice every day we see the importance of a clean environment and space for our society as a whole. Finally, I would like to say two small things on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we are convinced that the assessment and categorisation of individuals based on their nationality, their surname is discarded and uncivilised behaviour. To put it briefly, something distinctly innocuous. Mr. candidate, do not take this to heart, the judgment about you and your work will be created by people on the basis of your conduct and the results of your work, which we are confident in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia that we will be successful and in this difficult and responsible work you will have all our assistance and support in the field of legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u140	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u141	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Well-known ministers and ministers, dear colleagues! I will also support the proposed candidate, Prof. Rok Žarnic, because I trust my colleagues from the coalition party and their choice. Of course, I will support him because I admire his courage and admire his pride, in what way and how he presented his activity and his views on one such sensitive and very complex area, such as environmental regulation and protection. By his appearance on the committee, he showed respect for all of us Members and Members, for all those who are once in the past and still working in this area, and for the words that he will not accept revolutionary changes and that he will work in the ministry in a revolutionary way and will not change the environment in a revolutionary way, nor the regulations, but that he will in one way complete them, complement them, improve them and not lastly coordinate them, but change them. What is important; it is a person who has a vision and can also dream this vision and realize it through dreams. Throughout his work, he has shown that this dream lives and regularly proves and proves. Where is this guarantee that he will also be able to realize this dream and the vision he has and presented it to us? A man who was a mentor to 60 young graduates, a mentor to six Masters and four Doctors of Science, had to work very hard with these people and, finally, showed how much he trusted people and human resources. That is why I, and probably others, can trust that, with his knowledge and with his experience, he will also, in some way, do this in his further work, of course, if he is confirmed. Why would I support the proposed candidate? I will also support the proposed candidate because he worked in the field of cultural heritage. Those of you who have worked so far in the field of cultural heritage know how highly complex work is, how much patience, how much tolerance and great distance you need to work in this area in fact and how much perseverance and how good will it is to show that some projects end. He will show in this area how the actual type of cultural objects from cultural heritage will give life in one way and how he will show that this cultural heritage will not be just one part of the dead capital that stands just like that, do not need to be. Why would I support this candidate? I'm going to support this candidate because in cobiss, he's just blurry about his articles and contributions. This is said to be a person who likes to show and show to all others his opinions and ways of thinking and also to teach others. I think that's how he's going to show and show trust in all of us, and I believe and I hope that he won't disappoint me or you or you. Through its implementation, it has shown how high its behaviour and knowledge also has in the area of conservation and sustainable development, how and how it thinks in a sustainable way, and I therefore expect that it will not disappoint us all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u142	Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. We will evaluate the Minister's work after his work when the Ministry takes over and starts working. There is definitely a lot of work done in this area. Also yesterday, in a six-hour debate on the use or non-use of European funds which the government unfortunately did not make use of in 2009. It has been found that there is a great void in this area. As usual, it is the coalition that elects the minister. Our leader of the parliamentary group said that in the Slovenian People's Party we will not oppose this, but we will monitor and evaluate his work later. On this occasion, however, I would like to say a few words, especially about the entire team that leads and represents it. This candidate has been proposed by the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Pahor, and this is also his autonomous right. I ask the President of the Government if it is true that he sees no further than the end of Vienna, because I believe it would be a national disaster if he accidentally turned to someone from the Maribor swimming pool, someone from the University of Maribor. Is there another university in this country and other personnel from other parts except the central Ljubljana region and the power center that is just happening here? Last time the President of the Government spoke about one of the most important projects in his performance, this is regionalisation. Today, at the previous point, when we talked about some of the papers called the exit strategy by the Government, the Framework Programme for Structural Reforms also writes, and nowhere was it seen that the regions would be created. Although we all know in this country, apart from Pahor's team not to do much more with regionalisation, it is much cheaper to lead this country better. It remains an open question whether or not it will even come from below, and what will then be around regionalisation, because, as the rest of the non-centred part is now ignored, it is simply incomprehensible. By the way, the mayor of Maribor, the second largest Slovenian city, recently said that with such leadership the country would fall apart within ten years. Looks like it's gonna happen sooner. By the way, the European Capital of Culture is only supposed to be a Slovenian project, which includes a huge number of Slovenian cities. In recent times, six projects at the Ministry of Culture have fallen for incomprehensible reasons. Apparently, even someone at the Ministry said that if it were in Ljubljana, it would "go through". In short, the abuses that are also taking place in this way are simply incomprehensible. Or even more. All the council groups in the second largest city are still bitter, except for SD, of course, and all the others, including the recruitment to the supervisory councils that you send from Ljubljana to all state institutions [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u144	Mr. Pukšič, would you say, please, what do you think of the candidate for Minister?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u145	Yes, Mr Vice-President, this is all about the team and the proposals led by the President of the Government, Mr Pahor. And I would point out that the new minister, who will be elected today, would not repeat the same mistakes made by most of the Pahor's government. However, I would like to hear from the candidate, not now, but in the future whether he will also set up a so-called European fund-raising counter at the Ministry. Otherwise, I have already requested a response from the President of the Government in the so-called exit strategy; of course, none of the ministers who have spent all their time have responded. I hope this happens as soon as possible. So, as far as I am concerned, I will not object to the appointment, and it would be time for this team with the President of the Government to see some meter across and on the other side of the fence of Ljubljana and Zoran Jankovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u146	Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! After all this turbulent political period, which has been resolved since Mr Viktor Erjavac's proposed discharge, until today, when we have the appointment of a new Minister for Space and Environment, I am actually pleased that this seat in the Chamber is not intended for me. Otherwise, we share this satisfaction in the parliamentary group and also in our party, the Democratic Party of the pensioners of Slovenia, the satisfaction that we have once again shown full responsibility for the recruitment of the government team by proposing a good candidate. Prof. Dr. Roko Žarnic is a reliable candidate who deserves this place today, a place to swear and sign. Dr. Žarnic convinced us on the parental committee and also at other meetings that he is a wide knowledgeer of the problem of space and environment, that he is also a wide knowledgeer of issues in Slovenia, that he also knows the problem of local communities that deal directly with problems of space and environment. This makes us very happy and convinces us that Mr Roko Žarnic will be a good minister for space and the environment. There was a lot of noise today. Some are disturbed by the fact that Dr. Roko Žarnić is a dual citizen or has dual citizenship. We all know that there are many top athletes who have dual citizenship in Slovenia, but we cannot say for any of these athletes that they do not represent the Republic of Slovenia in the same manner with all their powers, knowledge and sports skills. So we do not mind that Mr Roko Žarnic is a dual citizen, because he will not lastly swear today as Slovenian Minister for Space and Environment. He will make an oath stating that he will strive with all his knowledge and abilities for growth, development and progress and prosperity in our country. And that's why it's also one of the confirmations, and we shouldn't be intimidated, even if it's a different opinion. Today, with this oath, we can once again offer our sincere thanks to Mr Erjavac for leading this ministry, regretting that what has happened has happened. However, we are convinced that this recruitment of the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Pensioners was also good that Mr Viktor Erjavec worked with all his strengths and knowledge that he was a good leader of this ministry. Let's say that Dr. Rok Žarnić's candidacy is some kind of patch for our client by Prime Minister Borut Pahor, a patch in the sense that he listened to our proposal to meet a good candidate and a good associate in the candidate. And we are confident that in this way also Mr. Prof. Roko Žarnic will do a quality job that will be entrusted to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, respectable minister. I'm going to repeat the sentence from the hiaring, which has raised pressure on some of our colleagues. The candidate is certainly acceptable to the Minister after professionalism, but citizenship is only one of the segments that does not convince us in the Slovenian National Party that it will be determined when it is necessary to put itself on the side of the Republic of Slovenia. It is therefore clear why we will vote against it. The EU policy is aimed at the sharing of dual citizenship. In May 1963, the Convention on the Limitation of Double Citizenship was signed in Strasbourg and the Convention on the Exchange of Information on the acquisition of Double Nationalities was signed a year later. Slovenia tolerates the dual nationality of its citizens and also grants it in accordance with the legislation without bilateral agreements concluded. The candidate for the post of Director-General of the Police must, in addition to the conditions, fulfil the condition that he does not have dual citizenship and must make a declaration that he is a citizen of Slovenia and is not a dual citizen. That's it! The candidate for a grant for the purposes of the Ministry of Defence and Police must also attach to the public tender a declaration that he does not have dual citizenship. That's it! A candidate for a police officer shall not have dual citizenship. This is obviously not important for ministers, probably also for the Minister of Interior and Defence. It only applies to lower rankings than we can see, and to students. Ministers who have access to all classified documents may, by your logic, have all possible citizenship and that does not bother anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u150	Mr Lazslo Gönch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues. In opening, I would like to say that I will support the candidate for the Minister for Environment and Space. There's more than one reason. In particular, I would focus on the fact that it has been repeatedly stressed today that the Ministry, which is very difficult in terms of competences and activities, is interdisciplinary, there is no doubt about this, and therefore it is of no doubt important that this ministry is occupied by an expert during this period and given the situation. Although I don't know Dr. Janić personally, based on the statements he made in recent weeks and on the literature I have been able to examine, I estimate that he will be appropriate. The challenge will be great and difficult. I'd only mention two problems from my jurisdiction, I'll say. One thing is that there is a great deal of spirits in the pomur region, and above all in the border area. It's an unfortunate accommodation in the Motavajevac biogas room. This project has been mentioned many times here in the National Assembly. I don't want to talk about this now for long and wide. In this regard, the two ministers made a comparatively critical assessment, but nothing actually happened in favour of the local life. However, I believe that Mr New Minister will get to know this issue as soon as possible, at least one question: in this case, there is no doubt that only the interest of capital, contrary to the interest of the local community, has prevailed, even though there were some mistakes in the local community, but I believe that the matter is relatively complex. In this case, however, one general legal issue and the shortcomings in the fact that emissions of stench in the legal system of the Republic of Slovenia are not regulated, this has also proved to be true in the case of Motovačevci, and therefore the environmental inspectors cannot actually exercise control over these types of emissions. I believe that this is also an important task for the new Minister and is relatively up to date. Finally, I would mention just one more matter, and Mr Žarnic, as a candidate, mentioned in his statement certain inconsistencies within the Ministry, which he will now take over. I would mention only one deficiency which could probably be relatively quickly rectified, many times not responding to letters from local communities. I cite only one example, or very acute for the area where I come from. It is the construction of the missing parts of the reconstruction of the high water dam along the Mura River. In this regard, two letters were received by the Beltinci Congregation about a year ago. Unfortunately, there is no answer to this day, but the matter is, I'll say, extremely fine. These are just like mosaics two problems that are sort of peripheral, but still important. I hope the new minister will actually be part of the task. I wish him great luck in this, and as I said before, I am joining those we will support in getting this opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u152	Mr. Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will support the candidate for Minister of Environment and Space proposed by the President of the Government. According to the assessment of the Members and Members and also the public, Prof. Roko Žarnic has performed more than successfully the presentation before his mother's working body. His expertise and commitment give us the basis for optimism so that a very complex and substantively demanding resource can lead successfully. In order to be able to design and implement a policy of principle in an interesting, highly conflicted area, from which, on the one hand, we expect the successful protection of nature and the preservation of some good resources, while the affected and interested expect themselves, for their companies, for their municipalities, the energy and transport lobby and for others quick and favourable solutions. Slovenia is the same as the whole world, despite a slightly better starting point on the environment, ahead of important decisions in the field of transport infrastructure and policy, energy, water management and waste management, migration policy and much more. In all these areas, the Minister will have to assess where and what are the priorities, where the policy already adopted needs to be implemented consistently, which will not be much, but where policies and objectives need to be put in place. I wish him every success. May I remind myself, with a sincere desire for success, that this will depend not only on the minister, but also on the team he will work with to a large extent. Not only the lower cabinet, but all organisational units, according to my data with more than 1,400 employees, and I should be allowed to express my opinion at least part of these employees, that the working atmosphere and relations so far have not always been the best, that the employees wanted more mutual cooperation, a more creative atmosphere and much less respect for only the formal hierarchy. The right motivation for work and good organisation, as well as the fair assessments of work that promote but not demotivate work, are half success. In my parliamentary work, I did not deal intensively and in depth with many areas of the Ministry's work. However, with one question, at least occasionally, I have been very busy and busy for 15 years. This is the area of housing relations and in their context also the situation and rights of tenants, especially tenants, in denationalised apartments. I do not know if the future minister is aware of this issue and still agrees with my findings that denationalisation and housing reform have personally affected and caused injustice to thousands of former housing rights holders in social housing, including those who, due to the return of these apartments, could not exercise the same rights as the tenants of other social housing. This has made them more merciful and unmerciful than the latter, left to the new owners, who in a short time wanted to compensate the tenants for the economic objectives that had been affected in a different social order. Thus they became insecure even in the enjoyment of their housing rights, including legal increases in their rent, they were not reimbursed large investments in the modernisation of their apartments, the right to a safe lease was guaranteed only by the holders of housing rights at the time of the change of ownership and their spouse, and not by all other family members. A little simplistic, any judgment of the Constitutional or Supreme Court took some of the previously promised rights away from them, and they became increasingly lawless. My parliamentary group and I, personally in each mandate and under all the ministers, have tabled laws or amendments to regulate their status and rights, usually with little success. Not even the annual reports of the Ombudsman were helpful. We will see if this time the assessment of the European Committee on Human Rights at the Council of Europe, which, on the basis of a collective complaint by the European Union of NGOs, under all the possibilities of our Government explaining and objecting, has found that Slovenia, with the position of tenants in denationalised apartments, has seriously violated many European social instruments. Therefore, Slovenia was also invited to act. I hope that this will also happen and that even under the new minister they will not propose a formal approach and a bureaucratic attitude that does not understand and take into account the plight of people who have been looking for solutions for the injustices that have been caused to them for 18 years. For Slovenia as a country, this may not be the most important question, but for several thousand particularly affected, many have also become seriously ill because of the injustices committed, and this is also an important issue for Slovenia's reputation as a legal and social state. It is not alone, but it is among the important existential rather than the political issues that some parties like to deal with. If I wish to make a successful appointment and start my work, I will inform the new Minister that I will soon ask him a question on these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u154	Mr. Daniel Krivec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, respectable minister! I have no doubt that today we will confirm Professor Rok Žarnic as the new Minister of the Environment. I also think he's a suitable candidate. He also responded very specifically in hiaring, and I think there is a rare one on the professional side, which in their presentation had a vision that was in the direction that was needed for this field. At the outset, I would like to start by telling him that the Minister has become a minister since the first day, that he does not have a similar case to the minister before him who did not want it, and that when he became Minister for the Environment and Space, it was unfortunately too late, because the problems had accumulated and the problems had become too serious, so that he also had to, unfortunately, resign, although in some cases he had done his job well, which I thank him for. However, the initial part, when certain things could be done at the Ministry, has somehow been delayed in my opinion. I think that the candidate for Minister Prof. Roko Žarnic is also a suitable candidate because it comes from some of the professions and experiences he has acquired over the past period as a construction engineer who has devoted a lot of work to materials, analyses, constructions, which are found in his CV, rehabilitation, maintenance of buildings, management of waste materials and through this also sustainable development. All of these are positive advantages that he will be able to apply when he sits at the seat of this Ministry. His presentation, where he has put great emphasis on the preservation of cultural heritage in relation to the advantage that this preservation also entails for the development of tourism in our area, seems to me a positive sign that man knows what he is talking about. His work in the projects within the construction sector and others has also convinced me that he is an expert in this area. His idea of a cost-effective and rational use of energy through new advanced materials, the use of wood, also seems to me to be the right approach at this point in terms of sustainable use. The answers he gave regarding the reduction of CO2 emissions and in this relation to transport were not very specific, but he is aware of what is good. It also introduces new technologies that were widely discussed in its presentation and renewable energy sources, including using secondary raw materials, which was the problem of waste and others, which the new candidate is aware of, convinces me that he will be able to tackle this problem properly. He also talked about measures to limit energy consumption, which I think is the right approach, because there is too much talk about only new sources of energy and too little about measures to limit consumption and the quality use of existing energy sources. A great deal of emphasis has also been placed on cultural and natural heritage in terms of sustainable use, both for tourism and other sectors. That's what I think is right. His thinking, which I read in some newspapers, that he is concerned about the inefficiency of employees and that he sees the biggest problem with the fact that the Ministry of Environment and Space is too large and with its agencies, I think that this first conclusion is correct. And also in the debate on the Committee, we have pointed out that within the Ministry of the Environment and the premises of individual agencies, the responsibilities of individual entities within the Ministry are so dispersed that individual activities are unsuccessful, inconsistent and too long-term. I am so pleased that the Minister is also aware of these warnings and is taking them seriously. He proposed a 1% reduction plan. It should be borne in mind that the Ministry of Environment and Space currently has 1,486, says almost 1,500 employees, which I think is a large number, if we know that only a small part of the Ministry has 300 employees. An important part of my memory was its debate on preventive action in all areas. For a long time, the Committee on Environment and Space, as well as the National Assembly, has held a debate on whether we are preventing or curating in certain areas causing serious damage in the event of natural disasters. I hope that the candidate for a minister will also seriously implement the principle of some preventive measures, particularly in the water field, where indeed things are in some way, we can say, also to the bulk. So this concept of prevention:smoking, I think it's very correct on his part. Thinking about how to deal with waste problems also somehow prevents me from finding solutions that have not been possible in some way so far. I am concerned or very careful about how he will try to establish a link within the Ministry of Environment and Space’s departments, especially the responsibility of individual departments, which will be crucial for the functioning of this department in the future. Above all, it will be important how it will establish a link between the ministries, because we know that for certain spatial placements, the cooperation of all resources is important, and I think that so far, both in the Government and in this department, is essential. For placing both roads and some economic projects in space is multidisciplinary. The Minister of Environment and Space can be the key here to connect all influential structures so that these projects are more quickly initiated for implementation. The housing issue was mentioned. He also has a lot of work to do in this area. It is important that he decides, and we will all monitor this closely, particularly in this direction, and find out very quickly whether the problem is the law itself or, above all, the implementation of this legislation. For if he starts working immediately on how to change all laws, I fear he will do very little in this mandate. I think it is more important that it somehow begins to deal with the effective implementation of individual legislation and with minor corrections than to put the whole thing on the table. I think he also spoke in his statements about being in favour of such an approach. I think that by getting to know him in some way as soon as he becomes a minister, he will be able to quickly determine what is more profitable or rewarding at some point. We note that all those who implement legislation in the spatial field are in some way a greater problem in the implementation of individual sub-legislative acts in the individual implementation of certain regulations than in the inadequate law itself. I think he is doing a lot of work waiting for the establishment of a positive climate in this ministry and that he will know from this space that he will occupy in some way this knowledge, which exists, is also to be used effectively. And that these bureaucratic obstacles, which are indeed a major problem in this ministry, will somehow be able to be cut off. If he succeeds, I think it will increase this efficiency very quickly. Of course, there are a number of problems that he did not have an answer to, particularly as regards municipal spatial plans, state location plans and similar matters, but I think he was correct in his replies when he said he would get to know and try to speed things up as quickly as possible. And I believe that in a very practical way he will succeed. As far as I'm concerned personally, I can say that his presentation was successful and that I do not oppose his election.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u156	Mr. Pavel Gantar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The decision of the Prime Minister of the Government to propose Dr Rok Žarnic as Minister of Environment and Space on the proposal of DeSUS is excellent and I support and, of course, support his appointment. I've known Prof. Dr. Rok Žarnic for a long time. He was active in the earthquake restoration of the Suča. I met him in various academic and professional circles, usually in connection with the sciences involved in regulating space. By the nature of his narrower profession, cooperation with a number of other professions is also highly multidisciplinary and therefore has experience. In his work he worked with spatial planners, leaders, environmental experts, so that he knows the wider scope of the Ministry of Environment and Space, there can be no doubt. It is very good, as far as I can monitor his statements and also the presentation before the committee, to list the main tasks facing Slovenian environmental and spatial policy. In addition to what my predecessor Mr Daniel Krivec added, I will not actually add, but I would add one more thing - I hope, of course, without offense, to the Ministry of Environment and Space. In fact, in my opinion, the biggest environmental problem in Slovenia at this time is only the Ministry of Environment and Space. Above all, I think that in the last five years there has been some kind of professional devolution and decommissioning in the ministry and also in administrative structures. All of this led to someone having to pay the price, although in fact former Minister Erjavec was not the first one to pay the price. It is therefore very important that action and action be taken in the field of professional and human resources renewal of the Ministry. Today, after five years, we meet people who have worked more successfully and perhaps less successfully, people everywhere. We will find them as advisers to the European Union by Balkan countries, and we will find them in the institutions of the European Commission. When we were in Denmark, we had the opportunity to meet with an excellent expert, whom, of course, I know, when I was there, which is, of course, an important colleague at the European Environment Agency, etc. We find them everywhere, we find them in industry, in Slovenian industry, in Slovenia and abroad, only at the Ministry of Environment and Space. That is why, of course, I wish to the Minister, when he is elected, I am sure that, in fact, he will be happy in the selection of staff; and these will be the most important in the beginning. Restoring and reviving the greater competence of the Minister for Environment and Space and its operational effectiveness is, of course, the most important and most pressing task at this time. In fact, some decisions will have to be made that it is no longer possible to run a policy from today to tomorrow, to propose decisions and to wait for something to happen that will burden the course of events. The course of events will not turn itself, but only with a firm and well-designed policy. From this point of view, everyone entering this business also knows for himself that he is accepting a certain risk and I am sure that with the proposal of the President of the Government this risk is relatively small, and I am also convinced that this, as I have already mentioned, is an appropriate and good choice. However, because it was said, I would like to say something about dual citizenship. Roko Žarnic will today, if elected, swear before this national assembly; he will swear to work for the benefit of all, i.e. good and for the benefit of the people, and this oath is symbolic and legally binding at the same time and is much more important than ordinary civil loyalty. From this point of view to all those who doubt this, of course, we must reject such doubts and we must consider them political and otherwise humanly incorrect. The one who swears here today will swear with his own knowledge and with what he accepts as obligations and the burden he accepts. So I must say that such an observation is unfounded. As I have said, I am pleased with this proposal and, of course, I will be happy to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u158	Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u159	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! I will, of course, be happy to support Prof. Dr. Rok Žarnic today when the vote is turned. I wish him a good job in a very difficult department. I would point out three problems, namely the issue of light pollution, the issue of putting development axes in space and the issue of the European Union's strategy for mercury, but very briefly. Three years ago, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a Regulation on the Prevention and Control of Light Pollution. It took 10 years for my first initiative in 1997 to finally see the light of the world. This was the first state-level regulation on the prevention of world-wide light pollution, so we have a primate in this area. It would be appropriate now that, after three years of implementation of this Regulation, an analysis is made and that we see how this regulation on the prevention of light pollution is actually being implemented. This Regulation certainly has a number of positive aspects, from being able to save a great deal in public enlightenment to aesthetic and other positive qualities. However, there is another aspect to this regulation. In Slovenia, we have an astronomical observatory, the fourth reference observatory for observing comets or asteroids in Europe. Experts from this astronomical observatory are working with experts from NASA's space agency. Excess light pollution could also mean closing the Slovenian window into space. In fact, this observatory has been located in the Black Top above Idria, and because of excessive light pollution it may threaten to disrupt or even disable these observations. The next important issue, which is certainly awaiting the Ministry of Environment and Space and, of course, the first of all, the new minister of Prof. Dr. Žarnic, is the more efficient and faster placement of development axes or transport and other infrastructure facilities into space. Let me just say one case. In the fourth development axis, we have part of the route between Cerknje and Gorenje village, where construction of the tunnel connection is also envisaged; a project that has been waiting for accommodation since 2006. In September 2006, the first spatial conference on the placement of this facility was held, and to date we have not taken another step to present and decide on one of the routes available here. There's a lot of work to be done here by the Ministry. Let me say that even in the previous mandate, the entire mandate of the previous government did not include any new state road, not one route of development axis, and it would not be right to end this mandate with the same result, since, on the other hand, this also means that we cannot use the European funds already approved for these projects. Finally, the European Union strategy for mercury. In March 2006, the European Union adopted a strategy on mercury, which prohibits the export and use of mercury by 2010. This strategy also discusses the storage of mercury, the rehabilitation of the environment, which is burdened with mercury and also binds the Republic of Slovenia. At the end of the previous year, the government decided to liquidate the Idrija mine of mercury, and it prepared all these documents so quickly that it forgot to write in its first draft what would happen to this mine, and with that legacy, even after the final destruction of this mine. That is why we have made great efforts to bring to this decision a further decision which obliges us to make a programme within four months, to do what after the closure and liquidation of the Idrija mine with this heritage, to do with the environmental issues related to this mercury mine, and so on. May I also say this, or may I remind the future new minister that his predecessor, Minister Janez Podobnik, 22 June 2008, in Idrija, has opened an information and research centre for mercury in accordance with and in the spirit of the European strategy for mercury; the information and research centre set up by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not been provided by the previous government, nor has this government, the resources for the systematic financing of this information centre and even after the liquidation of the mine are not yet specified exactly what the fate of this information and research centre will be. I will therefore appeal to the competent minister to take this issue seriously, by revitalising the mercury information and research centre. And as colleague Miran Potrč has already announced the question, my question to the Minister will go in the direction of the three substantive areas I have been talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u160	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u161	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. If Mr Roko Žarnic listens to this debate outside, I think he can be more and more scared. Because of the fact that we, or you are my predecessors to him, and I will probably contribute more to him myself, we have listed so many problems and problems that he will have to solve as Minister, that I believe he will probably sleep a little poorly today after this oath by the President of the National Assembly. But I think, at least after what I've been able to talk to him, or to make the impression that he's not a person who's not a person who doesn't know what's ahead of him, even without our predictions, and he's not a person who doesn't have a vision of how the problems that have accumulated over the past two decades in the Ministry of Environment and Space, gradually and with common sense, as well as with a good degree of patience and understanding of people working at the Ministry of Environment and Space, and with ministerial institutions such as the Slovenian Environment Agency, Geodetic Administration and Inspection Services. I am sorry that I could not attend the meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the place at which the candidate for Minister answered questions. However, after hearing from my colleagues and colleagues how the meeting itself took place, I believe that we have received from the candidates' replies to the Minister some perspective on the future. The fact is that the Ministry of Environment and Space in particular in the area of space regulation has experienced, with all due respect for Mr Erjavc, the lowest level of implementation or space regulation, because in 2007, when the Spatial Planning Act was adopted, we in some way renounced space management. I am sure there will be one, although we have heard that there should be no general changes to the legislation, but I am sure that space legislation will have to be thoroughly regulated. I am particularly pleased with his statement, which we have been able to read in Finance today, is to ensure that he directs the ministry's service as an open service, which will receive and monitor all public, professional and lay public reactions to environmental and spatial problems. It is said that the Ministry will open up in the spirit of the Aarhus Convention to all those who wish to participate actively and positively in addressing environmental, environmental and spatial issues. Kolga Saiovic has previously said some very important words about what we are reminded of by experts in the field of space regulation, architects, landscape architects, geography and a whole range of others, urbanists, of course, who claim that at the end of this law on the placement of infrastructure facilities in the space being prepared, the last step is the capitulation of our government and the country, our governments and the state in the area of space regulation. It is unfortunate that, despite the fact that we are well aware that, by law and especially by implementing legislation in the area of space regulation, we have entered a blind street, do not solve things by opening or turning the street and going on a normal road, we prefer to go and go to a blind street by doing another little blind man on this blind street, because we think that with such short-term solutions to solve long-term and very deep problems. I would like to point out that, in particular, in the field of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the implementation of the Resolution on Regulatory Activities, which obliges us to monitor, by the way, what the new laws actually mean and what their effects are. If the Spatial Planning Act were to verify the effects of this law after six, seven months, they would find that this law was a big hole in the water and that as soon as we pulled our finger out of it, it recededed and straightened out. We have done nothing with this law, we have only complicated the procedures and have come to the point that we now have a large majority of municipalities in Slovenia that do not have municipal spatial plans, municipalities that do not have this area regulated, and I believe that they will not have these documents by the end of this year. I wish the Minister a great deal, a great deal of happiness and a lot of energy, which he seems to be not lacking. However, I think that the Committee on the Environment and Space will be, after experience so far, indicating that we are certainly not the opposition and coalition in this committee, but we are colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members, who are willing and with some very uniform aim to improve the situation in the area that we are covering. Thus, we will certainly support the future minister and help him with the procedures that we will also be taking through legislative activities in the National Assembly. I wish him good luck, and I'll be very happy if he gets unanimous support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u162	Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u163	The general impression today is good. I think we've all been given a good impression about the Minister's candidate, Dr. Jarnić. That sometimes means maybe something else. Dr. Gjerkesh, who is here with us today, and he knows that, in his first media responses, he made a very bad impression on me. However, by his ministerial action, he proved that he was more than competent and a good minister for local self-government and regional development. I believe it will be the same with Dr. Jarnić and he will be a good member of our government team. I would also like to point out his own prediction that he will form the Communications Office as what we have so far in the Ministry of the Environment and Space have greatly missed, because the affected, either when it comes to interventions into the natural environment, or when their rights have been affected by infrastructure, have not been fully involved in procedures in accordance with the Aarhus Convention which requires - not only cooperation but also the right to co-decision for all those affected by such procedures by States. This ministry is an extremely demanding ministry. On the days when he was looking for a candidate for minister, we heard that a number of times. It is also necessary because in its content it combines three extremely difficult areas, which are also among the cities in a marked systemic conflict: the area of dwellings, where we know that in the past it has been insufficient to define Slovenia as a distinct ownership model of housing, since we have as much as 94% of all housing units as a result of the privatisation of the former social property under the housing law. Such a quantity of equity makes it impossible to develop a smart rental market and this must be our priority, because the new generations no longer have the benefits of their parents, when they were able to buy back their former social assets for 10,000 German brands, today the amounts, investments in solving the housing problem are significantly higher and require debt for 20 or even 30 years. We must find an effective response to this challenge as a social democratic government in this country, with a strong intervention and strengthening of the rent market in our country. Another time. Space and what is often required in the area of space is often in a marked conflict with what we want to do in the area of the environment. The candidate will undoubtedly notice that in the National Assembly many times about the environment and space are spoken mainly by the mayors between us. And that's not bad in itself. I must say that many of them in this area are greatly appreciated because they show high competence because they have to meet and deal with these problems every day in the management of their congregations. However, this aspect is the natural aspect of any policy that wishes to ensure the most dynamic development in its place, and much less the question of how we will adequately protect our natural environment in these interventions. I would like to give the Minister or the Minister's candidate a warning that perhaps one of the systemic problems we have embedded in the legislation is the issue of assessing the environmental impact. They are ordered by investors, but of course investors choose the one who prepares the study. That is why these studies are often - if I may say so, they lack adequate objectivity in the real answer to the question of what an intervention into space will mean to the quality of the environment. I agree with what the elder of our parliamentary group, Miran Potrč, said when he pointed out that there will be a need to build a new culture of cooperation within the Ministry of the Environment and Space, and thousands of officials at this Ministry will be adequately involved in the process of meeting the great challenges ahead of us in this area. My experience with this ministry is very poor after this official salary. She showed that typical, bureaucratic face of an official who often refuses to understand the problems and insists on the commas, dots and paragraphs so that some things that today strongly degrade or may degrade the quality of our environment cannot be solved. Minister Žarnic, when he is Minister, will undoubtedly see great interest in both me and many of us for climate change. 70% of Slovenians consider climate change to be the greatest threat of the 21st century. 66% of Slovenes, according to Eurobarometer research, believe that climate change can have a positive impact on the Slovenian economy. I'm in the middle of it myself. I believe that there is an extremely demanding process ahead of us if we are to achieve the goals that we set ourselves as part of the international community in order to prevent the further warming of our planet, as low as possible below 2 degrees above the average temperatures in the pre-industrial period. We have adopted a declaration on climate change in the National Assembly and the last chapter of this declaration contains a number of measures that we want to take in cooperation with the Government in order to define the effective transition of Slovenia to a low-carbon society, in order to achieve a planned reduction in emissions from transport, energy, waste and agriculture through the polluting sectors. I am convinced that this is indeed an exceptional opportunity for the Slovenian economy to be able to also with Slovenian knowledge in this area - last but not least, Dr. Žarnic participated in the project of a group dealing with construction materials, which play a key role in reducing energy losses in heating buildings; therefore, this can be one of those areas in which we can significantly strengthen our global competitiveness. In short, I want to be his own ally on ambitious plans and his ministerial path. I wish him great happiness, and I hope that we will succeed together in the field of his work.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u164	Mr. Peter Verlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Respectable coalition! But there's only one thing to admit. Even if the candidate has all the professional competences, and I can see that no one here in the hall is challenging him, there is one problem. And that's the problem with changing the minister, and that's in a sector that's problematic. If the first Minister was expressly appointed, as president of one of the coalition parties, at least my questions at the hiaring for candidate at the time, including Minister Erjavac, were practically the same as I have put them now. At that time, I asked: How will putting roads into space be? Will this become an appropriate priority? And: How will the problem of waste be resolved? After one year, the Minister must say goodbye to the politicians for waste. Similarly, I asked the Minister of Transport, Vlačič, who is not now, how you will cooperate with the Minister of Environment and Space, because putting the roads into space, we are now repeating this as the yoke of the snake all the time, and we are hearing the years of the first regulations on the State Spatial Plans for Developmental Axis, and today we are even hearing that they are flying out of the resolution on national development projects, how you will coordinate this, is that if you look at the magnetogram, Minister Vlačič told us that "if we do not do the tasks, then we are with the Minister - then the Erjavc - "we are both flying out of the government" Well, it seems that you should probably be forgiven by fellow DeSUS Members that you must be the Minister in DeSUS and then you will say goodbye, if you are the Minister in the SD, but you remain. Well, I want the new minister candidate, who is now an expert, to make up for what's going on here. You know, not only, as one of the predecessors, colleague Gantar, has previously said, but not only officials at the Ministry of Environment and Space, but also leadership is important, despite the fact that we are still looking after the previous mandate, and we are hearing that by 2008, no road was placed on the development axis in a place that is true, but also that a resolution on national development projects has been adopted, which has placed development axes, that an operational programme for the development of environmental and transport infrastructure has been adopted, and that negotiations have been made on European resources, and that the problem of putting into place remains. And at the joint meeting of the Committee on Environment and Space and the Committee on Transport, experts from both ministries said the first anniversary of 2013 when the first regulation was to be adopted as the first of the development axes. And now we're all miraculously expecting a new law on putting roads into a space that - I think it's its basic purpose - should be determined to - what? - these procedures have been shortened. At that time, I asked the experts and also the Secretary of State, who was present, what this would mean. How much faster will the roads at the expense of this law be placed in space? There was no specific answer. I also asked the current candidate for the Minister for the Environment and Space as an expert and did not give an answer. But we do know that when the minister's change occurs, if this dismissal, the appointment is delayed for one month, I will now tell you that it will stop the ministry's work for three to four months just to get the Ministry to get on the new leadership team. And it's going to happen exactly the same here. So a new candidate for the minister will have to begin his work quickly when he is elected. But given that his presentation was beautiful, clearly, he has a lot of experience in practice, but despite all that, let me just look at the magnetogram and look at the answers, but he's on a lot of questions that were concrete and he just answered: I'm quick to come, I'll study, I'll study, I'll think about it, I'll be able to learn. In the end, what we might consider to be a plus. He said, "I'll make up my mind and I know how to do it." I hope that he will decide in such a way that the Court of Auditors will not then propose his discharge. So, the problems of this department are big and not just the problems of the ministry, I think the problems of the government and now the problems of the coalition are also problems. Because it is considered a success that the first State Spatial Planning Regulation will only be placed in 2013 and that you are proposing a law on the placement of roads into a space that is supposed to accelerate this placement and no one can answer how much faster this is supposed to happen - look, I don't understand it. I fear that the year 2013 will also move into a longer future as a result of this change. And what we have heard in the debate is also earlier on the exit strategy to get the development axes out of the resolution on national development projects. That you have rejected both legislative proposals on the placement of railway infrastructure, priority sections, into the law that you have rejected a bill that would make sections of public roads an obligation of this country and put it into a resolution, into a national programme that is not yet and is already late as the law; see, these are problems that are likely to move Slovenia's developmental breakthrough in transport infrastructure again into the future. You know how they move? In the field of railways, European funds will be returned to the Brussels cash register, so that European rail corridors will obviously go through Italy and Austria instead of Slovenia, so that the development axes will become the subject of debate circles at parliamentary and regional visits, and people will have nothing from these development axes, except promises. And that's the problem. There was nothing here today about waste. I think that this is another important task, which has in some ways also been carried out by the former minister, who was a politician. I hope they don't take this minister, who's an expert, away. However, where are the solutions for regional landfills? Is it 15 now, or is it 10? What's going on in this area? Time is running out, and this, dear colleagues and colleagues, is no longer just the problem of this candidate for minister, who will be Minister from tomorrow onwards, is not only the problem of the Government, I think the problem is a coalition, but of course the work will be assessed at the end of the term.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u166	Mr. Yosko Godec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u167	Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Dear Fellows, Fellow Members, Dear Others! I will be most pleased and pleased to support Mr Rok Žarnic's candidacy for the Minister of Environment and Space, because we have known each other for a long time, and I am also most pleased to have participated in the DeSUS party in the human resources process of selecting a candidate for this place, for which Mr President of the Government, Mr Pahor, has also agreed. I know that in his first raid, if there are no human resources complications today, he will receive at least 214 congratulations from all the congregations to receive at least 90 congratulations from all the Members, to receive 17 congratulations from all the ministers, to receive 5,000 more questions in fourteen days, to put some things in place and to make this old one sooner and better end. I promise him myself that I will not ask him the question that the third development axis needs to be started in Lithuania, I will not ask him to put the first power plant in the next Sava chain in Lithium in the field where I am at home. I just want him to make his own decision and first settle the European issue, which is and must be a priority. In his case, I believe he has enough professional titles and education, but he is also a very strong psychological personality and will be able to overcome all these accompanying problems in solving these problems as a stubborn and working person. I'm sure there's also a man for the right place, and I don't think he can come up with these questions, but once again, they'd say they're taking someone to the right place. Nor did Mr Karl Erjavac have the garbage taken away, which was carried out by Article 13 of the Government Act and Article 112 of the Constitution, which speaks quite differently than garbage, and was not carried out by the Court of Auditors. We all know how this procedure ended here. He resigned himself. That's a big difference. As a friend, I would like to say to Mr Žarnić that this team, the army of experts, would, at least, encourage the Ministry brigade to take its firm principle of a decent working man to such a form that they will conscientiously and conscientiously start with the work that we are all sitting for and that we will not lose these European resources and that we will end this mandate wisely and consistently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u168	Mr. Miran Györek. He's not here. Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. Of course, I will support Professor Rok Žarnic for the Minister of Environment and Space, but I would also like to give some warnings which I think should never happen again; so the events that took place in the previous term cannot happen again in this department. It is a matter of fact that at the moment when we place the development axes in the space, Minister Podobnik also declares that the axis is placed in the space of Natura 2000 at the same time. This is some kind of abnormal vision of the management of the Ministry of Environment and Space, which I think should never happen again in the history of the management of this department. With regard to Nature, I would also point out that it is not right that the Commission negotiating in Brussels how much Nature we will have in Slovenia consists only of experts who advocate habitats and birds, and is also a representative of owners in this commission from Slovenia, Director of the Landscape Park. So a composition that does not have a representative in its team, which would also advocate the consequences for the social development of an area where Natura is declared, and someone who could present the consequences for the economic development of the area where Natura is located. So this commission needs to be revised and complemented with people who will also be able to present the social and economic dimension of the enlargement of Nature in Slovenia. With regard to a low-carbon society, however, it would only point out that the wood section at the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce recently addressed the Government's Cabinet with the initiative to try to give real attention to the use of wood in construction during these times of economic and financial crisis. This is to encourage wood production, to encourage builders to use wood, and to convince investors with appropriate measures that wood is the material they will want to incorporate more into their buildings. In fact, wood is one that binds CO2 even in the process of its growth, and never after you install it does not give CO2 into the environment, and also, last but not least, when it is no longer usable and sufficiently attractive in the facilities, this material can still be used for energy needs. And since Prof. Roko Žarnic is an expert and builder from this area, I am sure that he will be on a team that must be composed, as was the response of the Cabinet of the President of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, he will be a very important factor together with colleagues of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Development and Local Self-Government, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. And this is the team that can actually prepare solutions to become a low-carbon society and thus a competitive and advanced society. Mr Roko Žarnic is certainly one of the leading ministers of this team and will be able to contribute greatly. That's why I think the real candidate is extremely suitable to occupy this city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! I will support Prof. Dr. Rok Žarnic. At the hearing, a new wind, fresh air and new energy, as well as political unladenness, brought a much more professional view of the energy and environmental saving vision of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Because today there has been a lot of debate about the area, which will be led by Prof. Roko Žarnić, I would not talk about it, but I am convinced that both the development axes, the management of waste and his thinking that they might also introduce the collection and purchase of bottles in Slovenia, in accordance with the example of the Republic of Croatia. I don't think that this is a negative proposal and it doesn't, even in relation to some issues of dual citizenship, have any negative omens. Therefore, I am of the opinion that perhaps some of these discussions may be under-thinking. Let's give the professor a chance. I wish him great success in the new challenge, his business and scientific careers, and I believe that he will successfully lead this extremely demanding and responsible portfolio, and I also believe that the coalition colleagues from the Desus Group, together and under the leadership of the President of the Government, will think carefully here and that Mr Professor will successfully lead the resort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u173	Well, I would be happy to express my support for the new Minister for Environment and Space. In a sector that, irrespective of perception, has become increasingly important in recent years, and today, together with the State Finance Manager, I think it represents the most strategically important resource for the future of a given country. From climate change to pollution by packaging, to light pollution, to classical areas of environmental protection and spatial planning, the Minister will have full work to do. After talking to my colleagues, I know that he is expected to have parliamentary questions next week, and initiatives, and I am sure that it will be a pleasure to work with him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Bogdan Barovich will not discuss it. Mr. Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u175	It came quickly. He'll be in Gorica by 7 a.m., even if the storm blows. Yeah, because tomorrow's Saturday, you're out of work tomorrow. Yeah, it's hard to say that the president would have a happier hand than he had in this case. If, in the past, it was possible that when it was mentioned that experts should come to the ministerial posts, people with leadership skills should come and still be politically qualified and so on, then one would say that here, when I was on the committee and earlier when I read the justification, I was actually surprised whether it was even possible that a proposal with all the references, such as this, could be technically justified. The leadership skills through everything he's done so far have been, so to speak, outspoken. That he could actually do all of this, but he also had to be politically capable, given that there were many systems throughout that time. He began in socialism, and through one government, another government, third and so forth, to the point that he has now come into the situation of being "alive", in narrations, survived all this as a respected expert with leadership experience and so on and that he can continue this career as a minister. It would be difficult for the President of the Government to do better, I will not say a happy or more justified decision than this. I am convinced that ministers who are coming in at all - and ministers, of course, if there will be any interlocutors - who are performing during the term of office, it is not possible and it is not very proper for us to impose or express our wishes, our expectations, what to do first, what to do second, what to the fifth, but to do business where the former Minister left off or where he ended up, and to upgrade him with his energies, with his abilities and to make his mark on this work. There's no other way. We have a government programme, we have a coalition contract, we have long-term plans, we will do everything we can, and in the end, we have had a long discussion today about what are priorities and will have to be priorities not only for him, but for all ministers, for the whole government and for a longer period than this mandate will be. I hope that he will not go too far over the average and that because he would do some things that would not be very popular, he would not be too quick to hunt things and that he would have the opportunity to do so. I watched a show a few days ago about Vancouver or Canada. Vancouver is one of the most liberal places in the world, they say. Canada is a friendly country, a rich country. And he spoke Slovenian, doctor, scientist, dealing with some things in the fight against cancer and so on. He came to Canada when he was 30 years old. And the reporter asks him, "How's it going here in Canada?" He says, "Great. We're all from around the world. It's my own fault that I'm not Prime Minister." But because he didn't run and he doesn't want to run. He says, "If I wanted to, it could be." That's why I already said on the committee that it's wrong and it's not right to say anything to a man who is Slovenian or the mother of Slovenian, the father is Croatian, that he is Croatian. I don't know if he has identified himself as Croat or not, and I don't care about that either. He is a Slovenian citizen and a Croatian citizen. But where do people like that go, where do they go, what can they do, and what can't they do?Oh, my God! I'm disturbed by these things, and it's not right for us to sort each other out like this. That's why I gave Canada, for example, which you won't find anywhere in any kind of trouble, in "streaks" and so on, impatience and so forth. Therefore, I would like us to truly judge people only by what they do, what they are defined to do, and for what they ultimately have all the verifications. There is really no prohibition in Slovenian legislation that you should not have dual citizenship. Why is it such an arrangement? Why is it so interesting for someone else? Done. And I believe what was said on the committee, where things were set up tightly, and I was really happy when the candidate also told me how he looked at these things. Let's give it a chance, let's give it time, and I believe that, sooner or later, some unnecessary discussions will disappear from our daily needs and speakers. On the board, my colleague and I have had some kind of conflict over when, in every case, this nationalist note is highlighted. You might even say that someone might feel that they are also impatient with others. And how in this world can someone swear only to be pure-blooded, and so on, the one who can give someone legitimacy to qualify for any service in this country. Things are clear, there are conditions, there are criteria, and in this case there is nothing to doubt. And as I said on the board, despite the fact that the candidate is coming from Grosuplje, I will be happy to support him today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Tink Lah. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President of the Government, distinguished Minister, Ministers, Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, I will gladly support Prof. Roko Žarnić as Minister of Environment and Space. In particular, because the minister or candidate for a minister is an expert in his field, and that is also what politics requires, I believe that will become. My friend Anderlich said that the Prime Minister had a happy hand when he proposed such a candidate. Of course he did, because the candidate was proposed by the party DeSUS, and this is very important! I will not go into hostile speeches by some of my fellow Members, which was not the first hate speech to a candidate for a minister from the DeSUS party. If we think back a little bit, Minister Gjerkes, who is one of the better ministers, was robbed before he could even know where the Parliament is. The Ministry, which will be taken over by Mr Roko Žarnic, is one of the most demanding ministries in this country. That's why this ministry is the least popular. However, sometimes the minister has to work on it or run out of it 24 hours a day if necessary. But something is absolutely true, and every minister, as well as the new minister, who will take over this ministry, will soon have to trim all the excess, poor staff and put experts on these jobs. It may happen to him that - or if he does not - he will go along the path of the previous minister. I would only like to wish the new minister good governance of this ministry, Slovenia needs it, but of course I also wish that the Minister's policy was more favourable than it was before. I would also like to thank Karl Erjavac for leading this ministry, of course, to the new minister, and I wish you the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u178	Thank you. The LDS sentinel Club has spent time discussing it. The flower of Zalokar Orazem will not discuss. Willi Trophynik - he won't discuss it. Mr. Franci Kek? He won't discuss it. Franz Jursha? He won't discuss it. Mr. Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u179	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye to all of you again! Obviously, the new minister will have a lot of work to do in the environment, because if we have listened to the discussions of the coalition Members, who have just listed what will have to be done in this area. I must say that they have done more than the opposition here, and I hope that the tasks you are putting on the new, current candidate, the future new minister, will not be too much and too difficult, and that this will be possible with a team that will only be left with the former minister, only to manage these matters. The fact is that it is a very difficult area, a very complex area, a very connected area, including other areas within the work of the Government. In fact, this sector also intervenes directly in many, which are also written in the strategy or in the exit strategy of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. One of the projects, which is extremely important, is certainly putting routes into space, especially at developmental axes, even at other important sections on some other state roads. We had in our mandate before the government, which you have inherited, also the case of the adoption of the national programme for the construction of motorways, the resolution where, on the one amendment left behind, due to the perseverance of one Member, we have hung an entire additional road programme on it in this resolution. My colleague Pavlinič, who was then under terrible pressure from the Korean and other Members, certainly remembers this case. This was in April 2004. This was during the time of the government of Rob. However, something happened at that time, or an act was adopted at the government called Natura 2000. And you won't believe it, exactly this amendment, which was the basis for the whole extra program of building highways, then the coalition covered with Natura 2000 and eliminated it. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] It's a box. [[...]] He was eliminated with Natura 2000 as a complex corridor in August 2004. Here we need to be very precise and precise in these matters, and it would be good if those of you who were in this coalition were to look at these matters. Mr. Podobnik may have expanded the area a little later, perhaps in that part. However, a fundamental part of this was adopted in August 2004. At the time, there was no problem in removing the entire Vremščica plateau from the area. Even in Natura 2000 there would probably be no problem, as this very narrow corridor has been eliminated because of biodiversity, but this has not been done, which is a major problem. There were many options, and it is also very possible in this area to get substitute habitats, substitute surfaces. I do not think that this would be any particular problem if, in the context of agricultural operations, the real commotions of this area, the works of the Ljubljana Barja, were also made reservations, habitats for those animals who live there and deserve special protection. Regrets about the measures taken [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Natura 2000 makes this very difficult. The date or rate of placement of these routes is also somehow disrupted. The year 2013 is after this mandate. I don't think it's wise to load and anticipate some hands that go over, even if it's not some long-term project, if it's not some activity that isn't entered into some documents, and they were actually introduced, but then you eliminated them. That's a very bad thing, I think. There are also major environmental issues. You are probably aware that Slovenia will pay around €80 million for failing to fulfil certain commitments it has made. We were in Copenhagen, at the beginning of the year or the end of last year, where Slovenia agreed to even stronger commitments. In fact, she offered herself some more difficult conditions for Slovenia. And already those who have been somehow weakened have not been able to realize in this long period. I think that this will be one of the important problems, even because we are probably not aware enough, even in some areas, such as energy, how to take energy seriously so that we can meet these commitments in green energy. I think that this matter is extremely contradictory - what is actually happening, and what we have accepted, some principled commitment regarding the delimitation or fixing of quotas for green energy. I think it's going to be extremely difficult to achieve this way. We will certainly not achieve our share of the structure in this way. There is another question that has not yet been answered by the President of the Government, which remains from the point of view of the Group. Now the Prime Minister has returned. I know that it has been said behind the back that the problem of regulating commitments from the Court of Auditors' report will proceed immediately, but that is one part, that is one task. But the problem is the time at which this problem must be resolved. And I've talked about it in this particular position. I know that the Minister will immediately address this problem. I just want to know what time this matter will be resolved. Will I give the candidate these 90 days, or will we give the candidate six months to solve this problem, or [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] he will be able to resolve this by the end of his term of office; that is to say, two years and that, almost three years, which remains to the end. [[...]] I think we have to get an answer to this, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. The President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u181	First of all, to remember later, the answer to your question. Just before that, Professor Jarnić and I spoke about the time it would take to remedy the irregularities which led the Court of Auditors to call on me, as Prime Minister of the Government, to propose the discharge of former Minister Karl Erjavac. The new minister, if you decide to do so today, will immediately address this problem, as I said. And I expect him to meet the expectations of the Court of Auditors and solve the problem in the 90s. I believe that the Court of Auditors correctly assessed the time in which this problem can be resolved, and I am convinced that the new Minister is part of this task. It will be very difficult, I know this from a frank discussion with former Minister Erjavac, who I also thank on this occasion for all that he has done for the Government and the country in good faith or good faith. There were some encouraging words made by Prof. Žarniću, quite a lot for the Slovenian situation. I would like to thank everyone who has spoken to the new minister - I hope that you will decide so - some confidence. This is not exactly the characteristic of the moment in which we live. We're more or less involved in the atmosphere of some general mistrust, suspicions, doubts. There are too few other features that have also been reflected in our nation, and this is confidence, recognition of success for those who achieve this success, encouragement, atmosphere of positiveism. As President of the Government, I wonder many times in the evening what my personal responsibility is to make the atmosphere the way it is. How much this is the fault of the policy that we are leading, including the policy of not getting involved in the media, to sign them as they are, and to create together with me, with you and all the other opinions as they are. In the end, it seems to me that a balance will be established on the long run. I think the one who does his job well will be rewarded in the end. And those who do bad things can't get a reward. And so it will be with me, with my colleagues, ministers and ministers, and finally with you as Members and Members of the National Assembly. So, thank you for this brief moment of positive atmosphere in the National Assembly, which tried to encourage the new minister to undertake his very difficult tasks with some ambition, with some will, as he says, even with a touch of distance and humor. We need more of this, we need a little more confidence than we are now showing as a community. Others admit it to us, but we deny it to ourselves. I think we're gonna beat the crisis the minute we jump in this atmosphere. This leap will be difficult, obviously, but now we must show all political patience to succeed without being forced to do so, because this cannot be ruled out by law. Slowly, but with patience, it is necessary to show that even in these very times impossible situations with some ardentness, perseverance, decency, vision to achieve results. Now it's very difficult. For my fellow ministers and colleagues, I must say that I admire them in their willingness to work for practically very little satisfaction. But simply because we want to leave something good behind for this community. Therefore, I ask the National Assembly to give the Minister or the candidate for Minister, Prof. Žarničić, by voting in favour of him with some confidence and to show one expectation that he will be able to perform the very difficult tasks that await him at the Ministry, as an incentive to someone who is not a career politician, an expert to experience one satisfaction in politics, which is important for all of us and for all of our people, wherever they work and live, also important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the proposal for a decision and decisions today, half an hour after the adjournment of the meeting; this is at 20.55, if you allow. 20.55 is the continuation of the sitting and the voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u183	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Please take your seats. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on Income in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Income Act. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to break the 7th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the candidate's proposal for an environment and space minister. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Dr. Roko Žarnic is appointed Minister of Environment and Space. We're voting. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] May I have your attention for a moment to establish the formal outcome of the vote? There are 56 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 2. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I find that Dr. Roko Žarnic is appointed Minister of Environment and Space. I congratulate the Minister of Government on his appointment and wish him a successful discharge of his duties. We'll wait for him to come to the gym. I ask the newly appointed Minister to swear before the National Assembly in accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u184	I swear that I will respect the constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia. Let's go. Let's go. Let's
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Does the minister want to speak in front of the National Assembly? If he wants, please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u186	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Dr. Gantar! Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Dear Council of Ministers! Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! It is an extraordinary time for me to thank you for your confidence and your election to the extremely responsible post of Minister for Environment and Space. Today I have only one wish: I ask you to help me with your knowledge and experience in future difficult work for the benefit of all citizens of Slovenia. I expect your well-intentioned criticism, which will help me find answers to difficult questions and find solutions to the problems that lie ahead. Thank you for your election. Let's go. Let's go. Let's
ParlaMint-SI_2010-02-12-SDZ5-Izredna-19.ana.u187	I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 19th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
