ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 13th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Dara Lavtišar Bebler, Anton Anderlič, Janez Ribič, Mag. Anton Rop and Milenko Ziherl. I say hello to everyone who's here! Dear Minister, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished guests, citizens and citizens! On January 27, the General Assembly of the United Nations declared the Holocaust Memorial Day. So let me say a few words on this occasion. On this day in 1945, the Russian army stepped in and liberated the largest infamous Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp, which still represents the scene of unspeakable evil and horror and is a symbol of Nazi oppression, torture and persecution, especially of members of the Jewish community, as well as of all other, less valuable and condemned to final destruction. 65 years after the end of World War II the Holocaust and its terrifying dimensions slowly and gradually, unfortunately, drift from the memory of mankind. There are fewer and fewer living witnesses of Nazi horrors, all of those who have survived this immense test of World War II, and all that this war of tragedy has brought with it. Despite the threat and ingenuity experienced by the world in the face of a Nazi destructive machine, we are still or are again faced with individual but no less worrying cases of anti - Semitism. We witness various phenomenal forms of xenophobia and intolerance, which are being renewed and strengthened also on the basis of new ethnocentric and nationalistic ideologies. There are many opportunities for their emergence and strengthening in acute economic and social conditions. All of this requires our preservation of memory and awareness of past horrors. On the one hand, we face the challenge of keeping these past events in mind, and on the other hand, we face the eternal question of how to fulfill such a broken promise that something so terrible must never happen again. Regrettably, under the cover of many excuses and excuses, and on behalf of some great ideas to the innocent population in various parts of the world, there is still an immeasurable woe. Your Honor! Caring for memory and conscious choice of co-existence is our common moral duty and our assurance for a better tomorrow. Because of all the victims, and especially because of the future of mankind, the horrors of the Holocaust must never be forgotten, for as wrote by the writer and philosopher George Santayan in 1905: "Those who do not remember history will be condemned to experience it again." In memory of the victims of the Holocaust, I ask you for a minute of silence. [[One minute of silence.]] Thank you very much. We're moving to four. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the Export of Goods by Double-Use, abbreviated Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Minister of Economy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Members! Slovenia established a dual-use control system by means of the Act on the Export of Dual-Use Goods in 2000. By entering the European Union, it was replaced by the Act on the Control of the Export of Dual-Use Goods, with the Ministry of Economy being designated as the competent authority for the issue of licences. Criminal provisions for offences have also been laid down. Under the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also appointed an appropriate inter-resort committee to monitor the export of dual-use goods for effective implementation. This law is now changing, with reasons for changing that at EU level we are faced with a new Council Regulation extending the Community regime from control of the export of goods to also intermediate services and the transit of these goods. It's on the 27th. 8. 2009 and is directly binding. It is therefore essential to establish competent national authorities and appropriate sanctions in the event of a solution. Of course, we are establishing concrete control over the provision of technical assistance on the basis of the Council's joint action, referred to in the existing law. We re-establish the competence of one single authority to issue permits for dual-use goods. The issue of a delivery certificate in accordance with international export regimes for dual-use goods is added for easier and more reliable imports of these goods for our companies. In the legislative process, we have received an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly with comments on individual articles which are of a nomotechnic nature and for this purpose are also amendments tabled. Let me say what seems very important to me that the implementation of the law is based on the issuing of licences on the basis of the preliminary opinion of the Interdepartmental Commission on the Control of the Export of Dual-Use Goods and the Control of Customs Authorities. The Commission’s expert opinions have safeguarded that Slovenia will not contribute to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. At the same time, it will allow for long-term international business with its high value-added company. Let me stress that we are committed to having a dual-use control system imposed on us as a country by the European Union. As I said at the outset, with an effective system, we can allow our companies to safely export dual-use goods that are not possible without permission. This contributes to their being competitive and thus indirectly preserving or even acquiring jobs and jobs in activities, as I said, with relatively high added value. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Matjaž Han to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on the Economy is 13. 1. 2010 was treated as a parent labour body by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the Export of Dual-Use Goods. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service on the basis of which the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS members tabled amendments, taking into account the main part of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Ministry of Economy, however, explained to the Committee in a special letter the reasons for not respecting the other comments. The meeting was held by the State Secretary, Mrs Radiceva, in the introduction, briefly presenting the fundamental reasons for the adoption of the proposed amendment of the law and in particular its main solution. She also stressed that the Government supports the amendments of the coalition's parliamentary groups because they are of a nomotechnic nature and contribute to the improvement of the legal text. The members of the committee did not discuss the specific substantive solutions of the draft law in more detail in the context of the discussion on individual articles, as they considered it to be quite a technical law. However, they drew attention to some of the issues raised at the time of its consideration, as well as to the general comment of the Legislative and Legal Service. The legislative and legal framework points out that the drafting of the legislative proposal violates the recommendations of the Nomotechnical Guidelines issued by the Government's Law Services. The bill amends all articles of the current law. However, according to the guidelines, it would be more appropriate to write a new law or to draft a new law. The representative of the Government stressed that the Government had decided to make the amendment because it did not change the concept of the existing law itself. It adds that there are some innovations that will affect 5% of the content of the law. Members listened to this explanation and stressed that the proposal for a law nevertheless showed support, as delays in its adoption would be reckless in view of the delay. They warned that while it is at first sight a rather simple and technical law, they are being cared for by the uplifting content. Its purpose is to exercise control over goods whose dual use is also possible for various dangerous acts, for example for terrorism, and it would therefore be very useful and welcome to receive information on the implementation of the law so far. By adopting a proposal for a law, one authority will be responsible for issuing licences. This is the Ministry of the Economy, thereby losing its role in this area to the Ministry of Health, the Office of Chemicals. Members also wondered whether such a solution was appropriate and whether the new regulation would include the Chemicals Office in the exercise of control. With regard to the issues raised, appropriate clarifications were provided on the proposaler's part and it was promised that a brief information on the implementation of the law would be provided to the Committee by the meeting of the National Assembly, which has also actually happened. At the end of the discussion, the Committee adopted all amendments from the Zares, SD, DeSUS and LDS groups. Accordingly, the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of this report or of the report of the Committee, was prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SLS Group will be presented by Franz Bogovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u6	Good afternoon. Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues. The Honourable Minister. The proposed amendment to the law regulates the implementation of Regulation 428/2009; the amendment also addresses some other important issues in the area of control of the export of dual-use goods which are not regulated at European Union level by regulations directly binding on Member States, or their regulation at national level recommends international export regimes of which Slovenia is also a signatory and contribute to better economic cooperation between countries. What are we actually talking about? The term dual-use goods means goods, software and technology which can be used for civil and military purposes, including all goods and services which may be used in connection with the development, production, handling, management, maintenance, storage, detection, identification and dissemination of chemical biological or nuclear weapons or other explosive nuclear devices or for the development, manufacture, maintenance and storage of missiles capable of carrying such weapons. The bill provides as a novelty only one competent ministry for the issue of all licences in this field. Sanctions are laid down for infringements of the provisions of the law, the technical assistance to which the supervision is exercised is defined, the issue of a dual-use delivery certificate and the deletion of all provisions of the law, which are duplicated or not in accordance with Regulation 428/2009. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support such a bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Vas Klavor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u8	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Member Group, our Group has contributed to the adoption of the proposed amendment to the Double-Use Export Control Act, as we have assessed the proposed solutions as acceptable. It is for the implementation of the Council Regulation of the European Community establishing a Community regime for the control of the export, transfer, transfer and transit of dual-use goods and for the adaptation of the basic law towards the implementation of this Regulation in the sense of determining the competent authority and sanctions for infringements. It is therefore a specific type of goods which must be specially controlled in the case of exports from the European Community, namely goods, software and technology which can be used for civil and military purposes, including all goods and services which may be used in connection with the development, production, handling, management, maintenance, storage, detection, identification or dissemination of chemical, biological or nuclear weapons or other explosive nuclear devices or with the development, production, maintenance or storage of products capable of carrying such weapons. Since this is a specific type of goods, it is therefore necessary to highlight the common system for the control of exports of goods, in particular in the sense of non-proliferation. The basic condition for the free movement of these goods within the European Community is also the common system of control and harmonised policies for implementation and monitoring in all Member States, and it is therefore necessary to include them in our law governing this area. Members of our Group are aware that the rules and guidelines of the community that we have joined are also part of our legislation, which we must follow and follow, and therefore we support the proposed amendment to the Law on the Control of the Export of Dual-Use Goods. We will vote accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good day to you all, even above. In short, Slovenia is a member of three international export regimes. She applied for membership in fourth grade. Slovenia, as a member of the European Union, must implement the Council Regulations adopted within the first pillar of the European Union by accession to the international export regime applicable to dual-use goods, and Slovenia has committed itself to taking these guidelines into account and therefore today's law. This is important because it is about controlling intermediation and controlling the transit of such transport. This type of traffic is a substance that can be a medicine or a weapon of mass destruction. The decision made at the interdepartmental coordination to transfer the content of this law from the Ministry of Health to the Ministry of the Economy is probably already coordinated, Mr Minister, including with health. While the law only states that the content was not well implemented at the time the Ministry of Health was responsible for it. And I'm sure it's right that the Ministry of the Economy is now the one talking about this content. Let me add that this is also a very important law because it requires intelligence services to play an important role. In short, it's a law governing brokerage, a trade in dual-use goods, which I repeat can be life or death. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the law, which we are considering today following a reduced procedure. Finally, I would point out again - although I have been explained for this law that in cases where almost all the articles of the law change, when almost every amendment is made to all the amended articles of the law, almost every article, in this case because of nomotechnic problems, even in the government's best interests, we recommend that new laws be written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Minister, President of the National Assembly, colleague and colleague! Visitors and visitors on the balcony of the National Assembly Hall! As set out in the Directive of the European Union establishing a Community regime for the control of the origin, transfer, transfer and transit of dual-use goods, the Republic of Slovenia, in order to extend the control regime of those goods, must establish competent authorities and appropriate sanctions in the event of possible infringements. We also need to lay down by law the supervision of the provision of technical assistance, which was not done in 2000. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Control of the Export of Dual-Use Goods, in addition to the provisions resulting from the European Directive, also regulates other areas which are not specifically specified by the Directive. In addition, the proposal for a law aligns Slovenian legislation with European legislation and also introduces simplifications in the field of administrative barriers, establishing a uniform approach to economic operators, by conferring the power to issue all permits on the Ministry of Economy. As already mentioned, the law also interprets the supervision of the implementation of technical assistance in relation to certain types of military use. This introduces innovations in the area of the establishment of sanctions for infringements of the provisions and the establishment of certificates for the delivery of dual-use goods. Since it is a law that aligns Slovenian legislation with the European legal order and brings meaningful simplifications and solutions, we will also support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Liberal Democrats' Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matjaž Han. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u14	Once again, welcome, of course, guests on the balcony. The proposal for a new law on the control of the export of dual-use goods is, at first glance, a law which affects only or in a very narrow circle of export products, but the reason for the adoption of such a law is very important. As has already been pointed out on the Committee on the Economy itself and also as pointed out by the Minister of Economy, Mr Lahovnik, applications go all the way to national security and therefore the adoption of the proposed amendments to the law, if you want, is absolutely necessary. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that with the amendments adopted by the coalition on the Committee on the Economy and further clarifications by the Government to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, the law is appropriate for the transposition of European regulations. As such, we will accept and support it and thus, I believe, also contribute to a better and safer Europe, and not least to the world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Marjan Bezjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! Dear guests! In Slovenia, the first law on the implementation of dual-use goods was adopted in 2000 and was in force until entry into the EU when it was replaced in 2004 by the Act on the Control of the Export of Dual-Use Goods, which applied in addition to Regulation 1334/2000/EC. We consider dual-use goods, software, technology that can be used for civil and military purposes, including all goods and services that can be used in connection with the development, production, handling, management, maintenance, storage, detection, identification or spread of chemical biological or nuclear weapons or other explosive nuclear device or with the development, production, maintenance or storage of missiles capable of carrying such weapons. According to the applicant, the proposed amendment regulates the implementation of Regulation 428/2009/EC. The amendment also addresses some other important issues in the area of control of dual-use exports that are not regulated at EU level by rules that would be directly binding on Member States. In the SDS Group, we estimate that this amendment does not limit the free economy or research activity, but does help to ensure that dual-use goods are not misused for military or terrorist purposes, so in the SDS Group we will support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendments have been tabled in addition to the proposed legislation, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council within the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice at its 5th session. 5. 2009 and at the first meeting of 6th session. Seven. 2009 did not adopt the articles of the draft law and is therefore at its 14th session. 1. 2010 proposed to the National Assembly to take note of the conclusion that the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council on the Functioning of the European Union has been completed. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I give the floor to the representatives of the delegations of the positions. The text shall be given by the winner, Jelinčič, to the nobles on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u18	Have a nice hello to you all. It is interesting that today we are voting on a law that is not actually there. The Law on the State Council was not voted as members on the home committee, that is what we say in an empty language. After all, the State Council is something that is said to be empty, in fact, it is some leisure activity where gentlemen sit, do nothing and yet require their President of the State Council to get a paid job in the 64th pay grade, which amounts to exactly EUR 5,585,17 per month, so that he does nothing and that is why the State Council wants to get the consent of the National Assembly here. The State Council should be abolished. The National Council is a blind intestine of Slovenian Parliamentarianism and has nothing to do with our regulation. Gentlemen from the State Council are walking around the world and representing themselves as senators as representatives of the second home of the Slovenian Parliament. And yet we have Slovenians in the Constitution written down that we have a one-home system. We only have one National Assembly. Even this National Assembly does not know what to call it, and in English we still talk about the congregation, which is another idiocy of many idiots in this country. The foolish are multiplying and amassing one another and instead of making things right, we pile them up and look more and more stupid in the world. Unfortunately, Slovenian voters have not missed this in order to give once a slap to most gentlemen who are sitting on the government and who are sitting on jobs where they are doing nothing and getting fat, and gentlemen in the State Council wanted to cut off a large portion and a large piece of bread. Of course, the Constitutional Court also assists him in this usurpation of power by the State Council. This usurpation of the legislative authority that the Constitutional Court is taking and is expanding, we will talk at a press conference on Monday. Then I hope that the press will listen, of course, if the government allows them to listen and if the coalition allows journalists to write something else, not just boasting and bouncy government officials, prime minister, ministers and so on. I think we've talked a lot about the State Council, and it would make sense for us to end the State Council. They'd make a hell of a mess. And what I'm going to say is, as someone from DeSUS who just talks and does nothing, the fact is that the money that goes on in the State Council would be much better spent if they gave the pensioners some euro more to the pension. But they won't do it. A pension reform is being prepared that will squeeze people even more, but of course - DeSUS will take care of the pensioners. They will not have a thousand euros in pensions, as promised, but perhaps 170 euros, as promised. Thus, these matters need to be settled and regulated in various ways, especially in such ways as to avoid allowing some at the expense of the whole country to make fun of their pockets with taxpayers' money. It's not allowed, it's just bullshit, but we're used to porking in the country, and unfortunately people kind of swallow these things and they're just quiet and they don't say anything about it. I'm waiting for people to say something and maybe pull some off their sleeves and say, "Lord, what's wrong with you? When are you gonna take care of this? When are you going to call to account those who stole millions and millions and hundreds of millions of euros and nothing?".. In short, we don't need such laws, we don't need the State Council, and we don't need much else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Of course, I would like to point out that this is a law on changes and additions to the Law on the State Council and not to the political party DeSUS. I'd like to give you a special warning. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. The bill before us today is a result of a decision of the Constitutional Court of 4. Ten. 2007 which introduces the professional office of President of the Council of State. The finding of the Constitutional Court decided that the non-professional exercise of this function was incompatible with the Constitution. Today's 27. 1. 2010 and we have not yet complied with the Constitutional Court's decision. Actually, it's about time we set this up. Although the biggest opposition party has repeatedly made it clear that the current economic and financial situation does not seem appropriate to address this issue. We are convinced in the Liberal Democrats' Chamber that respect for the Constitutional Court's decision is essential at any time. In addition, we are convinced that the act of professional office of the President of the Council of State will not deepen the economic and financial crisis in the country. If we compare the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia with similar institutions in Europe, we find that no other home in Europe has a professional president, an exception is indeed the Slovenian National Council, which shows a senseless Slovenian legal regime. Since we believe in the Liberal Democrats' Club that the Constitutional Court's decision must be respected, we will support the proposal for a law amending the Law in the State Council, of course, for so long we also support the State Council until we regulate it differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Miran Potrč. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye, everyone. Today, the National Assembly cannot do anything but conclude that the Legislative Procedure of the Law on the State Council, which is supposed to settle the issue of the salary of the President of the State Council, is completed and that this issue will need to be discussed again or again. Whether it will be necessary or not, it will depend on the majority of the two-thirds will in the National Assembly, because the Legislative and Legal Service has found that the Law on the State Council should therefore also be adopted and amended in those provisions which do not concern elections, since the issue of the regulation of elections is determined by a two-thirds majority. The two-thirds majority, however, had so far not been able to settle this issue in the National Assembly, since the opposition, at the very shortest, opposed the possibility that the presidency of the Council of State would be professional, regardless of whether the Constitutional Court so decided. In the Group of Social Democrats, we respected and supported the Constitutional Court's decision on the proposal prepared by the Government, but we would like to say the following. The position of the Council of State has been regulated by the Constitution, which we adopted at the end of 1991, which is a constitutional category that everyone can think of, but we are often unobjective to the Council of State, because when it is politically appropriate, we are happy that the Council of State has demanded a veto opinion when it is not politically appropriate for us to say that the Council of State is in a state of supremacy in relations and that the Council of State cannot decide. When we find this appropriate, we believe that it is right for the State Council to exercise its authority and require a referendum or a constitutional opinion on a particular issue, when it does not suit us politically, we are against it. I would also like to say that the position of the State Council is politically highly ambivalent and that it is not properly spoken of as a appendix, this is a constitutional category which the Constitutional Court has concluded should have a professional president in order to effectively manage its functions. To speak of the state as a result of this failure or prosperity is, in my opinion, incorrect and inaccurate. We in the National Assembly will also have to agree once with the necessary majority whether we respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court at this point or not, or whether we will achieve the necessary two-thirds majority to change the position and competence of the State Council. As long as we have the arrangements we have today and the decisions of the Constitutional Court as we have them, it would be wise to follow them, but not to show, in my opinion, that we do not have a very important point of how the National Assembly is not prepared to respect the decision of the Constitutional Court and thus contribute to the enforcement of the rule of law. Today, we will take note of the absence of this law and leave one of the issues that are not very important and point to the level of decision-making in the National Assembly for the next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u24	Dearly respected, even on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, a very nice greeting to all! Today, the topic is, given the fact that there is no law in fact, especially the Council of State and the constitutional situation and constitutional order in our country. The fact is that the Council of State, which was the fruit of one rather unfortunate compromise and then it was only increasing, given the weak powers conferred on it by the Constitution by the adoption of legislation, because at that time the first President of the Council of State was elected just as that man who had been in the previous totalitarian regime in trouble with the then President of the Assembly and then made sure that all the legislation had suppressed the State Council even more than the Constitution itself. Even today, some who have just defended the Council of State have in fact been the very proponents of solutions that have further restricted powers within a given period or rights that can also be exercised in the National Assembly. For example, the last nail in the coffin was certainly the decision not to discuss the vetoes in the National Assembly anymore, but only to present the position and then to vote and end. This, of course, tells us how the difference between words and actions takes this body seriously. What needs to be said very clearly is that, as it is, it does not excuse its existence, that there is only one unfortunate institution, not only because of a weakly placed authority, but also because those in it do not know exactly what they would do. We'd like to do something useful, but they don't have those powers. That is to say, this will have to be regulated and in the SDS we propose appropriate solutions, which we have already presented. This is a matter of constitutional change for the new Republic, and with these we intend to transform the entire Slovenian Parliament, so that it will be more effective and operate as rationally and economically as possible and as fully as possible to fulfil all democratic powers for the benefit of citizens and citizens. At the moment, the legislation of such a solution, as proposed - at the request of the Constitutional Court, is certainly extremely difficult to support in view of the extremely poor situation which has led to the ignorance and incompetence of the existing coalition in running the country. The problems in which we are, the long line of people in front of employment institutions, and here is supposed to be a special, extremely well-paid function, which in practice does not constitute a legal problem, since this matter is already regulated on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, directly by other legal means. So that this law was by no means necessary. At this point, however, it is obvious to everyone that it would be good to rewind Slovenia's constitutional order and assess which institutions justify their existence. If it is decided that we really need such an institution, then it must be given jurisdiction and otherwise such institutions must be abolished. And since a lot of people sometimes do a little bit of injustice especially in the State Council, it is important to note that there are still a few things that should be viewed from a close perspective, because they are extremely expensive, and one would wonder whether we really need such a large apparatus, and precisely those institutions, given the effect that is sometimes not positive for the country. More or less, a stain falls on Slovenia abroad because of the conduct of these institutions. When you were all talking about the State Council, let me draw attention to a Kosovo commission and to the overblown Office of the President of the State, and to the Office of the former President of the State, which costs more money, etc. In short, things that should be taken seriously under scrutiny and, of course, to harmonise a fundamental and fundamental principle that should probably take these matters seriously in politics, and this is the principle that taxpayers should be treated as cost-effectively as possible, respecting a citizen and a citizen as having authority that is only given to us in the exercise of it. And their benefit is what we should follow in the first place, on the one hand, rationality on the other hand efficiency.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u26	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Of course, we can have different opinions about the National Council. Although I am not quite sure that the topic of today's agenda is the constitutional status of the whole of the State Council, I also do not intend to oppose the opinions expressed here by undisputed parliamentary authority, as far as "scrupulousness", idiotism and the place of social property are concerned. The fact is, of course, that the Constitutional Court decision of 4 October 2007 introduces this professional exercise of office as President of the Council of State and, within a period of six months, the National Assembly should remove this non-conformity. Two novels have already been filed, unfortunately they have not been accepted. This time, too, it was confirmed on the Committee by a small unqualified majority. In short, the SDS Group abstained when, in view of the economic situation mentioned above, it is inappropriate to introduce another paid function. Of course, it must be said that, well, it is not the first time that the decisions of the Constitutional Court are ignored, but of course it is necessary to know that the President of the Council of State does not perform these functions voluntarily, free of charge and live, for example, from his hobby of raising dogs or something like that. The costs of this function, of course, are already there. At the symbolic level, however, it is also important or professional or unprofessional. Following the interpretation of the Legislative and Legal Service, a two-thirds majority of all votes should be required, which was not adopted, as I have already mentioned. The law then addressed the Rules of Procedure Commission, which adopted an explanation that, in view of the course of events, the second consideration of the proposal was completed at the working body meeting. In doing so today, of course, we have nothing but to conclude this legislative process and hope that the next time the legislative proposal can be more successful. In doing so, the question of the majority required for the adoption of this law must be raised. Since, at its 2005 meeting on 14 July, when the National Assembly adopted the Law on the Council of State, which abolished the professional office of President of the Council of State, the general majority was sufficient to adopt that decision. 55 Members voted in favour at the time, and now that this right would be reinstated by a decision of the Constitutional Court, a two-thirds majority should be required. So the issue of this two-thirds majority seems problematic to us and will probably need to be clarified as much as possible at the request of a large number of other provisions of our Constitution. The fact is that the basic status of the State Council is a constitutional "matter", which requires a two-thirds majority to change. We are not entirely convinced, however, that the issue of the professional or non-professional functions of the President of the Council of State is also a constitutional "matter"; what decision will be necessary here. If we are really going to deal with such fundamental constitutional changes as, say, the forerunner has said, then the overblownness of many more and many more will have to be taken into consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we express our dissatisfaction at the fact that the second consideration of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Council was thus concluded. There have been many discussions about the need and purpose of the State Council. Much has been said about the role and tasks of the President of the Council of State. We are all aware, however, that the Constitutional Court's decision cannot only be disputed but must be respected and fulfilled. The Constitutional Court has therefore decided that the non-professional exercise of the presidency of the State Council is inconsistent with the Constitution. This means that the status of the President of the Council of State should be regulated in accordance with the actual work and the tasks of the President with regard to the exercise of this function. Of course, we also support the possible transformation of the State Council into a more modern body. But we see no point in delaying the President's status again. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore believe that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the State Council must be re tabled as soon as possible and also supported by a two-thirds majority, so that we do not constantly deal with one and the same matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is the third defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Administrative Procedure Act under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word is given by Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u30	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear, dear, very good-bye. In the third reading, before the National Assembly there is a proposal for a new Law on General Administrative Procedure. We propose that you accept the amendment, because we regulate three important areas, according to our assessment, in a significantly better way than the General Administrative Procedure Act has addressed these issues so far. The proposed amendment lays down administrative inspection measures in the first set of amendments to identify infringements in the monitoring of the implementation of the General Administrative Procedure Act and specific procedures. The existing regime does not allow for the effective establishment of a legal situation, which is in fact the fundamental purpose of inspection, nor is it the worst deprivation of the public interest or of the rights and legal benefits of the parties. The sanctions which may be imposed on the inspector on the basis of the novel shall go in the first direction in terms of preventive action, which shall be directed to the officer to re-management of the examination and may be introduced a disciplinary procedure which shall determine the officer’s ability to manage and manage administrative procedures below. A decision-making ban in administrative proceedings may be established if the person does not have an appropriate professional examination. Indicting and reporting a crime will be the inspector's duty when he detects these signs in the conduct of an official. An important measure to be taken by the inspector will also be in relation to the holders of public powers when they are conducting administrative procedures under the authority that, in so far as these procedures are conducted by the unscrupulous person, the inspector will be able to propose to the competent authority that he begin the procedure for the withdrawal of public powers. The second set of amendments concerns a more appropriate service arrangement with a public notice, which provides today for the publication of the entire document on the notice board and on the Single National Portal of E-Government. We have estimated that, with a view to adequate service, it can only be sufficient to publish the message. This will actually protect the personal data and privacy of customers in administrative proceedings in a significant part, as there is no need to publish an entire document for appropriate electronic service. And a third set of changes that we think makes sense. We are supplementing the actual law with the right of a person to enter into a employment relationship for an official job in a state administration. We give the opportunity to conclude this working relationship, meeting all the conditions, of course, without having a professional examination from the administrative procedure when applying for an official job. That is all that a person will have to do within three months of his or her employment, i.e. the official job. This is where we give the opportunity, if individuals from the economic sphere, to enter the public service from other areas of the work, to open the door for them here. However, the professional competence shall be determined below by an appropriate examination of the administrative procedure to be carried out within three months. Unless she does, of course, she ends her previous employment relationship. In view of these important news, honourable Members and Members, I propose that you adopt the amendment to the Administrative Procedure Act in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Liberal Democracy Club will be presented by Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the General Administrative Procedure Act carries out three important sets of amendments. First time. When serviced by a public notice, arrangements shall be left for the Authority to publish, in the event of failure by public notice, the whole document on the notice board of the Authority and on the national E-Government portal, replacing the publication of the notification of service by a public notice. The powers to act on an administrative inspection overseeing the implementation of the Law under the general administrative procedure and other laws governing specific administrative procedures shall be added. In addition to the law, it provides that administrative inspection may be carried out directly with the supervised authority, but only on the basis of documents sent, which is more cost-effective. In the event of the infringements found, the inspector will be able to order that the illegality be eliminated within the time limit set by him himself. In the event of an infringement resulting in a significant deprivation of the public interest or rights or of the benefit of the parties, as well as of other repeated infringements which have been ordered in advance, an administrative decision will allow an official to take part in the retraining and decision-making of the administrative procedure. Where an official does not fulfil the conditions for performing acts in an administrative procedure which are prescribed in respect of professional education, professional examination and powers, he shall be prohibited from continuing the procedure. The Administrative Inspector will also be able to propose the introduction of a disciplinary procedure, to indicate the offence or to propose the initiation of a procedure for the confiscation of public authority by holders where they are unable to exercise or exercise entrusted public powers. In the Liberal Democrats Club, we believe that these solutions mean a more friendly and efficient administration for citizens and citizens, so we also support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The proposed amendment to the Law on the General Administrative Procedure provides for a new scope for service with a public notice. Administrative inspections shall be accompanied by powers of action. In the field of human resources, it is possible to run for the wider range of candidates. The notice of public service with a public notice will henceforth be provided only with the information necessary to enable the addressee or other person who knows the addressee to find out that the authority wishes to give him a document and will no longer need all the papers that should be advertised on the notice board. This solution will protect personal data and thus protect the addressee's privacy, while at the same time he may be able to determine that the administrative authority wishes to service him with a specific decision. The administrative inspection shall be able to monitor more effectively the implementation of the General Administrative Procedure Act and other laws governing specific administrative procedures. It is important, however, that the law does not aim at repression, but focuses primarily on preventive action to ensure the correct and legitimate application of procedural law. Finally, in the search for staff for jobs, management and decision-making in the administrative process, a better assembly will be called through the conduct of professional examinations, as well as an opportunity for a wider selection and selection of candidates. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the proposed amendments protect the privacy of the addressee in order to help improve the quality and efficiency of the inspection services and we will therefore support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u36	Thank you very much. We also have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act. The law was submitted, as we know, by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government proposes to amend the current public service arrangements by leaving arrangements for the Authority to publish the whole document in the event of a failure to deliver a public service notice. This is replaced by a public publication of the notification of service by a public notice for the protection of personal data and privacy. The notification of service with a public notice will only have to be accompanied by information necessary to ensure that the addressee or other persons who know him can report that the authority wishes to give him a document. At the same time, an amendment is proposed in the context of the conduct of professional examinations to allow for a better selection of job candidates in which acts, management and decision-making are carried out and, of course, more equal treatment. This shall be without prejudice to the applicable arrangements for the management of the administrative procedure. The proposed solution exceptionally aligns job candidates who run and decide on administrative matters with job candidates, where specific rules allow them to pass an expert examination within a certain period following the conclusion of the employment relationship. In a substantial part, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes a solution that deviates from the objective of the law, namely, in the area of administrative inspection, it returns administrative inspection during a period of fairly bureaucratic action. In the SDS Group, we believe that these proposed changes in the area of administrative inspection are inappropriate. It should be pointed out that administrative inspection is not a classic inspection and in the event of irregularities found, classical measures are not taken into account. The heads of public administration bodies are responsible for irregularities, including ministers, heads of government services, other authorities and mayors. This is the top of the public administration; in the event of irregularities, the Minister of Public Administration must act and, if necessary, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, especially if irregularities occur in ministries. It would therefore be more appropriate to leave existing arrangements in place and to make improvements within this model. In the SDS Group, we believe that the correction concerning the service and the professional examination is appropriate and appropriate. However, we do not agree with the proposed solution to the work of derogating from the objectives of the current law in the area of administrative inspection, because it restores administrative inspection to a period of even more bureaucratic action because it is in line with the nature of many of the measures introduced by this authority. The government has not taken the opportunity to change the law in all parts in a positive direction, so we will abstain in this vote in the SDS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the Slovenian State Administration must be rational and effective. The state of administration is seen as the largest Slovenian company with enormous potential, to be managed by modern management tools and to be constantly encouraged to make better use of financial resources and, on the other hand, to develop it into an effective, successful and fair partner for citizens and the economy. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we have already stated in our consideration of the law that the proposed amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act are useful. The first change is useful from the point of view of protecting personal data, we believe that it is right to arrange the service with a public notice in a way that makes personal data more secure and individual privacy. Above all, we find it helpful to amend or supplement the administrative inspection with greater powers. If we want an effective administrative inspection, we need to give it authority and if we want effective officials, we need to have an effective inspection with prescribed sanctions. Otherwise, it would be best if the infringements were not at all, but unfortunately they are not, but it is too often that the inability of certain officials is reflected even in repeated violations. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that the administrative procedure is extremely important because it decides on the rights, obligations and obligations of the parties in relation to the State. Therefore, we also believe that it is right to prescribe sanctions for infringements, not to impose the removal of irregularities and the like, which is not then carried out in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Silven Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u40	Dear President, Madam Secretary. We support the amendment of the General Administrative Procedure Act in the Slovenian National Party Group. In our view, it is perfectly reasonable to have a proposed regime which provides that a person must pass an administrative examination no later than three months after the conclusion of the work relationship at the place where the professional examination from the administrative procedure is defined as a condition for the occupation of the job. Following the regulation so far, the applicant was expected to carry out the professional examination of the administrative procedure in advance, i.e. before the application for employment was submitted, since otherwise it was considered not to meet the tendering conditions. Further amendment of the law serves to protect the personal data of the parties involved. Thus, the whole document will no longer be published after the new service with a public notice, but only a message of service with a public notice. Finally, the amendment in question regulated in more detail the powers of the inspection which oversees the implementation of these and other laws governing administrative procedures. We are pleased that the Government has finally come to understand the importance of exercising the effective supervisory function of the authorities responsible. According to the applicant, the amendment is based on the knowledge that the current regime does not allow for effective control and the establishment of a legal situation, since it only provides for a general mandate that the administrative inspector may propose to the head of the supervised authority, within a certain period of time, to carry out measures or to remedy the irregularities identified. Therefore, the amendment in question to the General Administrative Procedure Act specifies these general powers. A general mandate is maintained for the Administrative Inspector to order the elimination of identified illegalities and therefore to set a time limit. In the event of the most serious infringements of the administrative procedural law, the result of which is the apparent deprivation of the public interest or of the rights or legal benefits of the parties, as well as of other repeated infringements to which the Inspector has previously warned and decided to eliminate them, additional measures are envisaged. In such cases, the Administrative Inspector shall be given the authority to instruct the official who has committed the found illegality to retrain for management and decision-making in the administrative procedure and to propose to the Chief of Staff the introduction of a disciplinary procedure in which he or she shall be able to carry out his or her duties. As a result of the infringements found, when acts in administrative proceedings are carried out by a person who fails to comply with the conditions laid down, a measure shall be laid down to prohibit further management or decision-making. In addition to those measures, the inspector shall be competent to notify the competent authority or to file a criminal complaint when establishing the legal signs of the offence for which the perpetrator is prosecuted under official responsibility. If the infringements of the procedural rules are related to the exercise of public powers and show that they have been carried out in a non-professional, non-disclosure or negligence manner, it may be proposed to introduce a procedure for depriving the operator of public powers. Such a proposal, which is not binding by the decision-making authority, will be applied by the administrative inspector if he finds that the administrative tasks for which the mandate has been granted are not carried out or, despite a warning, are carried out in a non-professional, non-disclosure or negligence manner and that it affects public interest in a particular administrative area. As I have already said, we support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich. Please, Mr. Žnidaršič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u42	Thank you very much. In the context of the consideration of this law, I would like to say that it follows the announced objectives in the introduction and brings together three improvements already mentioned, where it is very important that offenders within the administrative procedure performing this work can experience appropriate sanctions and thus better protect the rights of the individual and also the public interest within their work and procedures. It is certainly important to extend the range of those who can apply to certain jobs. In this way, candidates will be able to apply for a specific job under the invitation to tender without a final examination of the administrative procedure, which, of course, will then have to be carried out within three months, thus making the choice of a wider and more quality of employment. For these reasons, of course, including the notification service, which is simplified to the extent that it is reduced to the most urgent data, the purpose is achieved. I want to support the law, of course, because I think it is good and beneficial for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Would you like a word with the proponent, Vlada? He doesn't want to. Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. The assembly will decide on the draft law in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments to the Act on the Registration of the Eastern Partnership within the framework of an Endorsed Procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this proposal, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the draft law is not suitable for further consideration. I give the floor to the chairman of the committee, Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u44	Dear Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 12th meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities discussed the proposal for a law amending the law on the registration of the same-sex partner community, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. The College of Presidents decided that the draft law should be examined in a simplified manner and the Committee therefore considered the draft law on the basis of Rule 142 of the Rules of Procedure. The Committee was co-sponsored by Mr Robert Hrovat, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, the State Council, the Peace Institute, the Legebiter Society and the Civil Initiative "for the Family and Children's Rights". The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government's opinion, the State Council's opinion, and within the time limit, qualified applicants did not submit amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u45	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u46	In his opening statement, the representative of the motions for proposals, Robert Hrovat, pointed out that the proposal for a law followed the abolition of the non-compliance of Article 22 of the Law on the Registration of the same-sex partnership community established by the Constitutional Court decision. He stressed that the applicants wanted the issue of the succession of partners in the same-sex partnership to be adequately addressed in accordance with this Decision. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs agreed that the applicants were trying to remedy the inconsistencies identified by this bill, but in the procedure there is a government proposal for a family code where a comprehensive reform of family law is proposed by systematic regulation of the situation of same-sex partners. However, the representative of the Council of State said that the State Council does not support the bill, as it agrees with the Government's view that a comprehensive reform of family law has systematically regulated the situation of same-sex partnerships. In the debate, the proponents of the draft law stressed in particular that the applicants followed a decision of the Constitutional Court which would not be respected if this proposal was not adopted. In view of the long procedure envisaged for the adoption of the family code, the referendum is likely to be an even longer period of non-compliance with the Constitutional Court decision, which provides that the finding of non-compliance should be corrected within six months. They therefore considered that the adoption of this proposal was necessary, even if only for a time until the family code was adopted. However, the other panellists stressed that the Constitutional Court had ordered the National Assembly to remove the finding of non-compliance within six months, but also provided that, pending the abolition of this non-conformity, this succession between the partners of the registered same-sex partnerships should be governed by the same rules as those applicable to the succession between spouses under the Succession Act, i.e. that these communities are not deprived of this period. The Constitution has only been judged from one point of view, but the whole type of other relationship that has been properly regulated by the Family Code proposal has not yet been regulated in a systematic and comprehensive manner. After the discussion, the Committee, with three votes in favour and three against, adopted that the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership Community was not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law, France Tsukati, for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the mother labour body.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye! Indeed, last July the Constitutional Court said that inheritance between same-sex partners should be regulated in the same way as for inheritance between spouses and set a deadline of six months. The explanation stated: "We are talking about discriminatory treatment when the State treats individuals differently in equal situations on the basis of personal circumstances." Further: "The registered partner community is a relationship which by content is similar to a marriage or an extra-marital community. For this community too, a stable relationship between the two people close to each other, helping each other and supporting each other is an essential feature," the Constitutional Court said. With the proposal to amend this law, we are following the request of the Constitutional Court as proponents. This is our second attempt, because you rejected the first of the coalition and did not support it even in terms of supporting the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party, which followed the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service. We have now incorporated these comments into this second proposal, which is also recognised in the new opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service. The previous proposal rejected the coalition by noting that succession would also be governed by the Family Code, which would make the marriage relationship more accurate with the same partner community. To prevent this from happening again or again, they point to the following facts. The States of the European Union which have a legally regulated same-sex partnership - these are listed in the explanatory memorandum, namely, Germany, Sweden, France and others - do not equate this same-sex partnership with the marriage or family, except the Netherlands, and regulate inheritance differently from that of the Constitutional Court. I don't know if these countries are in conflict with international rules and documents that are advocated for the protection of human rights. However, we want to follow the Constitutional Court and determine the succession procedures in the same sex partnership as they do in the marriage relationship. The Constitutional Court does not refer to equality, but rather to the similarity between the same-sex partnership and marriage. We reiterate that these two communities are similar in the relationship between partners. The relationship between partners is similar to that between spouses. However, there is a fundamental difference here and there is no similarity between the family, the marital union and the same-sex partnership in another essential matter, which is the orientation towards the birth, the birth of a child and the creation of a biological-natural family. That's why I don't think we should go any further than you predict in the family code. If the situation, as the Constitutional Court says, quote: "If the positions we compare are not essentially the same, we cannot talk about unconstitutional discrimination." And the situation that is now legal in Slovenia does not constitute discrimination if same-sex partners are dealt with in another law than in the Family Code. We also point out that the first consideration of the family code is not envisaged at the February session either. And if this Family Code is adopted, then, of course, the Law on the same-sex partnership community, as proposed now in the family code, will end and there will be no problem. But if it is not accepted, for which there is a real possibility, then the unconstitutional situation to which the Constitutional Court has pointed will continue to the gods to where. For this reason, I propose that you reject the proposal of the working body and let us return this proposal to the next procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for the opening presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Anja Kopač Mrak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The government is seven. 1. This year, it adopted an opinion on a proposal for a law amending the law on the registration of the same-sex partnership community submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank. In this case, the proposer is proposed to amend Articles 8 and 22 and Article 23 of the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership Community, which, as has been pointed out more than once, should end the founding unconstitutionality in the existing law. The Government does not support the bill, since it intends to systematically regulate the situation of same-sex partners by means of a comprehensive reform of family law, taking into account the Constitutional Court's finding that the distinction in the legal regime of both communities, including the legal consequences of these communities, is based not on some real, non-personal distinguishing circumstance, but on sexual orientation, which is unacceptable in view of the constitutional arrangements of the Republic of Slovenia. The government in the proposal for a family code proposes that such a community should be equal in all aspects to the marriage. We also suggest that the recognition of the legal consequences of the extramarital community or of the living community of two persons of the same sex who have not entered into marriage is not the reason why marriage between them would be invalid. The proposed amendment to Article 22 of the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership Community would only regulate the legal status of same-sex partnerships, but not entirely, as the Government intends with the proposal of the Family Code. This proposal will take full account of the position of the Constitutional Court that a distinction based on sexual orientation as a personal circumstance is not allowed. In addition, the Government considers that the proposed amendment law on the registration of same-sex communities is still unclear in Article 2. However, the adoption of the proposed regulation would result, due to its lack of clarity, in the internal inconsistentity of the law and in fact would not completely eliminate the constitutional non-compliance found. This was also the conclusion of the legal service of the National Assembly. Our view is that it is necessary to support the proposal of the parent working body and to wait for a proposal of a family code to come to the National Assembly to regulate this in a comprehensive manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Majda Potrat on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposed law amending the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community is a practical repetition of the law with similar content, which was tabled by the same applicants on 26 October and rejected by the National Assembly as inappropriate. In fact, the bill has only one substantive solution, namely inheritance between partners in a registered same-sex partnership, which is regulated in the same way as for spouses in a marriage or for longer-term male and female communities. This is also the case with the view of the Legislative and Legal Service, which considers that the proposed amendment to Article 8 which also introduces the non-legislative community in the case of the spouses is unnecessary. And if we were to discuss this, we should make this right. The proposed law, according to the applicants, implements a decision of the Constitutional Court which found that Article 22 of the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community Governing Succession is inconsistent with the Constitution. When we mention this fact, it must be said that it was judged from the point of view of compliance with the Constitution only Article 22. However, there is a possibility to regulate the succession between partners in a registered same-sex partnership under the same rules as for spouses in a marriage. Well, it's not a legal void. However, it is worth explaining why Members of the Social Democrats and Members of the proposed amendment to the law will not be supported, although the applicants are referring precisely to the enforcement of the Constitutional Court decision. We believe that one of the fundamental messages of the Constitutional Court decision has been overlooked in a deliberate or unwitting manner. This is a message that any distinction or discrimination based on sexual orientation is unacceptable and that is why it is possible to deal with these issues, which are linked to the same-sex partnership law. Social Democrats advocate the equalization of all relationships between two adults. These matters, these relations are properly regulated in the proposed family code and we give our energy and our consent to the proposed family code. Let me remind you that the Group of Social Democrats has not so far expressed its callous support for the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership due to the fact that it has in the past prepared a bill on the same-sex partnership, which has better regulated the same-sex relationship than is regulated in the applicable law on the registration of the same-sex partnership. We therefore feel that, given that we have before us the Family Code, which adequately defines marriage and family, it is pointless to correct something that we do not fully agree on at the beginning and which is unacceptable for those who intend to register such a same-sex community; this is also one of the basic readings. We therefore believe that it is worth supporting the proposed conclusion of the working body that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present! The proposal for amendments to the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community follows the decision of the Constitutional Court on 2 July 2009, which concluded that, under Article 33 of the Constitution, the right to inheritance is a human right. Article 14 of the Constitution, however, prohibits discrimination in the enjoyment of human rights in the light of individual personal circumstances, including the same-sex orientation. Well, it follows that the mutual inheritance of same-sex partners must be similarly arranged as inheritance between spouses. Therefore, the Constitutional Court’s decision is based on the assessment that the registered partnership relationship, which is similar in content, I stress, is similar to that of the legal community, because it is also characterised by a stable relationship between the two persons close to each other, respect each other, trust each other, help each other and support each other. Although the proposer of the Law on the same-sex partnership, i.e. in the previous term, intended to fully regulate the property situation of the same-sex partners, as is the case with the marriage, he did not pay sufficient attention to all of this, although he did not really have the specificity of inheritance. Therefore, we are now proposing to amend the law which regulates these shortcomings in the manner required by the Constitutional Court's decision. The fact is, a rare country in the world has this issue regulated by the Family Code, such as the ambition of our Government. And, therefore, in Slovenia we will regulate this in the Family Code. This does not seem appropriate in the Slovenian Democratic Party. If we look at the practices of other countries, we see that laws governing inheritance have special laws. We are getting a feeling or wondering what the coalition and the government really wants by rejecting this proposal that we are proposing in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We have a feeling that you want to place the Constitutional Court's request in the Family Code at all costs so that, after it is done, because, according to the things contained in the Family Code, there is no doubt that there will be a request for a referendum, you can refer in coalition to a decision of the Constitutional Court which obliges us to settle this matter and at all costs try to prevent a referendum. I am talking, of course, about the coming family code, which also regulates the possibility of adopting children to same-sex couples, which is unacceptable for the Slovenian Democratic Party. So the fact is that this law or this bill follows the decision of the Constitutional Court. If you feel or feel that this law is not perfect, you have had or are now in a position to accept amendments or to let the law go into further consideration, to propose improvements, to arrange it and eventually to regulate it in a similar way in Europe. The insistence of the coalition on rejecting the bill proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party is therefore incomprehensible to us. The law follows the decision of the Constitutional Court. We have taken into account all the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service. The law is comparable to the laws of the European Union and the views of NGOs are also taken into account. So all the reception conditions are met. No, actually, there's one thing that doesn't matter. The proposer is the Slovenian Democratic Party and not the Government or coalition. We are already used to this, so by your decision not to support the bill, you did not actually surprise us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u56	Say good-bye to everyone again! For the second time in this mandate, the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled a proposal for an amendment to the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership, which seeks to eliminate the non-compliance of Article 22 of the Act established by a decision of the Constitutional Court. And it has to be admitted that the second attempt is better than the first one, at least it seems so. It is intended to briefly regulate the legal situation of same-sex partnerships in the area of succession. In the Group of Members, however, we do stress that the proposal for a law partially implements the Constitutional Court's decision because the applicants do not have or, worse than possible, do not want to have a comprehensive view of the same-sex partnership community. In our opinion, a comprehensive approach to the implementation of the decision is covered by the Proposal for a Family Code, which has already been forwarded by the Government to the Parliamentary Procedure of the National Assembly, which is well known by the proponents of this present novel. And in it, in the Family Code, it is a comprehensive regulation of family law, which, in our view, also belongs to the same-sex partner community. From the Constitution the resulting fact is that any distinction based on sexual orientation is not allowed. Therefore, the introduction of such, for example, segregation legislation for - and here we differ - similarly, the same or the same area seems to be inappropriate in this constitutionally unacceptable distinction. What is the area that legislation must regulate, where the boundaries of similarities and when equality is created, of course, is also different in this respect. At the time of presentation of the opinion of the applicant, it was also unacceptable for me to associate marriage with the family. Of course, this has nothing to do with itself. You're all old enough to know how kids come into the world. So as the next reason for this argument range, I expect the fact that, for example, I will hear here that storks have instructions that only married couples deliver children. Of course it's not, things are different. We do not agree on similarity and equality here. Our opinion, in short, is that it also belongs to the regulation of same-sex partnerships in the Family Code, because it is so similar to "matter" that it belongs to the same or the same legislation. The fact that the Constitutional Court is also talking to this in favour is that, pending the removal of the found non-compliance between the partners of a registered same-sex community, the same rules - "the same rules" - have been written by the Constitutional Court - as are applicable to inheritance between spouses under the Succession Act. Therefore, even if the Constitutional Court considers that the relationship is similar, it considers that the same rules should apply. And that's it. We have some other cases of legislation that regulate similar relations in the same law because they believe that similarity is such that the same legislation applies to their regulation. In short, the fact already mentioned confirms us in the belief that even when this law is not adopted, the rights of those affected by the express decision of the Constitutional Court will be respected. So, unconstitutionality is not coming from this point of view. The completeness of the arrangement, as we say, will be regulated by the content of the coming family code. For all of this we will indeed confirm in the Group of Members the decision of the parent working body that the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Registration of the same-sex partner community is not suitable for further consideration. With all the above, I would like to reiterate my call to support, in the spirit of constitutional protection, if this is truly true, in the future together, the family code, which undoubtedly follows the changes in our society. The family code is treated not only in the same way, but also in the same way as the Slovenian Catholic Church, it does not have to be feared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Your Honor, Madam Secretary of State. Colleagues and colleagues. Members of the Slovenian People's Party support the draft law that we have before us today, as it follows the Constitutional Court's decision. The aim of the applicants is to regulate the law in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, since both paragraphs 8 and 22 and 23 are added in this proposal. So a comprehensively harmonised law with a constitutional decision, although the rejecting government and members of the coalition seem to think otherwise. The adoption and amendment of this law would call aside the need for the content covered by the Constitutional Decision to be regulated in the Family Code, since the same-sex community, in our opinion, is not part of the proposed solution at all. For the Constitutional Court finds that communities are similar in substance and not in fact, only Article 22 of the Law on the Registration of the same-sex partnership has been repealed. It is certain that communities differ in essential ingredients. The marriage and family are intended primarily for the care of common children, which differs significantly from the same-sex community, because, due to the nature of the community, it is a fact that there can be no common children. We do not agree with the Government's explanation, which misinterprets the Constitutional Court's decision in this part, both in the Family Code and in the interpretation of the opinion of this law, and wrongly equates this community with the marriage union in fact, not only in the regulation of legal matters, for which the Constitutional Court has used a comparison. The maintenance of the institution of marriage as a community of husband and wife is in line with the strictest standard of human rights protection at home and in the world. The right to marriage is in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in a language and systematic manner comparable to that of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and therefore there are no factual or legal reasons to change it. In view of the fact that we have always stressed the need to address certain property and legal issues of same-sex communities, we will support these changes or vote against the Committee's proposal for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by the mag. Your Clavor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u60	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. Our parliamentary group has already rejected the amendment of the same law at its 12th regular meeting, because it was not sufficiently prepared in the direction of a comprehensive resolution of non-compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court, and also in view of the fact that the future family code will fully regulate the situation of the same-sex partnership. Today, in the amendment under consideration, the proposal followed the substantive warnings given by the Legal and Legal Service on the previous amendment and the shortcomings which were the main reason for the rejection of the proposal. Nevertheless, our Group will support the decision of the parent working body on the inadequacy of the law for further consideration, as it is estimated that it is reasonable to wait for a code which will also be regulated by the same-sex partner community and the resulting relationship. The proposal for a family code results in an equalization of the marriage of persons of the same sex with the marriage of persons of different sexes in all legal consequences, both under this law and in legal consequences in other legal areas relating to marriage. Such arrangements follow the findings of the Constitutional Court that the distinction in the legal order of both communities, including the legal consequences of these communities, should not be based on the sexual orientation of the individual. Thus, the question of the succession of same-sex partners will also be settled so that the same-sex partners who will be equal in the official marriage relationship with the spouses, if I may say, from the so-called classic unions. On the basis of the application or more detailed application of the Family Code provided for on 1 May 2011, the Registration Act of the same-sex partnership will also expire on that date. Since, in addition to establishing the non-constitutionality of the law, the Constitutional Court has also established a means of enforcing the decision, in order to eliminate a finding of non-compliance with the succession between the partners of the registered same-sex partnership community, the same rules as those applicable to the succession between spouses under the Succession Act, I can therefore conclude that the situation of the same-sex partners on the issue of succession will also apply in the meantime until the family code is adopted and applicable, is adequately resolved if the proposal for the amendment in question is rejected. In view of the above, the Members of our Group agree with the proposed decision of the home working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Srečko Friend. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! The reasons for the adoption of this law are, of course, the legal nature and the first and fundamental objective of the proposed amendment to the Law on the Registration of Same-Sex Partnerships is to regulate the legal situation of these unions. And in this area, Article 22 is being amended and it is not possible to say that these partnerships would not be the same before marriage. The point is that Article 22 of the existing law on same-sex partnerships defines an inheritance for partners and provides that, in the event of the death of a partner, the surviving partner has the right to inherit the share of the common property under this law. It further states that in the case of a prodigal having children, the surviving partner and the prodigal’s children shall inherit the surviving partner in the same parts and in the case of a prodigal having no children, the surviving partner shall inherit the entire proportion. I don't see any, I'm going to say, things like that that that could dictate to your mother's working body to take such a decision. The law proposed by the proposers is perfectly appropriate and will receive full support from the Slovenian National Party. The full reform of family law, of course, requires a new law. I agree that this marriage will come to the National Assembly when it comes and if it does. However, we do not agree in the Slovenian National Party that this law will also regulate this area, because it is not a family, simply stated, it is not a family. And even in our opinion, such a community cannot adopt children. You're going to do a new wrong. A new injustice to these children, who will also be despised at the most sensitive stage of adulthood and, of course, also in primary schools, are despised by kindergartens. In a way, you can experience this if you put yourself in the position of an observer, and you will see what this child will have to endure. I have already said in previous cases that there is probably no one in the National Assembly who would like to have such a child, is said to bring home a partner of the same sex, but this is also happening and we in the Slovenian National Party are not against such a relationship. I may have been misinterpreted at times, and even because of this at the International Court of Justice in Strasbourg today, in fact these ladies and gentlemen are persecuting me because I allowed myself to say what I said earlier in my previous term in the National Assembly. To me, both the first instance of the court and the second and the Supreme Court have determined that I am right. This is essentially about having to protect the most vulnerable group, these are children, in the best possible way. And see if you excuse yourself for liking, and this is the fashion today, to be different, because you will like it, of course you will also regulate this area in such a way that you will allow the same-sex partnership to legally adopt a child, you will do one great injustice that we will not be able to correct. The proposal is about European comparability in Germany, France, etc. Of course, they treat the relationship of two same-sex partners there as a relationship that is legal-formal and valid, but far from being the kind of rights that we want to legitimize here in some way. I am also deeply convinced that the government wants to be liked in this area because in fact there are these, to say the connection, something and there is also a "account". I also understand that, I understand, okay, it's a "account." It's a "account" in deleted, it's a "account" in Gypsy, it's also a "account" in Roma, even in these groups. Okay. But, look, the distinction and discrimination you're going to do is you're going to do the moment you're going to go into some law that shouldn't have this kind of problem defined, so in the family code, you're going to regulate and push into this area, you're going to do a lot of wrong. I think that the amendment of the law is suitable for further consideration and we will also fully support this law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! In the proposal for a law, applicants are again, for the second time, trying to resolve the issue of the succession of same-sex partnerships, as pointed out by the Constitutional Court. In their second attempt, the applicants, to be recognised, have prepared a better proposal, as the proposal for a legal novel also addressed amendments to the first paragraph of Article 8 of the applicable law. This is all that was left out in the first proposal, which was pointed out by both the Legislative and Legal Service and the Government. However, it should be noted that the applicants still do not understand or do not want to understand that the explanation of the Constitutional Court’s decision is that, in the event of a distinction in sexual orientation, there is a broader content that is not followed by the previous and not new proposals for amending the law. In other words, the underlying problems, the distinction as such, and this distinction is not based on the actual different circumstances, but on sexual orientation. The proposer should follow the abolition of the non-compliance of Article 22 of the Registration Act of the same-sex partner community established by a decision of the Constitutional Court setting a 6-month time limit for the elimination of non-compliance and that the removal of same-sex communities is subject to the same rules as those applicable to the succession between spouses under the Succession Act. The proposer wants to correct the differences again. In the event that the prodigal does not inherit the surviving same-sex partner, the total share of the common property while the spouse inherits only half of the inheritance in the second succession, and the other half is inherited by the progeny of the progeny of the progeny of the progeny of the progeny of the progeny of the progeny of the progeny of the progeny of the progeny of the progeny of the progeny of the progeny. If the prodigal does not have children, he inherits the entire legacy only if both parents of the progeny have died before the progeny and have left no offspring. The same-sex partner cannot inherit the special property of his partner, the same-sex partner is not a member of the necessary heirs and is not entitled to the marriage. In the proposal we can recognise perseverance, but in the Liberal Democrats' Club we will support a comprehensive solution to the equal treatment of different forms of living communities by systematically regulating this area in the family code, which the proposaler probably does not want. We will therefore once again support the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration. We still believe in the Liberal Democrats' Club that these are issues that cannot or are not best handled separately or in part. This can result in disagreements or different handling of the same issues in different laws. We therefore support the Government's decision in the Liberal Democrats' Chamber that the same-sex partnership community should be regarded as part of family law and as such is not regulated in the family code already in the parliamentary procedure. Such legal arrangements will also follow the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and eliminate the finding of non-compliance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is the first defensively proposed law to supplement the law on the representativeness of trade unions, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the Magi bill. Branku Grims for further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u66	Your Honor! On behalf of the SDS, everyone has a very nice greeting! And since we have already talked a lot about the State Council today, let me start with two statements made by Mr Dusan Semolič, a representative of employees, who is also president of the largest union or union centre in Slovenia at a meeting of the competent committee of the State Council when this bill was considered. He stated two facts that were extremely interesting and could place this debate in a different light from those in the past period. Dušan Semolič, as a representative of the employees, said two. Firstly, the social dialogue as a value in the last mandate has taken place significantly better and, I quote, "substantially more liquid" than it is now. And the second thing he said. He pointed out that it was good that this subject, which was opened by this law, opened up and that it could be openly discussed. If we compare this with the conduct of the largest union centre on the previous examination of this law a few months ago, when only the day after the hearing in this National Assembly was sent to Parliament a letter with the content to examine whether they would eliminate the possibility of obtaining at least some data on the operation of the trade union by Apes against payment. And you know that was the main excuse with which the ruling coalition then rejected this bill. Of course, it's obvious how big a change in the union's position is if you compare these two facts. Why the change? It is obvious that trade unions are aware of the difficulties in which the Slovenian economy and Slovenian workers are located and the trade unions with them indirectly. The Yugoslav script is being implemented. The government and the ruling coalition are wooded into the Yugoslav scenario with crazy debt. In a single year, each taxpayer has been so indebted that the total amount is €6.3 billion in one year alone - I am talking only about what the budget is for, so is the state guarantee and direct debt - €6.3 billion is 12.6 billion of the former brands in which we were all used to count. And I would remind you that this is more than half the debt of the former Yugoslavia that this coalition has produced in a single year, and the unions know well that someone will have to pay for it. From the point of view of economists, this will pay, sooner or later, for the Slovenian economy, someone will pay for this crazy sacrifice. From the point of view of trade unions, of course, this will be paid by Slovenian workers and they, as their representative, are aware of what this means in practice. In some ways, this is even more tragic if we are aware that, at this point, the number of unemployed is still increasing, unlike many Western countries, which have central or right-centre governments, where employment is rising and even the government President's announcement, when in one year the number of unemployed persons arrived at around 100,000, will be 120 000 unemployed, and that this will be a great achievement of this government. Please! Clearly, then, unions are also in distress, and they are aware of the need to act differently. In this way, if so, of course, any necessary action or action that is, in a way, a little comic when instead of demanding jobs, the Unions choose and dance to Balkan beats to sing the International. Yeah, good morning?Oh, my God! Who's in the area? Then you should have a banner or give jobs or repent. Of course, if the Syndicate wants to implement politics in such situations, it must have the full confidence of its members. However, the full confidence of its members can only be demonstrated by the fact that their business is transparent and at any moment, of course, each member or potential member can see how this is happening in practice. This way they fall away, then all doubts about where the money from union membership is poured. We have heard indications that even through savings and loans, the owners should then be financed by redemption. It'll be then. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes. Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u68	the trust of workers in the Union, thereby allowing social dialogue to be maintained as a value. [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u69	Mr. Grimes, you're in red numbers, please stop. Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Anja Kopač Mrak, State Secretary of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Once again, a nice greeting, Mr President, and all Members and Members of Parliament. We have before us a similar proposal to supplement the Code on the Representation of Trade Unions, which was tabled by the same Group of Members in September last year and which was not supported in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in October 2009, with a wide-ranging discussion at the end of the proposal. The current proposal by the Group of Members and Members is almost identical to the previous one and refers to the mandatory public publication of the annual reports of the Syndicates through the Apes by supplementing it in the work relating to the provision of funds for the public publication of the annual reports. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also strongly opposes this somewhat complementary proposal. With regard to the conclusion of the applicants that the Unions are a legal person of private law who, under the Accounting Act and under the Appes State Statistics Act, are required to submit an annual report each year, it should be noted that this obligation does not apply to all Unions. The law on the representativeness of the Union provides that the trade union becomes a legal person from the date of the decision to keep the statute, on the basis of which the trade union is also registered in the register of trade union statutes, which is by no means a condition for the existence of a trade union. The decision gives the union only the opportunity to operate in legal traffic and to open its own account, to which it is not bound. The operation, financing and operation of trade unions is completely left to their internal rules of the game and transparency is a matter of their internal rules. In view of the international instruments, it must also not be restricted by law. The general declaration of human rights already defines trade union freedom as a fundamental human right. The International Act on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, as well as the amended European Social Charter of the Council of Europe, also lays down the freedom of trade union organisation and the prohibition of any conduct and interference of a country that restricts the functioning of trade unions. Taking into account the international provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, Article 76 provides that the establishment and functioning of trade unions and the integration of trade unions are free, thereby ensuring trade union freedom and preventing the State from interfering with their functioning. With regard to the evidence of the closure of the reports on the property and operation of the trade union, it is necessary to clarify that Apes must, by law, provide data to anyone who so requests, so that, if anyone so wishes, he can obtain such data. So, even if workers fail within the union to ensure transparency, they still have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mr Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are re-investing in the procedure of the law on the representativeness of trade unions, this time slightly supplemented. We hope that this time we will not receive such sharp arrows and accusations. Let me explain once again what we're proposing and what we want. All we want is the transparency of the operation and that every member of the union at any time without paying any attention to the work of the institution that he is a member of. Now only union officials have free access. This can only be achieved by making the annual reports publicly available. However, the reports, as you know, contain balance sheets, income statements, expenditure statements, explanations of these statements, business reports and the like. This requirement is also comprehensible due to the restoration of trust in trade unions, even due to our historical specificities, the conclusion that trade unions also own shares has increased doubts about use. It's all right, but there's a whole bunch of questions coming up right now, whose shares, and how much, why those who made that decision. That's the way it is if the union balance or anyone else's balance sheets aren't public. Finally, according to classical theory, union membership is also used to compensate workers’ salaries in the case of a sentence; of course, this has not yet been the case with us. Once again, let me say that we are not restricting anyone to this law. The ruling coalition has rejected our previous proposal with a clear argument that the independence of trade unions should not be affected because they are individuals of private law. This is true, but it is also something else which together forms a whole: with the Trade Unions Representativeness Act, the State has given trade unions public authority to negotiate with the State on behalf of workers. This is, of course, a credit rating, an added value that increases the attractiveness of such a union, thus also increasing the power and effective representation of workers. So, the state has granted the unions representativeness and power, that is, rights, and the law no longer mentions duty. This is an anomaly because these institutions no longer need to prove that the conditions of representativeness are still met and, in particular, to report their work to the public. Recent developments have shown that it would still be right if these data were public, in order to obtain these data primarily from members without payment. It is an anomaly that a member of an institution, in this case a union that pays membership fees, gets information about the management of its organisation against payment. That's what you say, pay if you want to get information on how the person you're paying your membership fee is doing business. That's a little weird. I would like to point out that no one in the Slovenian Democratic Party claims that funds are being manipulated and that the union membership of more than half a million Slovenian workers is being used unintentionally, but that the annual reports of trade unions, which, according to some media information, range into tens of millions of euros, are not public, so there are questions and doubts as to whether they are justified or not; they would not be judged. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose to amend the law so that the balance sheets of trade unions will be public, i.e. transparent for every citizen, without any additional payment for inspection. If everything is all right, you don't have to hide anything and damage yourself after unnecessary work. Transparency of work and employment would ensure a return of trust in trade unions. I think this is the right time to do just that. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we reiterate that we do not take any rights from anyone and we do not interfere with anyone's work and independence. All we want is transparency of business and therefore we want the union balance sheets to be public, so it is open that they are public. We therefore believe that such a law is appropriate for the continuation of the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. For the second time in this mandate, the Slovenian Democratic Party wants to amend the Trade Unions Representation Act. Otherwise, at the National Assembly, we had already expressed disagreement with the content and the law was rejected. Applicants state that the aim of the novel is to define the public principle of the obligation to disclose public information on the operation and property of trade unions or their annual reports, which should be a condition for their successful operation and achievement of the objectives. In addition, the law also includes the provision of compensation for the public publication of annual reports, for which more detailed rules are to be drawn up by the competent ministry. Given that we have not really supported the previous draft law in the Group of Members, we will not do so today, as the content has not changed significantly. I don't know if anything's gonna help, but I'm going to point out the main reasons behind our decisions. The applicants stress, as has already been said, that the unions of a private legal person who, under the Accounting Act and the State Statistics Act, are required to submit an annual report to Apes each year, consisting of a balance sheet, a statement of revenue and expenditure, explained to the statements and a business report. They argue, however, that these reports have not been made public in accordance with the legislation and that this is the main guide in the preparation of the novel. The government explained that this obligation does not apply to all trade unions. The law on the representativeness of trade unions does not oblige trade unions to have their own business. Thus, not all trade unions are committed to submitting annual reports. The law therefore provides only a legal basis for the acquisition of the legal personality of the trade union and thus enables it to operate in legal traffic, whereas only the operation, financing and operation of trade unions is left to the internal rule and is not legally established. Such arrangements are based on a constitutional decision to ensure the exercise of union freedom, which is also the basis of international documents. It should be noted, however, that, according to the Accounting Act, the public record business books are a source of data for the annual report. The same law provides that Ipes must allow anyone who wishes to do so to have an overview of the annual reports of trade unions, which means that any interested person can be informed of the transaction data and the level of their assets, if he fails to do so within the union. The reasons for the adoption of the amendment, in short, according to our assessment, are not justified and we will not support it as an appropriate basis for the continuation of the legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Once again a nice greeting to all present. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposal to supplement the law because we support the public publication of data on the property and business of trade unions. This proposal also regulates the arrangements for the payment of compensation for the public publication of annual reports, which was not regulated or proposed in the proposal of May of the previous year. Trade unions are legal entities of private law and therefore the reports that trade unions are obliged to submit annually to the Agency for Public Records and Services are not now public. However, it is also true that the Accounting Act in Article 51 also provides that the Yipes, which we have with us is the organisation responsible for processing and publishing data, must make available the data from the annual reports of legal persons to anyone who so requests and also issue a copy of the data required against the reimbursement of the actual costs. Therefore, in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, there is no reservation that the data should also be published publicly and be available without a specific request from Apes. The role and importance of trade unions could be compared in terms of financing and business arrangements, with the role of political parties for which transparent business is prescribed. Freedom of association in trade unions and their independent operation are certainly not dependent on the confidentiality of financial transactions. We cannot therefore agree with the Government's view that this law violates the constitutional provisions and provisions of the European Social Charter of the Council of Europe. On the contrary, such a public publication of documents on the property and business of trade unions would have an impact on the greater awareness of the members of these unions and, as a result, would have an impact on the more independent work of trade unions and, above all, trade unions, which, due to this public, would probably have required a new social pact and, lastly, a minimum wage, which is currently the biggest problem in Slovenia. If I finish. The more transparent operation of trade unions would certainly have an impact on their better activity, so the Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the bill's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to present the views of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law supplementing the Trade Unions Act. At the 10th regular meeting of the National Assembly, we have discussed some of the proposals we have today on the tables. Since then, the DeSUS Group has negatively identified itself to this proposal. It has been rejected because most Members have made it clear that what the proposer wants to achieve is public data on the business and property of trade unions, already making it possible under the Law on State Statistics and the Law on Accounting. The latter lays down in its provisions that private legal persons are required to submit annual reports to the API every year. This law also provides that everyone has an opportunity to look into these instruments and therefore any citizen, even if he is not a member of the union, is familiar with the business and property of trade unions. And here we are at the point where we can start by discussing the compatibility of such arrangements with international legal acts as the International Labour Organization Convention 87, the European Convention on Human Rights, the European Social Charter, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. All these acts, according to their content on the principle of freedom of choice and association of unions and their exclusive right to autonomous action, are completely uniform and very clear. In particular, the position of the Committee on Freedom of Association at the International Labour Organisation stresses that the supervision of public institutions over the financial operations of trade unions does not go beyond the obligation to submit periodic reports and that the submission of such reports does not constitute a public publication. However, in their proposal to supplement the law on the representativeness of trade unions, the applicants want to achieve this. Well, this discrimination of trade unions against other private legal persons, for whom public disclosure of reports is not and will not be compulsory, although it might be good for those who are also financed from the money of all taxpayers not only from their own funds obtained on the basis of membership fees. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposal is unfounded because it excessively interferes with the autonomy of the operation of voluntary organisations that are not financed from the budget. It is unfounded because this is what international legal acts and practices of other countries speak; it is unfounded because it undermines the credibility of trade unions and raises doubts and trust in their members and their associations, where they have entered voluntarily and in which they are socially striving for their legitimate and deserved rights. So that is enough reasons why Members of the DeSUS Group will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the SNS Group will be presented by Mr Victory Jelinčič Nobleni.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you very much for your words and again welcome. It is high time to open that Pandora box called the Union in Slovenia. Gentlemen get fat at the expense of workers who don't give them anything. Nothing happens to the unions except that once a year they organize a meeting on the road and, of course, they spend a lot of money on buying a sandwich and a drink. This is probably millions and millions of dollars, because millions of euros deserve trade unions. Semolic's union is supposed to have 200,000 members, so he says. Given that the union membership is 1% of the salary and that the average salary is 1,000 euros - to make it easier to calculate per month - it amounts to 10 euros per person per month. That's two million euros a month. And because it's 12 months old, it's 24 million euros of money, which we don't even know where he went, where he went, who had him. If we took poor workers in Mura, they paid between 7 and 15 euros a month. Where the money is, nobody knows where Mura is. Nobody knows. But the fact is, every union is "licking" with the government, and that's also why the government doesn't support this bill. Of course, it will lose control of the huge number of workers it now provides through union leaders. Union leaders are, however, sacred cows that are untouchable, the leadership of the unions is untouchable, because if I am not mistaken, we have been looking at the same faces since 1992 and if we only take Mr Semolic, who said he did not intend to resign, we will look at them until their death. And I wonder where these insatiable unions come from - of course from the membership of the workers! And what do they do for the workers? Nothing. Give me one example in Slovenia when a union organization filed a complaint against a tycoon. There's not a single case! Give me one example of a case for the protection of the constitutional right to work at the close of good companies, such as Drugs, Kolinska, MIP and so on! Not a single suit! What would one think? That the unions "skidded with these tycoons together with the government to fill their own pockets. There's nothing else to be done about it. And now it is necessary to jump up and ban anyone from looking into these financial transactions that gentlemen are doing with tens of millions of euros. Of course, the salaries of these leaders there are about 8,000 euros, and when our parliamentary group received this information and gave our media information, no one published anything! Of course not, because the Government has already made sure that they will not be published, as there is no answer to the question that our Group of Members has put on the Government on 12 October 2009, but the Government is "wrong" for everything. Because it's cute to have a pocketful of money, and the workers "screw" to "screw" because we don't have any use for them. That's what the government thinks. That's what the Unions think. And, then, gentlemen with heavy wages are still taking prizes from the so-called strike fund, taking out travel costs, lending interest-free loans, and no one is controlling it. In short, the money goes here and there and nobody gets hurt. Various objects, properties that I know of, on Pluci, in Bohinj, are, of course, only available for the leadership of trade unions. A regular unionist can't afford to go on vacation to Bohinj, because there's only gentlemen from the union. This is the face of our democracy. The image of Slovenian democracy, which is dirty to the end! All the way. Of course, the government will not agree with this because it benefits, because if the law is passed, the government will lose leverage on the basis of which the union is squeezing, if you do not work with us, if you do not help that the matter is going as we say, but we will tell you how much money "make sure" and where the money goes. Clearly, no one wants to lose that leverage. Why was the union movement at the beginning of the United States of America in the hands of the Mafia? For these same reasons, and that is why the government does not want to change that!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. Again, we have a proposal to supplement the Trade Unions Representativeness Act proposed by the same parliamentary group, which has already been rejected in the National Assembly. The only change compared to the previous amendment to the bill is that, this time, in addition to the public publication of the annual reports of trade unions via the Iipes, the applicants also propose arrangements for the payment of the publication fee and lay down that the Minister of Labour shall lay down a more detailed rule on the way in which the annual reports are submitted and made public. This time we will not support the proposal in the Liberal Democrats' Chamber. However, the reasons for this have remained unchanged, namely that trade unions belong to private legal entities and we must submit an annual report to the applicable legislation of Apes. However, it is wrong to argue that the reports are not publicly or publicly available, as the source of the annual reports is the public record, which consists of a balance sheet, a statement of revenue and expenditure, and so on. In summary, Ipes must allow anyone who wishes to be a member or a member of the union or any citizen or citizen to have a look at the annual reports of trade unions. This lays down already existing legislation, which means that the main objective of the proposal, i.e. the principle of the public, has already been achieved. In doing so, we can ask ourselves what the interest of the proposers is in fact. In addition, the applicants missed two more details. Firstly, that no legal provision obliges all unions to have their own business, which means that they are not all bound to submit annual reports. The law does provide a legal basis for the acquisition of legal personality characteristics, but, on the other hand, only the operation, financing and operation of trade unions is left to their internal rule and is not regulated by law. Secondly, that such an arrangement is intended, in accordance with the Constitution which provides for the freedom of operation of trade unions, as well as with international documents, from the General Declaration of Human Rights to the European Social Charter of the Council of Europe, which binds Slovenia as a democratic state and as a credible and responsible member of international organisations. All these provisions and international instruments define trade union freedom, which is also characteristic of the fact that the State must not, in principle, restrict trade unions in their operations or operate in a way that would limit the freedom of workers to the establishment of organisations to protect their economic and social interests. On the basis of the proposed bill referred to in the Member States' Club, we will not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State [[Currently she's not here.]] , colleagues and colleagues! We have a proposal for amendments to the Law on the Representation of Unions, which we have already dealt with and also rejected; I hope it will be so this time. In fact, there are no significant differences between the first proposal and this proposal. The substance of this proposal is also public property and trade unions, as the proponents say. Annual reports of trade unions should be made public, this is their request. Since the purpose of the proposal is the same and the content does not differ significantly, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, let me repeat the conclusions and our views which I have presented months ago. Let me certainly say that this is not a law that saves Slovenia from the crisis. And when you tell us that we're not dealing with the crisis enough, it's certainly your good contribution. It can be concluded from this proposal that the applicant is completely unaware of the purpose and purpose of the law on the representativeness of trade unions. The purpose of the law is not to regulate the way trade unions operate in the Republic of Slovenia, but rather to determine the way they acquire legal personality and obtain quality representation - this is the law in which you interfere. The obligation to submit an annual report and its publication in that law have no bearing either on the acquisition of legal personality or on the acquisition of representativeness. The property of the legal person of the union, because the union acquires by issuing a decision on the retention of the statute or other basic act, is a condition for the achievement of the characteristics of the legal person. As a condition of representativeness, the law provides for the democratic functioning and exercise of freedom of union membership, the exercise of membership rights and at the same time obligations, the continuity of operation for at least the last six months, the independence of state authorities and employers - I stress this in particular, the independence of state authorities and employers - the financing mostly from membership and other own resources and a certain number of members under the law. Trade union assessments can and are different, but it is not possible to overlook the fact that the establishment and functioning of trade unions and the integration of trade unions are also completely free. The state must not interfere with the operation of trade unions. The right to freely establish unions also means the right of trade unions to adopt their own rules of action and to freely choose their representatives. This means, of course, that workers are free to decide whether to join the union, how they will organize the union, how they will operate, and how they will operate with their assets. Many words have been used in the past in connection with property. But an agreement has been reached, let me remind you again. An agreement was reached on the distribution of assets where the assets received by each trade union centre were also clearly and publicly signed. The members and members of the union shall also organise supervision, which shall be carried out by the supervisory committees within each union. Their task is to control the operation of the union and to manage the assets. Members and members of the Union shall elect or appoint the compositions of these Supervisory Committees, which shall report their findings to the authorities of the Union - and once again, essentially, membership in the Union is not compulsory, is the freedom of an individual, is the freedom of an employee to decide according to his own judgment. To these individuals, members and members, it is the responsibility of the management to present its work and business transparently - that is, to its members and members also to carry out their activities with property, not to all, not to those who are not members. This would be reasonable and legally binding if we were to be financed from the state budget, but not, as is known, even in the smallest proportion. I introduced you to the comparisons in the European Union months ago, and let me repeat it because we are not listening well in this meeting. If I walk through countries, I can find out; neighbouring Austria - there is no legal obligation for trade unions to publish financial reports publicly. Belgium - there is no legal obligation. Czech Republic - no legal obligation. Estonia, while adopted there in July 2008 and amended the Law on Non-profit Organisations, which requires trade unions to publish their financial reports publicly from 2010 onwards. Greece - there is no legal obligation. Ireland - published data refer only to the number of members of the trade union co-financed by the worker; the amount of all revenue in one year is the amount of expenditure and the final situation in the account. Italy - there is no legal obligation. Hungary - there is no legal obligation. Germany - there is no legal obligation. Yeah, I'm not going to say it again. In the vast majority of countries there is no legal obligation, there is no such thing as what you require by this proposal. It is really difficult to find an argument for the proposal that we have today on the table. Not only would the adoption of today's proposal be an intervention in the autonomy of the trade union provided by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It would be contrary to international documents. Let me mention only the International Labour Organization Convention 87 on Union Freedoms and the Protection of Union Rights. In this respect, it is worth noting that the current regime can be disputed, since the Convention referred to in paragraph 490 provides publicly that the supervision of public institutions over the financial operations of trade unions must not exceed the obligation to submit periodic reports. As I have already mentioned, it is clear from the paragraph cited that the supervision of public institutions over the financial operations of trade unions must not exceed the obligation to submit periodic reports. However, the Accounting Act provides in the third paragraph of Article 51 that an organisation which is authorised to process and publish data must make the data provided for in the annual reports available to anyone who so requests against the reimbursement of actual costs must also issue to it the rules of the required data. From that point of view, it is so possible to understand that Ipes must allow anyone who wishes to do so to look into the annual reports of trade unions. This means that everyone has access to trade union data and property. This fact also proves that public awareness of trade union data is not the real motive for today's proposed changes to the law. In view of the foregoing, the question raised on the ground is whether the current arrangements are in line with the International Labour Organisation Convention, number 87, as I mentioned earlier. Although I am aware that the sentences, the sentences, their performances are different and that the so-called professional fund has different meanings, it is the world's greatest trade union secret. I cannot help but conclude that trade unions are under pressure on the basis of estimates that they are favoured by the coalition and unfavorable opposition. This is, however, even more difficult to argue today than it was at the time of the first proposal. For, as unions have carried out pressure on government decisions in the past year, they are certainly not in the past term at least in the first year of operation of the Government. And we have to admit that. And the protests continue this year. Understanding the Government's understanding of the plight of the worst-paid workers, I have in mind a decision on the level of minimum wage, and it is already reflected in the boycott of social dialogue by employers. In view of the time and conditions in which we live, these protests are likely inevitable. However, I will be interested to see if any union, like years ago, with posters on the billboards, will support the efforts of the current government. So much for trade unions and political connections. Maybe the unions are disturbed by the competition to invite people to the streets. However, let me point out that the essential difference is whether the unions do so or the political party or its president, who has different options in democratic regulation. Even if, in this case, you are in opposition, you have the opportunity to present your views and better proposals in Parliament. But success is not checked in the street, but in the elections. In the Group of Social Democrats, we see freedom of social integration as one of the most important gains in the fight for labour rights. We do not view trade unions as one of the key partners, as just one of the key partners in social dialogue. In this dialogue, unions represent the weaker side and therefore act on the principle of solidarity. The membership is paid by all members to use it to help a member who needs help. It's solidarity within the unions. From solidarity and numbers, unions draw their strength. Social Democrats and trade unions sometimes disagree. This is seen in union reactions, as well as sometimes in government forecasts of individual measures. This, of course, depends entirely on the content that we are dealing with, but regardless of the differences in positions, we are defending the autonomy and independence of trade unions. The Social Democrats' Group will not support the proposed amendment of the Union Representative Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Proposer, please. Mr. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u86	Just a few brief explanations for making it easier to go forward. As regards problems with social dialogue, even after we discussed at the meeting of the Council of State in the presence of Mr Semilic and representatives of employers, where the key problem was not the lack of will of employers' representatives, that is to say entrepreneurs, for social dialogue, but the fact that some government institutions do not respect what it says about social dialogue in the legal acts of the State of Slovenia. Among other things, at the previous meeting, I pointed out, for example, how the transformation of the electricity economy of Slovenia, where the law provides for the obligation to meet the relevant body - this is therefore an institutionalised social dialogue, in which union representatives, employees - are also involved - before the transformation takes place, because of the fact that the fates of specific people are also decided on, of course, on employees. However, this has not been done for months, until I have asked the question as a Member of Parliament a little while ago. And look at the miracle! Then, in fourteen days, it is the Secretary of State who, at the head of this meeting, convened this meeting, so that at least some start of social dialogue has been established. Very interesting! And because of that, when you say that these things don't run, you first sweep them out of your own doorstep and don't point them at others. On the other hand, in Slovenia, the Constitution, as far as the rights of employees are concerned, is extremely well defined. However, I would remind you that it is precisely because the sentence in Slovenia is also a constitutional category, also the situation of trade unions is slightly different. If the sentence is legal, of course it's not paid by the union. The union therefore plays an extremely important role in the Slovenian constitutional order, not only because of the principles of the Constitution, but also because of the legislation, but also because of the legal practice that has emerged through the development of political culture in Slovenia: it also exercises a certain public interest, it also exercises certain public powers in the broader sense of the word because it participates in institutionalised public dialogue. For this reason, it is also justified to expect the union to do its utmost to maintain this value, which also means greater transparency in its operations. There was earlier talk about European standards. Of course, but most unions in the part where it's not about not knowing what secrets, they publish their business in all countries more or less publicly. In our case, not only does an ordinary citizen, as someone has previously mistakenly said, have problems in wanting anything to do with the operation of the union, even if he assesses whether he would join or not, is there, after all, some interest that is clearly of legal interest, justified to me, but even lower union officials in the Gorenjska area have told me cases where they were unable to obtain data from large trade unions. And they were told, "No, no, this isn't for you, but here only has the narrowest leadership and no one else should even look into it." And it's a union member and even an official who runs a union in a small company! Yeah, well, please, come on! Then something's obviously very wrong. And then it is no wonder that the reputation of trade unions, trust in unions, and that there are various theories that may be true, but probably not, I don't know, but we have heard something in one of the debates before. Then no one should be surprised if also the information officer, ladies and gentlemen, Natasa Pirc Musar, in the National Assembly said: "Here I can give clear and loud support for the public's possession of trade unions. This is a thing where, I must say, we have not received excessively many questions, but something else, on this subject, also unions are legal persons of private law. Once you find that the public interest is so strong, the transparency of trade unions should happen, and I can defend it, the left, even you, if you want it. And here I can publicly and loudly support the initiative to do something about the transparency of trade unions in the Republic of Slovenia." This is a quotation from the magnetogram of the statement of the information officer at the hearing of the report in the National Assembly. So it's a problem that doesn't make sense to run away. Of course, it is a problem that sheds light on how you also deal with questions about who is who and with whom someone is connected. Because the fact is that the situation in Slovenia is also unusual because those who claim to represent the left have virtually all connections with capital bearers. And this creates a strange situation from which they come, in addition to the government policy and the debt that I have been talking about, even the difficulties of trade unions, which the unions are increasingly aware of. As a result, this debate is legitimate, meaningful, as Semolič himself has pointed out, and it would be good to adopt the measures we are proposing. Legal, at least framework, that the operation of trade unions is public and transparent. This increases the degree of confidence and thus makes the greatest possible step to preserve the quality that is certainly one of the foundations of constitutional regulation and also the values that have been preserved all the time since independence. This is also the value of social dialogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Dr. Andrej Črnak Meglič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. One more nice greeting from my colleague and colleague. As has been pointed out several times, we have before us a practically unchanged proposal for a law that we rejected a few months ago. It would therefore be difficult to expect that, in my presentation, I would suggest significantly different arguments than I had already laid them. For reasons of systematicity, I would like to summarize my arguments in four points. First, of course, what is crucial; then, what is the Law on the Representation of Unions. This is a status law, a law that provides exclusively for the acquisition of legal personality and the acquisition of the characteristics of representativeness. The regulation that trade unions have the right to regulate their own operations is already provided for in Article 76 of the Constitution. So if the provisions proposed by the new law's proponents were to be incorporated into the existing law, it would be at least what would have been done in order to actually go beyond the purpose of the law that we have before us. The most controversial is the disclosure of data from trade unions. Like all other civil law persons, trade unions are obliged under the Accounting Act to propose annual reports to Apes. And anyone who wishes to obtain such data, if so much is desired, can obtain such data with a minimum refund. I do not think that these 8 to 10 Euros actually represent a great burden on anyone to the extent that they express serious doubts that the data or the functioning of his organisation is inadequate. This applies, as we said, to trade unions and all other civil law persons. Trade unions are a voluntary organisation in which the person wishing to do so can be a member, and can also voluntarily step down if he no longer expresses confidence in the leadership of the union. The responsibility of trade unions is, of course, primarily the responsibility of their members to comply with rules that they themselves adopt at their own age meetings or at other bodies. The right to freely establish unions means the right for trade unions to determine what suits them most. If the state wants to cut into this self-regulation more thoroughly, this will constitute a violation of a whole range of international documents which my colleagues have already cited, and at the very least a violation of ILO Convention 87, which speaks of trade union freedoms and trade union rights. Why is it such a great desire to put unions in a different position than 22,000 societies, about 500 religious organizations, and other civil rights? All of these are in fact subject to the same rights and, if different regulation of these rights were required, this would be contrary to the second paragraph of Article 15 of the Constitution of Slovenia. I mean, this desire to regulate or intervene in civil society cannot be owned by democratic societies. So what is the real purpose of the bill's proponents, who certainly is not hiding behind the care of a blinded union membership. Is it in some way if I paraphrase the title: Who is afraid of Virginia Wolf, who is afraid of strong unions? Certainly in the bill we have before us, I do not understand the interest in this poor membership. On behalf of whom are they already asking and proposing amendments to the law?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. He won't discuss it. Mr. Anton Urh. He won't discuss it. Mr. Lucky Friend, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. Trade unions are legal entities and are representatives of employment. If that's what I'm saying, then I have to ask myself, how many times has this been really like I'm saying? They closed up big giants and, of course, successful companies, workers stayed on the road, memberships were probably not redistributed to the workers, but it is true that in fact no union of many unions in Slovenia brought an action against a tycoon to ensure to these people who remained literally on the road the right to work, which is a constitutional right. I come from this point of view that workers, as most exploited today, are being exploited by this society as they are, deserve better legal protection. And if trade unions by law are representatives of the labour force, then workers have the right to see how good the safety of the work is and how great this union power is, which is expressed in the vocabulary and also gives some social security to these workers, without all of this being blurry, wrapped in cellophane and accessible to only some. I would remind you of the phrase in England when the Iron Lady knew exactly how much money the unions had. And right up until that day, she was holding them to break them. And that is what the Government knows in this case, and of course the workers do not know what they are going into when individual leaders take them to barricades. I am an advocate of the labour movement, and I am always involved, if possible, in these mass gatherings. But I'll tell you this in comparison: one coffee cost 50 tolars or 70 tolars in 1991, today is 1.20. Not to mention all the other things that have been dramatically impressed in a basket of living costs that has increased to 300% since that period of course. Trade unions should be social rights defenders here and today, if they had good unions, as they do in other countries, when there are eminent lawyers in the unions, including government lawyers competing with trade unions with the government and other institutions that will have better legal support, then today the social situation of workers would be slightly different. The share of profits would also be 100% guaranteed, as is not the case today. Today this right is only for some, for those who can also pay millions of rewards. Speaking of which, today. Of course, it is right to establish transparency, transparency and to ensure, in essence, to anyone who wishes, who also pays to see how much is collected here, whether this money is being spent or whether it is going, as my President has already said, for some of the other benefits of individuals. In this area, I would expect that there would also be a greater fluctuation of personnel, but we cannot influence this to replace these leaders, to get a better job in the union and that the government would get a more serious partner, because by law they are also a representative union partner to the government. And the government needs to talk to representative unions. The way we talk today, we see. With a fig in his pocket, under his desk, and so on. It is a shame to talk today about whether there will be a minimum wage for a worker of 600 euros. It's a shame. The minimum wage today, less than 600 euros, should be 1200 euros if we could talk about a decent life! Of course, that's not what the unions do. None of the representative unions went down to whether managers had justifiably received the prizes paid, or whether, in fact, the company could behave in a way that was negative if it had a negative balance to pay to the management for a good job that it did not. So far, unions have not objected to any supervisory board, but we know that all who sit on the supervisory boards are responsible for their personal property for their bad work in the company or basically for their fraudulent work. And trade unions as labour representatives should be the first to object, pressure the supervisory authorities and claim essentially responsibility from them. Look at the Corsette Fund! I'm not saying how many times we've sold Elan! Some people are enormously rich in this area because they took the so - called property and put it in private wallets. The unions kept their mouths shut. Here I can also mention, of course, without any problems, I also mention Istrabenz, and Mr Bavčar, and Shrot, all of these famous stories that are known in Slovenia. The unions did not react once. Drugs as a good company in Cyprus today are no longer a Slovenian company. We've also closed our kneecaps. Did the unions react? People went on the road. The tobacco plant is gone. Did the unions react? Ztorog, Henkel, Istrabenz is no longer an Istrabenz, is an OMW and could still list. The lithostroma is long gone. Syndicates did not respond accordingly. Because, of course, she is a protector of their interests, and in many cases the Government. Workers are entitled to learn where their money is, how it is spent, and, of course, where it goes. He's gone a lot. The unions have a huge estate and property, so-called former social property, which they carefully preserve for themselves. This is not accessible to workers. But we can say that the law is satisfied and that they go to look at the iPad. But that's not how workers find themselves. However, it would be right to see how strong they are and what social security they have in their professional funds. If the government knows that, the workers should have access every day, every moment. That's why we support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Jerich. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Andrej Magajna.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u92	It's a nice greeting to all in attendance. We will move to the time of 26 February 1993, when the basic law on the representativeness of trade unions has been passed. Why am I mentioning this? I've been to these debates, I've been a unionist in new unions. When these debates took place in 1991, 1992, the question was whether we could even adopt a law regulating the operation of trade unions. The issue of the old, former and new unions was that the state should not interfere with anything. One of the proposals, I remember, from this time on, was that this law would be called the law on the preservation of statutes. That there shouldn't actually be anything in it. That this is such an area where no political factor should affect, including the current authority, but at least by regulation that restricts the autonomy of trade unions. We got the law with 14 articles. It also indicates this atmosphere. What the unions wanted us to do as little as possible to regulate this operation. We received a law containing three chapters or two: Acquisition of legal personality and Acquisition of representativeness. We have found that the issue of the legal personality must be regulated and that not every trade union that is a negotiator, both in relation to employers and to the State, can be any negotiator in this multitude of unions. We have minority unions, small, large, and we need to determine who that representative union is, which is a qualified interlocutor. We have not actually written more than that, and this is also the right starting point. A mistake in these changes is - although I understand the proposaler that he had some sincere intention of actually preventing abuse - that the intention should be to amend this law, which is a kind of union constitution that does not change over the years, except for a few more editorial corrections in 2000, in that only trade unions could be the only qualified entity who would come up with a new proposal that anything should be changed, not from one party, not from other entities. If this law was already intended to be tabled, the agreement of the representative unions should have been obtained earlier. And I would be happy if they tabled this proposal; I do not know how much support this amendment has today. Why I myself believe that this is an intervention in the autonomy of such a sensitive area, despite positive intentions, as I say, that certain abuses that have certainly taken place during these years are prevented. This intervention by the State might be justified in those first years, but not at the point of regulating the operation of trade unions, which must be autonomous - this also concerns the business and management of property - when it comes to the issue of dividing our former - I say 'our' because I was also in the previous trade unionist regime, or in some smaller organisation - the common property. I also remember in 1992 when the first negotiations in the coordination of trade unions were discussed how the common assets, which were somehow inherited by the Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, would be distributed among the new entities. These conversations were excruciating, and they did not actually move anywhere. It was wrong that he actually had only one union with this property, since it should also be distributed proportionally among the new entities; it was finally a common property. We know that in the previous system we were somehow all members of the union already automatically and we were all paying membership fees. These discussions did not move anywhere, and even then I proposed to France Tomšić in this coordination, and I myself proposed that the country should then cut down and distribute this property properly. This could be the only legitimate intervention at that time, as this has proved to be, this assessment is also justified, as it has been for years, decades, that it has finally begun to move on this point. But without wealth, of course, you can't function effectively. This is how I will end this debate. If that intervention were justified at the time, it is not justified, justified today. As I have already said twice, for the third time, I will say that the legitimate concern is that everything that happens in the union, what happens to property, what happens to management, is that everything is right, but longer than the international conventions, which in fact only prescribe the issuance of periodic annual reports, cannot actually go beyond here. However, membership should of course consider, membership should be active not only when invited to a public call, and it responds and goes on to demonstrate, but that it is also active in the party's organs, especially in the supervisory committees and at this point clearing things up. There's nothing wrong with the press writing something about it. This is sometimes a positive incentive for membership to wake up and call its representatives to account for checking the balance sheets. If it happens that the union's leadership hides reports from its membership, it's something very wrong with these cases. There's a battle to be fought here.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Apparently, we're something special like the state. I do not imagine other European parliaments where a political party or government would dare to propose something like this, without immediately, on the same day probably taking the streets of workers and workers and paralyzing the country. If Mr Sarkozy or Mr Berlusconi dared to do so, the answer would probably be a close one. In our case, it is a fugitive practice - the involvement of political parties and politicians also in areas that do not belong to our competences, which mean the real life of civil society and, above all, of working civil society in this case, has become something common, normal, normal practice. And it is no coincidence that this happens between two parties who are in a competitive relationship with trade unions. The first, the one who proposed this law, is a party that would want all the dirty business done by this government so that perhaps the next government they run would have a better chance of controlling society and working. And it sounds a little cynical that this proposal comes from a party that presented a crisis exit programme the previous week, which foresees a substantial reduction of all funds that go and that are important for social transfers, to preserve the minimum social state and also to preserve minimum labour rights. Of course, the neoliberal model offered to us by colleagues of the SDS, based solely on tax cuts, on the reduction, reduction of public funds and wages, such a vision needs or does not need a weak union. Trade unions are currently a non-diggage for many, many employers, many governments, many customers. That's normal. Wherever it is possible to limit the impact of the union, these restrictions are used by politicians, as they make things easier. Then they only talk to one social partner, they're employers with capital, they don't have to negotiate with workers and trade unions. So, their calculations are clear: to make the situation of trade union centres worse, which at the moment represent the masses of workers, and have already proven to be the only civil society organisations that have such mobilising power; thus to undermine their ability to make their recipes, neoliberal recipes, which are not social, which serve primarily on a one-way basis, capital, but not workers, so that, of course, these recipes can take place smoothly. But it's not like that. The society is a complex system where the social partners are often competitive, they are in a dialectic relationship, and everything needs to be taken into account. That's why we have unions and that's why it doesn't happen to us - and I hope it doesn't happen to us - Greece, where when there is no good dialogue between the government, unions and employers, there will be anarchy. And that's exactly what's happening in Greece. Now, whether any of us are interested in losing autonomy by the unions, losing the bargaining power they have and leaving the street to a standstill, someone is probably interested. Another party who today insults the unions and who repeatedly refers to the people, to the workers, and in fact would like to ride this tiger of discontent and cannot do so because today this tiger is not there, but are union organisations that need to be negotiated, which need to be heard, as the government has listened to on the most pressing issue, to the issue of minimum wage. I'm glad the government reacted that way. Of course, this is not enough, it is necessary to implement this decision; it must be implemented in such a way that it does not mean that jobs will be reduced or the economic situation of the country worsened. This is possible only in the constant dialogue with the unions. The attempt to disqualify the criminalisation of some union elections is a constant. We have heard from the President of the largest opposition party already an insult at the expense of some union leaders. He was talking about government elbows. But this is not a rumor that we can develop a normal democratic, social dialectic in this country. The unions are not the lacquers of this government, and that's, I think, proven several times. And if we were just lawyers of the government's interests and interests of our exit reforms, today we would agree to such interference in the union sphere. We'd say, "Yeah, let's get together at meetings where one of us represents the government, the other of the opposition, we don't have any left to stand for workers, let's take advantage of that and let's cut down on the role of trade unions." No, gentlemen. Thank you, no! I will not agree to such a game, nor will our group agree to such a game, recognizing that dialogue and dialectic with trade unions is a very complex process and that it is not necessarily that we fully agree with trade unions. But the fact is, they are an expression of some tendency, of expectations that are legitimate, because they are the expectations of those who do not have 5,000 euros a month. Previously, someone was talking about 8,000 euros in union pay. That's another lie. The salaries of Mr Semilič and other trade unions have been made public and are not the same as some have shown on a flat-rate basis. And this is a way of disqualifying entities that today, by the way, cannot even defend themselves in Parliament. That is why I find this debate rather distasteful, because it is operated with names, it attacks, it complains to some trade unions without having the opportunity to answer it here. But I don't want to and we don't want to be union lawyers, because we don't have that authority. Unions are an autonomous civil society sphere. They represent workers who voluntarily join unions and voluntarily accept statutes and manage them. This is the right of autonomy, which, as has been said, is one of fundamental human rights - trade union rights, the right to self-organise, in order to defend itself against temptations and the demands of capital or policy; policies that are essentially the most serviceable to those spheres that govern society and that are not interested in the strong negotiating position of trade unions. Syndicates are pretty much something. It is clear that it is aimed only at more important trade unions. Such proposals forget those unions, which serve one political option, while it is difficult to say that a larger union headquarters should serve a political option. If that were true, we wouldn't have had so many dissatisfied workers on Prešeren's market recently. While some unions actually operate very similar to American models, as someone described them. Let's say the Slovenian Railways. Who's that union of Slovenian railway workers serving? No! No! Look how many are waiting now, how much bullying is happening there! And they have no opportunity to defend themselves because these unions have always been one political party and one very specific interest. Of course, they protect each other and will not allow true unionism to penetrate their own feud. These are the extreme situations that we should deal with, but not as politicians as representatives of society. Let yourself be engaged by the opposition gentlemen, but your goal is only to reduce and reduce the autonomy of the largest trade unions, those who can truly negotiate with employers and with the country. I think that this government, despite all the problems it has in relation to trade unions, is obliged to listen to unions, without this dialogue there will be no way out of the crisis. The question is not how to satisfy entrepreneurs, businesses, managers, and it seems to me that all the proposals coming from this right half are intended only for this. The key question is how to satisfy workers, how to enable workers and workers to be satisfied, motivated. That is why the debates on participation in profit are, therefore, debates on the social, responsible economy, including on cooperatives, which are extremely effective in other countries and are not necessarily linked to Marxist models, but stem from the old European social tradition, including Christian traditions, and act as the only economic systems that are at present significantly better than liberal models in spite of the crisis. From Baska, from Mondragon co-op, to Finnish cooperatives, to French cooperatives. Sorry we can't help but think about changing the paradigm, changing the model. We are still afraid that solidarity is a communist category, but it is not. Solidarity is necessary. It is in the unions that this debate is taking place, unfortunately not in politics. See, a little web site of the main union centers, see how they work in connection with the European trade union movement and there, I think politicians could learn a lot from me. There's a lot to know right on their websites. And through their websites, you connect with the entire European union network and you will see what that means, during the crisis. In times of crisis, this is the only guarantee that this crisis does not turn into chaos, into chaotic conditions. And if someone wants to remove unions or subordinate them to politicians, we have even heard the intention of a fellow Member or his desire to change union leaders. Someone would like the leaders to be replaced. Please, who are we to express such desires! We leave this to workers and workers who have 600, 700, 500 euros a month. Members, we'd better not get involved in this business, because it's gonna be a shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u96	Respectable. If someone who participates in power obviously does not understand in his speech one fundamental knowledge that the most quality social justice, the most quality social stability, the most quality social right in itself and the job, and that the opening of jobs is the most socially just and in the interest of the State and that this is the basis of the SDS programme, then I would politely ask him not to interpret it, because such a misunderstanding of this fact is something that we should all be concerned about. But one more thing, ladies and gentlemen. If, I quote, "the transparency of capital, the fair collection of taxes and solidarity" is spoken by a party representative who has a perfect example of escaping and hiding capital abroad, and we all know that there are also certain taxes on the head office of a company - where is this solidarity that he was talking about? Then I hope you'll agree that this is at least improbable, but if I'm completely honest, personally, it's also quite funny.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Yuri, we've all understood that this is about you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When there is no argument, Mr Grims finds himself in a constant bullshit lie which the SDS is spreading in relation to another topic that has nothing to do with this topic. By the way, there are some 200, more than 200 employees working and not on the road. But I'm not going to discuss it because it's not my theme. We're talking about union autonomy, about union rights, which, unfortunately, you're always trying to make worse. But at least you won't make it through this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the second, we are faced with a proposal for a law which, under the title, foresees an intervention in a law that would in any way touch on the representativeness of unions. Otherwise, I am sure, given the proposed decision and the views of the members of the groups, that we will reject the law in order to stop the practice of the SDS Group, this law is likely to come to the National Assembly in the third time, although the proposal for a law is very pine, with regard to objectives, purposes, explanations and more. I will not repeat to my colleagues all those arguments that speak about how we cannot interfere with the organisation of a private legal person, which are trade unions. However, I am distancing myself from all the insinuations that have been made today in the context of the debate on the criminalisation of trade unions, about the so-called non-intention of the use of funds, because union members have the right to verify the use of funds within unions and they are also the only ones who have the right to appoint and replace the leadership of trade unions. For this there are provisions, procedures are laid down. Let us see what this marriage brings. I said it was very pine. In the introductory part, it says that the addition of the law proposed by the applicants relates only to the issuance of annual reports by trade unions or to their public publication via the IAPES. This is the case in order to require the public publication of the annual reports, then it is repeated in terms of objectives, in the main solution and in the explanation and in the article they are proposing. They argue that the law has no financial implications for the state budget, that is true, but in the proposed article they impose the cost of publishing annual reports to the Apes, that they must do so to the unions, that is, direct integration or interference with the right of trade unions to have their resources at their disposal, which is unacceptable in my view. Let us take a good look: it is also said that it has not demonstrated the regulation in other legal systems and the adaptability of the regulation of EU law because this cannot be defined by the legal order of the European Union. Would it not, however, be possible for these respected proponents, who would like to teach us about the laws, constitutionality and everything else, to ask themselves why there are some things in European Union legislation and in directives? Perhaps they have already received some explanation from the debate that these are the things regulated by the unions themselves by their internal arrangements. But, look, I think that at least for those who work in the political space and who like to refer to social dialogue, it is to expect that they know that one of the stakeholders in social dialogue works on a whim. And I agree with those sociologists and those political analysts who believe that, in acute economic conditions, the possibility of quality and rapid social bargaining is much more difficult to reach than it has ever been before. Therefore, to boast about how, in the previous term, they have been able to boast of quality social dialogue in the previous term, she is attracted to me for her hair because I have been following this. Last but not least, it was accompanied by a proposal for a law amending the Minimum Wages Act. In 2006, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee also adopted the Minimum Wage Act. Looks like it was about raising minimum wage. However, the real value of the minimum wage fell in 2007. I will also not forget the representatives of the unions, who have convinced us, the opposition Members and Members to support their demands and their calculations, which have even determined for individual categories of employees that the rise in the minimum wage has brought them worse effects than the previous minimum wage. So much for the quality of social dialogue and what should actually be the concern of trade unions. It is not surprising why such a proposal cannot be supported. I would just like not to come to the third such proposal, at the same time also with a request for a general hearing, as it always is, because then I can really ask myself, is the time for marriage proposals that do not bring the right solutions - and this has already been found not to bring the right solutions - it is not a waste of time and then how to accept and trust the continued assurance that the opposition would want to be involved, actively involved in seeking an exit from the current economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u101	Mr. Marian Krizman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The freedom of operation of trade unions resulting from the constitutional provision is based on international instruments which also bind the Republic of Slovenia as a fundamental human right defines trade union freedom, the general declaration of human rights in the Organization of the United Nations and so on and so forth, as the colleague has already talked about before me. But recently, I remember unionists and workers in Luka Koper who were involved in the crane union and, as such, prevented the continuation of the destruction of this large state-owned company, which also "bears golden eggs". Thank God those unions were back then the way they were, and I hope and I'm sure they're also independent today, and no one else, that they stopped the man who put the SDS there and, after they lost the elections, even appointed the minister of traffic in the shadows, and that man's union put aside the cranes as someone who did a lot of damage. We need unions like this everywhere. Unions that care for workers who care for the welfare of the country, and we have such unions in this country. I will never agree that free unions, free of their nature of operation, will call for responsibility, throw away the seeds of evil and say, have high wages and those in these unions have 400 or 500 euros in wages, sooner or later on to the pressure of the SDS party will start to think, "Wait a minute, these continue in the National Assembly saying that trade unions are getting rich that our bosses are rich. What's actually going on here?" And this plan to bring this law to Parliament in the third place will certainly take place, because perhaps it is not the goal of someone now to overthrow, but to introduce the seeds of evil, to create a complete confusion, to disable trade unions and to call people on the streets, as your President Janez Janša said on television at that time: "See you in the polls." That's probably the point. But, dear gentlemen, where is your honesty when you say that you want to help the position and state, the state wagon, as you like to say, get out of the current situation? This law, which you're proposing for the second time, proves the exact opposite of what you're saying. As they have already said before me, but I think it is necessary to say this a hundred times, as you say the same thing a hundred times and you persist and stubbornly insist, and I hope that you will not succeed, so I think it is right to tell you a hundred times: do not break the system that works! If you want to help the government, then help where you can and even when you can. The union that is set up, organised, fully free and has people working in it, paying membership fees, becoming members, having rights to look into documents, to look into financial conditions, to look into business, to vote, to attend meetings, to prepare actions when they try to arrange things in certain companies so that as few people as possible can get on the road. As unemployment increases, unfortunately, and when this country has not only ours, but also a number of other European countries, great problems with recession, read: unemployment and lower production, you get rid of trade unions. Do you know what you're doing? I don't think so. I think it's a unique goal to create confusion, unrest, strife, seed evil, and, as I said, spring on the street to tell the truth about how bad this government is, and it needs to be elected as soon as possible, because you can't get over losing the election. But what Franco Yuri said you might run the next government - you won't! Simple and simple because you're trying to destroy everything that's good! And the unions, whatever they are because of me, the railways, or the buses, or I don't know which, free and a little less free, are as free as they want, and they don't have to talk about their freedom in Parliament. As a policy, we can only support their activities and in the hope that their activities will preserve as many jobs as possible and that employers will achieve good contracts and good starting points for employees, where there are problems, and problems are almost unfortunately everywhere. The offered hand is a fake, the offered hand is a bluff, the offered hand would be accepted when it was honest. This law proves otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor. He won't discuss it. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I must say that everything I wanted to say in order to argue against this law has already been said, and that is why I am simply saying that I cannot support this law, which, in effect, wants to break the current union regime. It is indeed a diversion of attention and of politics, which has no place in this room, and because of this my voice it does not receive this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Sylven Tiny, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. These are private legal persons who are required to submit each year an annual report consisting of a balance sheet, a statement of revenue and expenditure which must be submitted no later than February of the current year. So far, these data have not been public, which is wrong, because the point of this law is that trade unions are public and transparent. Trade unions are financed by members of workers who face low wages with less and less rights. They became only a contractual labour force and a business expense, as dealt with by current owners of companies. Trade unions conceal property data, so that their lack of trust on the part of workers is so great that they have their money, which is supposed to have a whole other purpose than the wealth of trade unions. Of course, these riches are even more pronounced, as reported by the media, among officials who have been reigning for decades as trade unions for life. Surely we can all ask ourselves here whether these people have a permanent mandate and are, regardless of the irregularities reported to them, untouchable. It is increasingly noted that trade unions are an extended deadline for a country that does not meet the expectations of workers. Therefore, it is also right to support the law and to prevent speculation with workers and money and to remove the shadow of doubt from those unions, which work well, transparently, in the spirit of improvement for workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Franz Bogovich won't discuss it. Mr. Dushan Kumer? No, no, no. Bogdan Barovic cannot because there is no more time in the Slovenian National Party. Mag. Borut Saiovic won't discuss it. Franci Kek cancels the debate. Breda Pecan won't discuss it. Guido Kres won't discuss it. Joko Godec won't discuss it. Tadej Slapnik cancels the debate. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you very much. If a person, or if someone were reading a magnetogram of this session, did not know the point of the agenda and did not know the legal text and would listen primarily to the coalition Members, there would be a feeling that something unusual was going on here. It's strange because the speech is about as if we're shutting down the unions. But the truth is completely the opposite. Let me go in the order of things. Look, the unions did come out of so-called sociopolitical organizations that were part of the former system. It is true that many trade unions have been created since 1990, but the main one remains, in fact, still the same as it was, there are no specific changes. What we're proposing is what? We are proposing only one thing; it is the publicity of their assets. Who creates their assets? This property can only be created by those who are their members and no one else. And our proposal is that not only the members, but that the information on their assets has been made public. What was revealed in Gorenje, what was revealed in Mura? Especially in Gorenje - that unions own large assets and that those who are actually members of the union do not know about it at all. And our proposal is only one - that there will be no mistake for the public - to the coalition anyway there will be no help in these matters to make this property public, and nothing else. Let me remind you of one thing. There was a lot of talk this year or last year about bankruptcy awards. It's true, either the president or the president, that we're not talking about bankruptcy managers, but let me draw a parallel. Last year we wouldn't be talking about winning awards to bankruptcy managers if they hadn't become public. Five million euros would have been well paid in 2009, these monetary prizes, and no one would actually know about it. But since we made the property, that is, because we made the bankruptcy prizes in the time of the government of Janez Janša transparent and public, we could talk about it. Not only that! Through the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, through media reporting - it is very clear that we have reached these data through them or have been warned - less than a million euros have been paid. So, 4 million euros was saved. Reason - public publication of the data. So today it's not about any kind of union attack, it's not about any union silence, it's what the coalition, not the opposition wants. Well, after all, having peace before the union is your interest and not the interest of the opposition. However to compare the matter that we are dealing with today, with some demonstrations on the streets and so forth, is irresponsible, insulting and gravely misleading. What was said on our part, or by the President of Janez Janša’s party, is actually within the framework of the law, which we also did in 2004, even then in one of the main Ljubljana markets, we gathered alongside a large crowd of people, and that was nothing special. So why compare this with this law, and why should this law be associated with public conventions? There's no reason for that. But I'm afraid there's no reason why it's a water cannon. You have no reason to fear, you can fear for power, and nothing else, no violent things anyone predicted. Let me remind you again. When considering the information officer - and Mr Kontić as the leader of the main coalition group, of course, I recommend that he read this when he was so vehemently advocating things about the non-transparentness of union assets, once again: the information officer is both left and right in the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice has shown how she agrees with some of the proposals of both the coalition and the opposition. She was relatively impartial, you have to say. And it has made it very clear that the law that we are considering today is extremely supportive. But of course that doesn't sound like a coalition, so once again I ask Mr. Kontic to read it so he can see that it's true. First - class cynicism, however, was spoken today in this room on the subject of this law. To talk about the fact that this government will have to do dirty business and so on - I can even agree, because it only does dirty business here and there. In fact, I can also substantiate this: bankruptcy administrators, lawyers, deleted and so on; caring for lobbyists, those who then also create Slovenians of the Year. But first-class cynicism was expressed by someone, and I almost forgot who that union property was publicly available today. In fact, you're paying 8 or 10 euros, which is anyway, there's no money, it's been said, and you get all this data. See, €8 to €10 is a daily livelihood of four family members who have 400 euros in salaries. These people are paying the membership fee to the union and these people should pay another 8 to 10 euros today, or the resignation - times 3 - is the twelve meals of food, because they have nothing to do with it anyway, so they can look at what the property is. No, it's not. We make this property public. This is the purpose of this law and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. First, I would like to make clear to the parties in the coalition that in their performances here, in the National Assembly, it has been bothering me for quite some time, but still make a difference here between the parties in the opposition. There are three independent and independent political parties in the opposition who are not bound by any treaty and no agreement and the opposition certainly does not call the street, so people on the streets, at least not the Slovenian People's Party. Please, we are right here, and we believe that such problems are not solved in the streets, but here, in this hall. However, as far as this law is concerned, I simply do not understand why such a resistance to the transparency of trade unions. What exactly is the problem? Why are union members - workers and workers, as you said, those who earn €400 to €450, and of these €450, with a heavy heart and a very difficult membership of the union - not supposed to know where the money from their membership goes? Is it not also tennis lessons that guide these unions? Who is protected by this, or what does he want to hide? Freedom of association in unions and their independent operation are certainly not dependent on the confidentiality of financial transactions - or is it? That is why I cannot agree with the Government's opinion, as well as with the opinion of many colleagues and colleagues, that this law violates the constitutional provisions of the European Social Charter of the Council of Europe or that it violates trade union freedoms in any way. Please! I would not, of course, want to meddle in the internal affairs of the Syndicate, because I was never a member of the Syndicate myself, because, unfortunately, as an engineer or as someone with a college education, I never even had my own advocate. This may also make the status of highly educated personnel in Slovenia or, if you want, of the most creative staff in Slovenia as it is. Because, unfortunately, unions primarily do business, and they do, but they should also do for other workers. However, there are cases, as Mr Grims has pointed out, that are examples. Also, unionists or agents came to me, as we call them, and told me that they could not access the data, they could not access the business data. It's sad. Isn't it sad? Apparently, we support that in the National Assembly. It would also be interesting to answer the question, unfortunately he is not here, Comrade Yuri, why there will not be a worker and workers on Slovenian streets after this law is discussed tomorrow. I'd probably get different answers. I have my answer, why not; because we would probably like this transparency to be introduced so that we know what it is. Someone said the system: it works. No, the system, according to my assessment, does not work, not on Slovenian railways, if you like, and it did not work last year in the case of Gorenje, in the case of Mura, in the case of Prevent and so on, when the unions simply cancelled, totally cancelled. Post Festum, of course, today or in those days they are saving their skin with a story about minimum wage, which is absolutely necessary and necessary in order to arrange that perhaps one of the Februarys due to inactive policies in the previous year would not accidentally fall. I believe that if we have to practically strip ourselves completely before the public when it comes to revealing our property, I will not say take it off to the underwear, it would probably be fair and right for the unions to reveal their business to the Slovenian public. And we're not cutting anyone off, but at least to the union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam. [[She won't discuss it.]] Mr. Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I wouldn't go back to history because I've already said something about it. However, this content of this law would be presented in a slightly different light. The unions have about 500,000 members and they all pay membership fees. If each person pays only one euro per month, 6 million euros will be raised per year. That's a lot of money. It's not a small sum, it's a lot of money. How big is it? Let me give you a case. You'll remember one year ago when Pomurka didn't have 30,000 euros so their cooling system could work. And she couldn't even get them from the government. I'm not saying the government should give it to you, but I just want to remind you. The 30,000 euros, which were the reason that then everything that was in the refrigerator started to fail, meant that members of the union were working for a day and a half for 30,000 euros. The company, which has 300 employees, would have earned these 30,000 euros in five months. And I'm sure if the workers knew that only for a five-month union membership could they get the 30,000 euros that would save their stocks to demand it. But, of course, because they didn't have the data, they didn't even know it, they didn't even remember it. With this money, millions of euros a year, someone is in charge. Well, someone owns it, so he's named, he's elected, he's got all the power to do it. It's okay, but it's millions of dollars. And here we can ask ourselves how the masters do it, where the money goes, and so on. Now let me ask myself, and I will address this question to you, what do we, the proponents, want with this law? What do we want? Are we restricting anyone? It's not written anywhere in the law. And we don't mean that. We just want the public and the members to know what kind of money it is when those little money comes together. What a river this is! I said that if everyone paid only one euro a month, it was six million euros a year. Things are still a little different. I know that unions have their own costs, and so on, no one sees anything, at least the proponents don't see it, and I also said that on behalf of the Group of Members. But here's something that doesn't add up. If the members who pay the membership fee want to know how the owners of this money, if they want to see the balance sheet, have to go to Ipes, not to their company or to their union, to Ipes, to pay some amount, I don't know what it is, whether it's Euro8, 10 to get an insight. I hope they can get him. I won't discuss it. Let's just say it's a good thing. But why? Look, when an employee pays his membership fee, they automatically take it away from his salary; he doesn't have to, the union doesn't go to AJPES, and he says, and now we're gonna take that euro for a month, but they take it away from his salary. Right, easy. But why does the worker now have to go to IAPES and pay in order to figure out how he manages this money, which he himself contributes? One small share of the money. Why is that necessary? I don't know, I wonder what's gonna happen to the union less if this balance sheet is public? What is limiting in this regard, given that we have heard a government representative, that we are restricting them, that they should not be restricted? What is the limit here if the information is public? What is the obstacle to their work here? I don't see anything. There's something else I'd like to say. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't call on the streets when we propose this law, we solve it here in Parliament; Parliament is not a street. Here we want to save, but because it's hiding because you know that what's hidden, that's some "fun" there is everything possible, it's also happening, I don't know if I can say this term "street" because the data hasn't been publicly presented and of course it's how money is managed. We're all sensitive here. The ones that have a little bit more, and the ones that have a little less. We are all sensitive to money, as the Slovenian proverb also says that when money stops, friendship stops. And that's true. Let me just remind you, when those unpleasant events were in Mura and probably none of them were in a good mood, it was all of a sudden a surprise when it was discovered that the Mura stock unions had their own company. It's okay! But that was a surprise, because the data in the balance sheets where this union money is given -- they're hiding, maybe that expression isn't real, but they're hidden to the public. You have to pay if you want to see the balance sheet. That was a surprise. Yeah, why does it have to be a surprise? It's no big deal after all! But that's what happened. During a certain period of resolution, the Wall demanded or wanted EUR 5 million from the Government, but could not get it. However, we have found that if every worker pays EUR 1 per month, it amounts to EUR 6 million per year. It just means that with union membership we could raise that money, that's all. I don't think it could be done, but I want to tell you what kind of money this is. When companies are looking for a living for a sum of money, there's no money. I am sure that only union membership could be possible - because something must also be clear, and I also said this on behalf of the Group of Members, when I explained this proposal that in a foreign country where they have been regulated for a long time, this membership money is also used in the case of strikes and so on. That's what they say, to save the company. This case has not happened in Slovenia. Therefore, it is necessary for the public to know where this money is going. For example, in Germany or in England, if there's a strike, we know exactly that this money will be financed because the employer won't pay the strike. This is not the case with us, and it is therefore right that this information is public. Once again, as I am on behalf of the parliamentary group: no one in the SDS accuses unions of working uneconomicly. Then why do you have to hide? It's just, it's incomprehensible! And it is even less understandable that in doing so we owe the proponents so sharp, I don't know, bouts, even insults - completely unnecessary! If everything's okay, and I'm sure it is, why shouldn't the data be public. As noted by colleague Gorenak, the awards of bankruptcy managers were also secret. What the hell is this? Well, there were things that no one approves of. There were some astronomical sums. We got the managers to have too much pay and have to take care of the job and pay every month for the workers, and they all have too much pay, according to some. The bankruptcy managers, who, I don't know, work with us as they do, don't discuss their work, don't have to worry about their wages, but they share 10, 20, 100, 200, 300,000 euros and the courts confirm them overnight! This too has been found - and I think I can say - that there was something illegal or out of order. It is therefore necessary to make this data on union membership public. Once again, we are not restricting anything, we are not hindering anyone at work, just publish what is done in the unions - the balance sheet. They're making a balance sheet. Why don't they publish it? What's the hindrance here? Nothing. Let me read again what many already know, not everyone, what happened on the Committee on Internal Policy, the second extension of the 7th session, on December 3rd, when the Commissioner Mrs Natasha Pirc Musar said: "Maybe one more thing. Here I can now clearly and loudly give you the support you gave from your party to make available to the public the assets of the unions." This is a matter for which we have not received excessively many questions, but something already on this subject. Trade unions are also legal persons of private law. If and when you find that the public interest is so strong that the operation of trade unions should happen, and I can defend it, left to you, too, if you want, and here I can publicly and loudly support the initiative to do something about the transparency of trade unions in the Republic of Slovenia. This is said not to be true, as you say, that the data must be hidden and we refer to what European and global conventions and conventions of the United Nations that this must be secret. That's not true. The Commissioner also said that there was no need for that. She said she didn't have to, too. And once again, by publishing the balance sheet, we will not interfere with anyone in any way, or change, or demand that he do otherwise. He can only do what he does and make a balance sheet public. That's all we're asking. Of course, I support this law to continue the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u113	Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you very much for your word. Good-bye to all of you. Well, this law amending the union law, which would allow the union property to become public, is indeed not the law in the package of anti-crisis measures, as was previously stated in the position of one of the parliamentary groups. If I were to be assessed as such, then we would propose it in that package and then we could also discuss these anti-crisis issues, of course, if the coalition would allow sufficient time to be available both to the proposer of the point and to the discussers. However, this is a law that we believe is needed primarily because the public is the best tool, that some things are going legally, that some things are happening responsibly. We do not have any problems with the public of property, not of our own and not of that which is created in these public institutions, nor of that which is acquired by someone on the basis of some kind of public authority in the exercise of public authority! If the balance sheets of trade unions were public, if they were transparent, if they were transparent, if they were made publicly available, this would not affect in any way or the deterioration of the quality of the fight for workers' rights, in order to improve the situation of workers. Nothing, but the other way around. If this were public, then perhaps union leaders would put themselves in another way in the battle for trade union rights, for a better position of workers, for the protection of workers and so on. But because this is not public, because it becomes and remains part of the union's assets and operations accessible only to those dedicated, it is not necessary to do so. That is why we have experienced in a number of important Slovenian companies with a good brand that people passed the union took rights into their own hands and fought for their own rights. Alone. Nor does it need to be a secret where union leaders have their physical assets scattered, not only their financial assets, but also their physical assets. Where are the resorts? Where are the holiday homes? Maybe it wouldn't be a secret if you asked someone where and who those using these objects are. That is why I think that if we want to raise the level of transparency in Slovenian society, if we want to raise confidence in those whose work must be public under law, as in those who exercise public authority, it would be right for their business under law to be public. And there should be no obstacle that such a law, such novelties as is now proposed, would not be supported. There should be no obstacle if the interest is genuine that things are transparent and that things are accessible. However, many, as I see in these debates, have no sincere interest in making things transparent, presented, accessible to know how much of this property is, where this property is, how it is managed. It is clear from these discussions that there is no such interest. Unfortunately, I see that neither does the recommendation of those institutions in this country that are actually meant to decide what is and what is needed, what is public, what is meaningful, what is public and what is not. The Information Officer is already such an institution as the Prime Minister of the Government said yesterday, it can be an institution of "par exclusion" in these cases. However, this "par exclusion" opinion, expressed in the National Assembly on the Internal Policy Committee, is disregarded and ignored. It's getting past him. Perhaps it should be asked that a "par exellation" institution is also not taken into account where we put it, in some other position, or otherwise operate with it. It is a pity that such an explicit, obviously public opinion is not taken into account. We also received a decision yesterday from an information officer, which decided that the Government had unduly decided that a document which had absolutely nothing in it had a code of confidentiality, but was not heard, had not been adopted. When we proposed to suspend the debate at that point in the agenda in order to obtain an information officer's decision. There was no interest. And I wonder how we will act now that such a decision has come. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] In these cases, when it comes to the publicity of this property, we may find ourselves in a very similar situation. [[...]] It could be very similar to ours. Sooner or later, something will have to be done in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u115	Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. While in the introduction, in the opinion of the Group of Members and the definition of the Group of Members to this proposal, I have expressed such views as I have. It is, of course, welcome if anyone honestly thinks that by means of this law they can contribute to making trade unions stronger, that they will be more free, that even those who are not members of the trade union today will be able to enter the union and so on. Of course, this is not the purpose of the bill's proponents. The aim of the law's proponents is that the National Assembly has been engaged for the second time in half a year in a law that is likely to make a major contribution to Slovenia's exit from the crisis in which it is located. At the same time in the same breath, you point out that the measures are not that the National Assembly deals with everything else, except that the Government is late for workers to lose jobs. However, you are proposing laws that are not nearly helping the National Assembly to deal with matters that are more important at this time. I'll tell you again, personally now, that the intervention in this law shows a complete lack of knowledge of the law on the representativeness of trade unions. The law on the representativeness of trade unions refers to the characteristics of the legal person, his acquisition, and the acquisition of the characteristics of representativeness. The union's organisation leaves the union. The union shall be organised as members and members wish. No one of these members and members makes them members of the union. All those in the union are probably in it because they feel the need to unite at a key point in the purpose of association, this is the effort for labour rights, for the rights that somehow stem from work. And when we say that union membership is free, that means that those who are members of the unions, too, accept the statutes, decide how they will work, determine the structure of organisation. And within this organization, they also have control during the operations of their union. And the members and members of the union certainly have the right to have an insight into the operation of their union, in which they are voluntary members. And if they're not happy with him, they have more options. One of them, the extreme one, is that they are no longer members of an organization with which they are not satisfied. I'll say it again. In the Social Democrats, we are betting on social dialogue, despite all the concerns you have and all the comments and all the reasons why social dialogue is as it is. The unions in this social dialogue represent a weaker side, a weaker member in these negotiations, and we want strong autonomous unions. And when you sometimes talk about political affiliation or connection, once again, I remind you that you are very careful about this and, as a colleague has already said before me, you take the broom and sweep before your threshold, believe me, you have quite a bit to do with it. And given that we have already stated our views twice, given what is happening, I rightly expect that we will have to say it a third time in a few months. For I hope that this law will not be adopted today, as it was not the first time, and that in this way we will ensure the autonomy and freedom of operation of the union. And as I said in the introduction, maybe there's only a little honesty in this part of talking about competitiveness, not just connectivity, that's the part where we want people on the streets, but when a union, respected colleagues and colleagues do it, that's something completely different than when the president of the most powerful opposition party in Parliament does it. However, you may be afraid of this competitiveness and want to put the unions primarily under pressure and somehow deprive them of the opportunity they actually have to empty the space you want to occupy. That's how I explain your president's announcement.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u117	The text is also given by the proposer, Mr Mag. Branko Grimes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u118	First, a few answers, because they are extremely amusing and I am sure that the media will be happy to publish them. First. Four times today, even now quite in the end, SD has made a mockery at the expense of that simple call to meet in the streets and markets by Mr Janez Janša. Since this client has this, and this is the first phenomenon that I'm not going to talk about, obviously some medical phenomenon, this is amnesia, I would remind you of who first pronounced this sentence. You can check, he was on TV, I saw him with my own eyes. Exactly this sentence, an invitation to a meeting in the markets and streets of Slovenian cities, was issued by Mr Borut Pahor in the spring of 2008 or the end of the winter of 2008, when he called for these meetings, which you had as an election campaign, before an official election campaign on Slovenian streets and markets. And you won't believe it, then you're the same point that you're shaving the lunatic out of those words today, saying hello, look, the client's coming to the people. When exactly the same sentence is said by Mr. Janez Janš, you make a fool of yourself. On the one hand, amnesia, on the other hand, you will recognize the political culture of the dog. Well, let's move on. Slovenia can't get over it - you tried to make fun of yourself again or that the Slovenian Democratic Party - can't get over defeat in elections. Oh, a little amnesia again! In spite of the defeat of the elections, the last elections were the SD, because the winner of the European elections, which were general, secret, periodic elections, namely democratic elections, was the SDS. This will now be formally seen, because the SDS will have the largest number of Members from Slovenia in the European Parliament among all Slovenian parties, which will be good for Slovenia, it is also about strengthening the European People's Party, which is the strongest political force in the European Parliament and will also put things in the right place. If someone can't get over something, you really are a little sick after all the polls, but it's not really a problem, because a strict customer's view isn't such a problem in itself, the problem is what it means for Slovenia. And, ladies and gentlemen, Slovenia really can't get over the fact that you're back on the run with that election scam. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u119	Mr. Mag. Grims. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u120	I'm just answering. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u121	No, but can I please give my opinion? Mr. Mag. Brims [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u122	If you allowed the basic words [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u123	Mr. Mag. Grims, please, if you'll allow me a word as chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u124	have now been pronounced, wounds [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u125	Can I say my word as chairman?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u126	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u127	You've really gone a few ways, and I have to remind you to say anything, but don't talk about the title of what we're talking about. And let me read again, this is a proposal for a law to supplement the law on the representation of trade unions. Please limit yourself to this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u128	I will come to the point of the story, Mr President. Look what the problem is. Slovenia can't get over that you're back in power before those tight ties of yours, together, grew with capital. This growth of the political transition left with capital is a sociological phenomenon, Slovenia, which by the way is not only Slovenian, but is considered an entire Eastern bloc. But the problem is also that this duality is in relation to unions and employees, which has also proved to be true today in your rejection of this law. And in that, Mr President - that's why I made this introduction - is the core of the story. I fully understand that you refuse to make trade unions transparent. It is interesting, however, when I also had the opportunity to speak with Mr Semolic in the State Council, that he has much less concerns about how this problem sort of settles than you do at this time. And I also understand why - because of your involvement, your growth, your shooting with Slovenian tycoons or capital. And then, on the one hand, you have a full mouth of unions and a positive attitude towards unions, unionism, you act as their defenders, and on the other hand, you defend the interests of capital in concrete decisions. And then this is also seen at the symbolic level, because, for example, there are also some articles in the constitution that speak of social, trade unions, among them also Article 67, which expressly states that property must be regulated by law both in terms of acquisition and enjoyment, that, in addition to economic and environmental functions, its social function is also ensured. And the author of this provision, the one who insisted that this came into the Slovenian Constitution, is Dr. Jože Pučnik. I am therefore not surprised that the SD is now taking action to withdraw the name of Dr Jožet Pučnik from Slovenia's largest airport. It's clear to the tycoon that this thorn is in the heel. And that's really what this is about, at a symbolic level, but it's still relevant to the problem that we're dealing with today. What was rather embarrassing on your part is, when you said a few times, "SD distances itself from insinuating the business of unions." Yeah, but why were these insinuations - they weren't on our side, some other party actually said something - they were even said. Why they could also have appeared in the media, as that party from the media also summarized them. How much you trust the media, but it's another question. They showed up because this business was not transparent. And this burdens the attitude of employment towards unions, on the other hand, the work of the union is weaker because people turn their backs, the employees turn their backs on them, it is clear, it is evident, and on the other hand they are also a less credible, less powerful partner in negotiations with the government. But maybe that's really your goal, and that's why you're so vehemently opposed to it, much more than the unions themselves. Once again, Mr Semolič said at the meeting of the Council of State himself that he considered the topic relevant, that it was important, that it was good, that it had opened. He also stressed that in the previous mandate, social dialogue was better and significantly more ongoing than in this mandate. I cited the case when it came to the question of the transformation of electricity, where it is evident that government non-interest has not led to the realization of even institutionalised social dialogue, which stems from the existing legal regime. What do you want me to say?Oh, my God! God protects us from such union guards as you are in such a case, when the difference between words and actions is so obvious. And so once again, I'm not surprised that you're so opposed to this law right now. Making fun of this law, czech, yes, what it does to get out of the economic crisis. Maintaining social dialogue, which is a value that is also partly institutionalised in Slovenian legal order, is in the public interest, is in the interest of greater quality of life, ladies and gentlemen. And even in a time of crisis, and especially in a time of crisis, if you want. And it is therefore endlessly more in terms of a positive exit from the crisis, preserving the quality of life, as was your multi-day and yesterday, hours and hours of torment with the resolution of Mr Erjavac. This is indeed something that has done nothing to solve the crisis and not to improve the quality of life. But that's how you work while you close your eyes to the problem that's here and is transparent. Speaking of this law, it should be stressed that the union has a special role to play in Slovenia. It is, once again, institutionalised, it comes from even some articles of the Constitution and is also regulated by legislation. Therefore, in the broader sense, the union participates not only in achieving public interest, but also in carrying out things of public interest. As a result, it is certainly legal and legitimate to regulate the duty to present that basic business to the public in law. This right is certainly presented by the legislator. Nor would we be European refugees, far from what some of you have said. Five European countries have this explicitly regulated in their legislation as the duty of trade unions. That is said, there is no single European regime here. In most other countries, where this is not explicitly regulated in law, this is a principle that the union itself respects. But what about this in Slovenia, you also confirmed yourself in the debates and just confirmed what we put at the SDS in the starting point. There are cases where even union officials at a lower level, such as union leaders in a smaller company, cannot get the data where their money is actually going. Where's the transparency of business? There's no way the union can get that inside. There's something wrong here. And then no wonder if the level of trust is declining and if such insinuations arise, from which, as you said, you want to distance yourself. It's transparency. We all know that saying: Clean accounts, good friends. If he's paying a union membership fee, he sure wants to know what's going on with it. And if someone is thinking about whether it makes sense to join the union, and perhaps it would be in the public interest, already because of these rights and duties, which are regulated in the Slovenian legal order, that unions exist, that they are strong, of course they should also have access to at least some basic message about how and what happens to the money that gets the union from these memberships. To compare this with regulation in some other countries, where all unions pay all sentences in full, it makes no sense, I stressed this earlier because in Slovenia the sentence is a constitutional category. Right to an item is a constitutional category. It is not fair at all to restrict it in relation to certain articles of the Constitution, except when it comes to those institutions which must act so that the company can function normally, but this is indeed an exception to the fact that the company can function normally. But that's really an exception to the exception. That's not where the union pays for a sentence like that. A bet that runs according to existing legislation, we all know, goes to the costs of the employer, not the union. Workers have the same right to pay back. For this reason, what we are proposing is even more justified. This can also not be compared directly with other arrangements in comparable countries. Social dialogue on its own, despite the fact that there has been quite a bit of laughter on the other hand, when I mentioned it, is a quality that existed in Slovenia, is a quality that has been maintained regardless of authority, and is a quality that has been strengthened, with all responsibility, at a time when Slovenia was led by the first democratically elected government and led by Demos, under the leadership of Dr. Jožet Pučnik. It is not the case that the Slovenian Constitution mentions in several articles the social function of property, the role of trade unions, the right to trade union association. These were the requirements that Dr. Jože Pučnik was fully and consistently defending. I can tell you this firsthand, because I have just participated in that group, which has also prepared and taken account of some of these comments. And what I read earlier about the social function of property, which I believe is a thorn in the fifth existing Slovenian tycoon, was right to propose and to insist on it to the end by Dr. Jože Pučnik himself, because he took it from experience in Germany, who knows a similar solution in his constitution. That is also why this is one reason for an appropriate attitude toward him, by the way. So I can get back to the union issue. The question that emerged as a rhetorical clue was: What about freedom of union membership? Look, we're talking about a law that you yourself said was a status law defines the right under which a union acquires the right of status, that it is a representative union. And it is perfectly normal, even legally infallible, if you want, that such a law also defines the rights and duties arising from this status. This is in no way contrary to this solution. And interesting. When the Government rejected this proposal, now in second place, it explicitly stated that the Government is in agreement with the proposaler's claim that the bill has no financial implications for the state budget. I quote: "For the preparation or adaptation of the relevant application and the implementation of the public publication, Apes would need certain budgetary resources." Please, this is a completely negligible asset from the point of view of public finances. It is information that is being collected, which is being processed, that is to say, it is only to be organised and presented to the public in the appropriate form. After all, something can be done publicly also by publishing on the website, which is cost-effective then really completely negligible. This is particularly the case when the government's message ends as a key argument. The same government, ladies and gentlemen, has now written in the deleted law, comparing that it has no financial implications for the public budget. It will be necessary to issue decisions, to enforce procedural decisions at administrative level at several instances, when judicial proceedings will have to be held when compensations, which the proposer himself at the end, are to be paid, that is to say, the ministry representative is no longer hoping to be completely excluded at the meeting. On top of all this, it interferes with other rights of certain other cash registers, which are also financed from public funds for back-up, where those funds may still significantly exceed all possible compensations. In short, massive assets, and the government deadlocked, "no financial consequences". But when we only propose that something that is collected and processed should be made available to the public, this is rejected by the same government with a sudden feeling that this has implications for public finances. Please! So much for our side. But let me finally express my expectation. Now the National Assembly has dealt with this twice. He discussed a topic that is important, which addresses not only trade union issues, but also, in particular, value issues, because social dialogue is a value building part of Slovenian political culture and constitutional and legal regulation. And it's about keeping it. If the current process of decomposition, trust in unions due to various insinuations, which may be justified, some may not, then it can only be someone who has actual insight into data, then it will be bad for the whole country, because the unions will be weaker, they will not fully perform their functions, and it can therefore happen that it will be for certain layers or final stages even for all reduced quality of life. That is what we are really talking about today, and that is why this topic is still very relevant. Especially because of the difficult economic circumstances in which we were pushed by the incompetence of the current coalition. For a while, this story can continue to be followed up by the realization of the Yugoslavia, when in one year more than half of the entire Yugoslav former debt is owed to this poor country and its citizens and citizens, what this current ruling coalition has done, but, sooner or later, the bill for this Balkan spa will come and be paid by the Slovenian economy, it will be paid by Slovenian employment. And then we will also need strong unions to defend the interests of employees, to preserve the quality of life, to preserve the rights of employees and to preserve the values on which this country was built and in which it deviated positively from, if you will, many other countries of the European Community. For this reason, we would expect support from those who speak of social democracy. As a result, we would expect the support of those who speak of being on the side of the unions. In fact, by making their business more transparent, as in some way you are opposed to this transparency than the unions themselves, you are defending the interest of capital. It's really the core of this story. Because the only thing that is unimaginable here is the core of your existence and your actions with the interests of capital. And because of this, it is not in the interests of the present - day rulers at all to have strong and strong unions. It is in their interest to perform some kind of performance when it comes to dancing on the beats of international or Russian bandits, but of course there are no banners, "give us jobs" or "repent", because it would be a key message and we need such unions. And we need trade unions to ensure that fundamental social rights are realized. This is the right to work, to work. Nothing else gives the quality of life and the quality of living to all people in Slovenia, says all Slovenes and Slovenes, citizens and citizens, residents and residents, such as quality, good jobs, which enable the economy to be driven to the full, to live and to receive social rights from the workplace, but not from charity for the unemployed, as it is now, with some crazy debt to which the account will come. And when that bill comes in, we're all gonna get a headache. Let us not forget that a community that we belonged to experienced its irrevocable end at the time of this account. Slovenia certainly deserves to be treated with responsibility and to preserve on the one hand the quality of life and, on the other hand, the values of the next generations. This is also an invitation to the ruling coalition to stop continuing the Yugoslav scenario and to stop spending money for generations to come.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u129	All the applicants you wanted the word, you got the word. And since the time set for the debate has not yet run out, I ask you whether anyone else wishes to discuss it on the basis of Article 71, paragraph 1. I see a lot of raised hands, so I'm gonna open up the application. Check-in is on. Eight panellists have been reported. To be very precise, each of the discussers has 2 minutes and 30 seconds. Here you go, Mr. Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you, Chairman. We'll all be short, we'll have to be big-time. Mr Grimes gave one such debate that did not convince us. It did not convince us, nor the unions, nor the workers or the workers, probably because it is clear that the purpose of their proposal is primarily to limit the autonomy of trade unions. And something obvious in all these discussions was not clear to the applicants. That we're not talking about public money. We're talking union money. We are not dealing with one state institution where it is right to demand what the applicants require. But we're talking about a membership that workers themselves and voluntarily pay the union. And within that they have rules, they have statutes and they manage themselves independently, without involving Mr Grimes. I understand that he would want to hold his hand over society, the country, over the workers. But you can't do that, Mr. Grimes. Deal with it! We're in democracy. Democracy also assumes the independence of trade unions. We're in a social state and the union has the right to operate without your interference. You're not competent for that. And I understand your desire to force this government to do some dirty work that would then serve you in the future. But this government won't do it, at least this coalition won't accept it. You would destroy the unions, destroy the lefties, all those who are useless to you. But we can't, you know, still live in democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u131	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Much has been said, some things are like bob against the wall, but a comparative or symbolic presentation is significantly more effective, is more adopted, is more understandable, and many then change their minds. And I'm gonna use that angle for two minutes. I have already said that in Slovenia about 500 thousand members are organised through unions. And if everyone pays 1 euro a month, it's 6 million a year. That's not a small amount. And what do we want the proponents to do with this change of law? Nothing but publicizing how these 6 million masters are being used, how they are being used, and how those who pay these 6 million know without having to pay for them have insight into this spending. With this, we limit no one, no one, and no one else's rights, we even give no rights, we do not interfere. And I would like to stress in particular that we do not hold hands over anyone. Just the opposite. We would like these hands to move away, we do not want to hold hands over the unions, and we also believe that it is right that others do not hold hands with them. You don't have the right to hold hands with the unions either. And that's what this is all about. And your arguments, that's why they're on their toes, if we can even say that's an argument. We want with this amendment to the law that those who pay the membership fee can see the balance of management with these millions and that they do not have to pay for it. However, workers who are members of the union pay membership fees to be represented by trade unions in front of the employer. And whoever it is. It doesn't matter whether it's a country or they're independent entrepreneurs or anyone else. And workers expect their representation to be effective. Therefore, we want the management of these funds to be transparent. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] transparent. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u134	I'll be right with you. But it would be interesting to do an independent public opinion survey, and I'm sure the union members would say, [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you very much, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u136	they're for the public. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u137	Petan. [[...]] Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u138	Dear President! In opening, I must say that what I heard in Parliament today, the debates of certain fellow Members and members of the coalition went through every measure of good taste. I must tell you that half of these people have not read the law at all, and practically half of their debate has wasted on total demagogy, complete deception and many lies. Among them is Mr. Zares, who laughs so sympathetically at me, who speaks complete nonsense, what he has been saying in Parliament today. Better go read the marriage and read what it says in this marriage. Ladies and gentlemen, this is precisely why I think it is extremely important that I reiterate my concern for the entire Slovenian public and to say what is the aim and intent of this proposed law. The purpose and intent of this law is that those who create union property, these are workers, members of this union, know what happens to their property and how their leadership has this created property. This is the intention of the proposed law. In this law is not written anywhere, anywhere mentioned that the Slovenian Democratic Party wants to disband unions, to work and to try in every way to evaluate and destroy trade unions in this Slovenia. This is the greatest absurdity I have ever heard in this House. And it's from people who were publicists and I don't know what else. And these people would like to make a demagogological explanation in this House of what is the intention of this law. So it means something that they want to deceive the Slovenian public. This is the worst that Members of the National Assembly can do. This is not their job and not their duty and has nothing to do with this bill. These dear colleagues mentioned employment problems, unemployed workers and so on. They did not say, however, that this government, which is now in power, has done everything in order to ensure that countries go strictly and very clearly in all parameters, macros and micros, into a pit where there is little chance that it will be able to get away with it. You, colleagues and colleagues from SD, Zares and LDS members, would rather not make sure that this country does not live at the bottom of this country, that people will not live from 450 euros in wages, but that trade unions will care that workers would not have 450 euros in real trades, but that they would have 700 or 800 euros. That's the union's job.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. The word is "ma'am mag." Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Today it was really possible to hear a lot of things, in most of what does not fall under the law on the representativeness of unions. But since our colleagues in the SDS are so fond of teaching us about law, let me point out that their proposal has a law that covers only one article, according to my two fundamental mistakes. One thing I have already pointed out is that the law imposes on trade unions that are legal persons of private law what they have to pay from their means. Secondly, it is clear in this Article in the third paragraph that the annual reports of trade unions must be made public. It's a strange thing. However, as regards the position of the information officer on public data availability, it is necessary to see in the context and read everything. When fellow Member Petan quoted from the magnetogram, he read, I don't know if it happened to him on purpose or how, the part where the Commissioner said, if and when the public interest would be so strong that the data would be public, but it is possible to do so. There was a lot of talk about what unions should do. I was glad to hear it when it was said that solidarity was not essential to trade unions. But it is on solidarity that the work of the unions is based and that the unions should defend the right to work. Yes, in some past times we had the right to work even in the Constitution, and we did with those times. I was once a member of the union myself, including the one who brought together the highly educated, but it is interesting that they have the most to say about the unions who say they were never members of the union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u141	Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me first make it very clear that I will certainly not support the proposal for a law on the representativeness of trade unions for a number of reasons. It's almost hard to say that this proposal is a law, a law. Although this is happening again, I think it was quite clear from the debate why and how, because it is not really about some new worker's rights and freedom of operation of trade unions, but actually for one very small segment. I will not support them because they have also declared to our parliamentary group, and not only to ours, but also to others, that they do not support this law. What has been falsely stated is that the largest union, and also Mr Semilič, supports this law. That's not true. And that's a lie, and even the Free Trade Unions don't support it. I'm not gonna let him manipulate himself like that. This marriage is just what it is for me. Why is it so written and why the opposition, which could go along with all the possible ideas that it has already realised, why has it not, say, done so, how and how to strengthen the unions, because we know that unions are strong and protect the rights of workers only when they are united, when they are strong and when they perform together. It would also be, for example, if we were actually for some working rights, for these working rights to be realized in an articulated way through social dialogue through articulation of public interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u144	It is interesting how some in this debate, which I have had the opportunity to listen to for several hours, justify their proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Representation of Unions in a way that is by no means unique to their behaviour, not only in the past year but in the past years. From the people who have given the capital the opportunity to have a much lower tax rate on corporate income, from the people who have reduced the rate of taxation for the most wealthy or the people with the highest income, from the people who have allowed the capital to not have the obligation to include workers in the sharing of profits, we now hear that they are the ones who protect workers' rights, that they are the ones who give workers the opportunity to exercise their rights. Of these, we suddenly hear how their desire and desire has always been to make the minimum wage of 500, 600, 700, 800 euros. All of a sudden, strange and strange, we hear statements, saying, "people, wake up, we're your protectors, we're your guardians." And in such a way that the unions should publish their business in the past business years. I must say, if this tool would allow working crowds in Slovenia to live better and be more equal to capital, then I would immediately vote in favour of such a law. Unfortunately, however, this is no way for workers to exercise their rights. That is why, of course, I will not support such a marriage because it is all one farce and seduction.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u145	Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! I agree because some of you tell us that this law destroys the union and calls them to account. From this proposal, to make public the information on the property and the business of trade unions, I do not see them destroying trade unions in this way. If things are right and everything is as it should be and as workers, members of the unions, expect their leadership, then probably there is no problem to publish this thing publicly, as many other information can be made public. And a while ago, we found out that the Mutual donated to the unions, for example. It is likely that employees are interested in what they have received or what the management has agreed with each other and what the Mutual expects of the unions. This is one example, and there are many more. That is why we can rightly doubt and wonder where this money is actually going. And a very Pilateic government washes its hands if it says, "Everyone can get that information." Of course, but he has to go to IAPES and ask for information because he finds out that his union trustee or anyone else is not already providing him with this information. And we also have contacts with unionists and with unionists, leadership and somewhere there are actually problems, only a stronger leadership knows about the salaries of union leaders and so on. To all those ordinary members who pay only membership fees, many things do not even come up in the reports they submit at meetings and so on. That's why I think we're saying that we're destroying unions because we're proposing that they publish public information on property and their business, too badly. It has already been quoted as saying what the information officer said. My colleague Mrs Majda Potrata quoted one part, but she also said at this same meeting: "And here I can publicly and openly support the initiative to do something about the transparency of trade unions in Slovenia."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u147	Mr. Magg has the word. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u148	The bill to make trade unions more transparent and partly public is legal and legitimate, as trade unions operate in the public interest and, in the broadest sense, they also exercise public interest. I would remind you that the social dialogue is also recorded in some legal acts, is based on the Slovenian Constitution itself and is at least partially institutionalised in the Slovenian legal order. For this reason, it should be noted in particular that the situation is changing, that the union is strengthened by the knowledge that the drink of joy in the Balkan spa, carried out by the ruling coalition and in which it has in a year entrusted Slovenia more than half of what the whole of Yugoslavia has been in debt and has fallen apart because of this, only in a year, that this drink will have to be paid and paid by the Slovenian economy and Slovenian employees. And the first way to help them build confidence in trade unions is to confirm today this law, which is in the public interest and is also in the interest of maintaining social dialogue as values. Politics should always be based on values. That's what every political textbook teaches. And I would like to see this fact respected several times in the National Assembly. Social dialogue is a value embedded in the Constitution itself and has also been incorporated in the past, unfortunately, even as Mr Semilic, the President of the largest trade union centre, has said, much more successfully in social dialogue in the past than in the current mandate, when much is said about social dialogue and social justice, and in practice, it is primarily about the interests of capital that Slovenia is in charge of overcoming these social hardships. For this reason, I also hope that journalists will not only write about the affairs that the ongoing coalition launches into the public and from which only the biological phenomenon of Slovenia is understood to be red with us, but that it will also write about these things, the issue of values, the problem of debt, the problem of the future of Slovenia of all Slovenes and Slovenes, Slovenian citizens and citizens, because of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u149	I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the public use of Slovenia under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Majda Shirca, Minister of Culture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u150	Your Honor, hello! In the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian, which we have tabled in order to remedy the irregularities of the past with amendments. We abolish the legacy of the predecessors, who in 2007 instead of interfering with the law itself, the law on the public use of Slovenian, rather adopted a regulation on the implementation of the two articles of this law. It's probably because it's actually a sensitive topic, but whatever. There is a risk that this non-consistency will be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities and that the law will need to be amended with additional amendments. The Novela talks about the need for public advertising of products in Slovenian, the alternative option, the one you read or can understand in the consumer, giving an opportunity to explain in foreign languages. We have heard or listened to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the parent committee and have improved paragraphs 2 and 3. With the support of the amendments, the changes have somehow brought closer to the dictatorship we know from the Consumer Protection Act, which deals with a related problem. This is not a different subject matter, but rather a better text or a meaningful improvement, a better order of texts. At the general hearing in the National Assembly, you supported the amendment by a majority. I would like to add another personal vision to this bill. A bill for which I received an initiative to be made on a government working calendar, if I may say so, was submitted by the former president of the sector for the Slovenian language, Mr Dular, before he retired. It was already ready last year, the Slovenian language sector has drafted the bill, but due to numerous doubts and the desire to remove all doubts, we have had many discussions, or perhaps this change in the law would have hurt or possibly brought some misunderstanding of the Slovenian language defence in our country. We said whether we were going forward with him, or whether we were waiting for the European Court of Justice to be engulfed in any problem that might result from such irregularity, because the rules governing something other than law could happen and if someone might turn to the court. After the talks, which were very numerous at the Ministry of Culture, for which we had taken a long time, it was clear clearly that change was necessary. However, in order not to have any doubts here in the National Assembly, the explanation for the law is very extensive, very precise, and anyone who deals with this article or any other article would already have sufficient material in his explanation to possibly resolve a question. However, I suggest that in the next debate you take into account the fact that we already have the Consumer Protection Act, that we already have a regulation already adopted there, that we have a rule that my predecessor adopted in 2007 that he did not intervene in the law, and that we should do what has not been done in the past. And as I understand from the full debate at the meeting of the Committee on the Culture of the National Assembly, you will also do so with sensitivity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I give my word to the president, Madam Mag. Majdi Potrat, for presentation of the committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 13th meeting on 13 January this year, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a regular procedure. A general discussion was held on the draft law and it was decided at its 11th session on 19 November 2009 that the draft law was suitable for further consideration. The Legislative and Legal Service has commented on Articles 1, 2 and 3. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported the bill in its opinion. It considered that it should be clearly stated in the amendment of the law that for the public advertising of products, Slovenian is the first place and that it provided for "an easily understandable language" only a version giving economic operators the option to use it as an alternative. It also expressed concerns about the blind implementation of the partial decisions of individual institutions of the European Community. The oral opinion was presented by Dr Zoltan Jan. The amendments have been tabled by the four coalition parties' groups to Articles 2 and 3. In accordance with Articles 126 and 131 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth held a debate and a vote on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled. Representatives of the proposer, representative of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts, representative of the Slovenian Department of Slovenian Studies at the Faculty of Philosophy of the University of Ljubljana, head of the Slovenian Centre as the second foreign language at the Faculty of Philosophy of the University of Ljubljana. Ms Majda Širc, representative of the proposer, introduced a supplementary explanation of the bill. She said that the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian was being amended because the European Commission considered that the provisions of Articles 15 and 23 which prescribe Slovenian for the labelling and public advertising of products in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia did not comply with Article 28 of the Treaty establishing the European Community or with a number of judgments of the Courts of Justice of the European Communities. The amendment will complement the provision by allowing labelling and public advertising in Slovenian or in the consumer to be easily understood. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service took the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and said that most of their comments were taken into account in the amendments tabled by the Coalition. In the context of the debate on individual articles, the members and other members of the Committee and the other invited speakers focused mainly on issues relating to language exclusion in artistic texts and religious rituals, and to the performance and opportunities of advertising, labelling and presentation of products and services in addition to Slovenian, also in other consumers of easily understandable languages. In the discussion on the texts on sales products and services, some pointed out that the instructions for the use of products governed by Article 15 and the advertising regulated by Article 23 of the current law are two different segments of the activity that the novelty equates. They were also interested in the importance of the link "or rather" in the word "Slovak or consumer's easily understood language". One of the members of the Committee also proposed an amendment to the Committee, which would apply exclusively to the texts on sales products, but which, in order to clarify its legal non-resistance, the applicant withdrew. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained that European Union legislation does not allow the definition of a single language for product labelling. The representative of the Government explained that the European Commission had requested a replacement, in her view, of too restrictive provisions. Let me mention that the debate was a long one, but after the discussion the amendments to Articles 2 and 3 were adopted. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and prepared a supplementary proposal for a law including both adopted amendments. The bill is before you. The Committee proposes to be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Because the assembly is at the 11th session of the 19th. 11. 2009 carried out the first reading of the bill, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the public administration of the Republic of Slovenia for cultural activities within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members, with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Majda Shirca, Minister of Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u154	Second item in the field of culture today, Law on the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities. The basic reason for the introduction of the law is to harmonise the functioning of the Public Fund. RS for cultural activities by means of the new Public Funds Act 2008, which provides that in a two-year transitional period it is necessary to address this issue either by continuing the Fund but under different conditions, or by reshaping it. We have decided to continue because the fund is already functioning very well and we also believe that this status form, this framework, is correct and is also appropriate under given conditions or offers of status forms. The aim of the Fund for Cultural Activities, as you know, is to implement the National Cultural Programme in the field of amateur activities and the Fund in accordance with the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, implements calls, calls for co-financing of cultural programmes and projects, implements publishing programmes, educational programmes that support the creation of work and, of course, other tasks, and rewards the outstanding achievements in the field of amateur culture. In view of the purpose and the tasks already performed by the Fund, and certainly, as we say, we consider them well, the proposal of the law preserves the status form of the public fund. However, it introduces an exception with regard to the provision of fixed assets or capital, so that, if I sum up, the intended assets or capital that would be their own, we do not have to ensure that we follow the nature and manner of its work. This was the condition in the Public Funds Act 2008. In preparing the bill, we have taken into account the principle of maintaining the way the Fund operates, which has evolved since its establishment. In addition to the central service, the law preserves regional exhibitions, which we know are 59. These can, however, be combined and linked into programming coordination. This creates or already creates a cultural network that allows for balanced and coherent regional development and aligns the conditions for the pursuit of a lover's activity. The network organisation of the areas and exhibits of the Fund is strong, is highly diversified and is also a good incentive and enables the polycentric development of culture throughout the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia and even wider, in the area of the entire Slovenian cultural space. The bill itself also sets out the purpose of the operation, organisation, financing and control of the JSKD itself, slightly extending the content of its working powers, as we have postponed or redirected the co-financing of cultural activities of different nationalities in the Republic of Slovenia over the past year. To this end, the Ministry of Culture has already transferred additional funds from its items to the Public Fund. An important part of the Fund’s activities is also assistance in the preparation of local cultural programmes. Support for cultural programmes of local communities and professional assistance in the management and maintenance of public cultural infrastructure. Otherwise, the Fund will continue to operate by having the following bodies: the Supervisory Board, the Director or Director and the Professional Programme Commission, and other expert bodies and commissions, helping to assess the allocation of financial assistance within €4.5 million for the operation of the entire Public Fund over a million funds. We will be happy to explain to you the other amendments that strengthen this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u156	Mr President, Madam Minister with co-workers, Members and Members of Parliament! Since its establishment in 1996, the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities has enabled the operation and development of an important cultural network in Slovenia and also in place. As such, it is an important factor in supporting the activities of leisure cultural activities in particular. 95 regional exhibitions of the Fund through cultural mediation provide access to important cultural and artistic achievements also outside major urban centres, as they are the only provider and mediator of cultural events in a wide range of environments, especially outside urban centres. As an institution that is professionally, organisationally and financially supporting more than 4 thousand cultural societies, groups, their associations in Slovenia and Slovenian societies operating in neighbouring countries, it has developed into one of the most effective cultural networks under the auspices of the Public Fund since its establishment. And there are thousands of cultural events under this umbrella, both at municipal, regional and national level. For all cultural activities of the Public Fund [[film, folklore, theatre, music, visual activity, dance]] It also prepares various trainings. In the field of film, the authors began their journey in the course of seminars such as: Janez Burger, Andrej Žumbergar, Jure Moškon, Samo Rugelj, Vojko Anzeljc, Miha Čelar, Janez Lapajne, Petra Seliškar and many others. The Fund regularly publishes several magazines and publications, has a specialised library for all artistic types, is a founding member and coordinator of the European Network for Active Cooperation in Cultural Activities, AMATEO, based in Ljubljana, which connects most European organisations for social culture. This network has given socio-cultural organisations a representative body representing the interests of cultural cultural organisations across Europe and their integration into European cultural programmes, promoting the exchange of information and cooperation between cultural creators from European and third countries. Membership in the network and industry associations enables the harmony of the implementation of Slovenian cultural achievements, as well as the search for opportunities to bring the most important foreign creations closer to the Slovenian audience. We are convinced that we all share the view that the importance of the Fund in the amateur cultural field is invaluable, so the proposed proposal for a law that will provide an adequate legal basis for its smooth functioning is even more welcome and important in the future. With the new law, the Ministry of Culture follows the basic objective of allowing the Fund to function smoothly and legally in the future, both on the basis of the new law on public funds and on the basis of its own law. The Fund will thus continue to function as a public fund to promote the development of cultural and creative cultural activities and to carry out other activities set out in the National Programme for Culture and Programmes laid down by this Act. The way in which the Fund operates is maintained in all respects, and there is no need to provide, as an exception in the Slovenian space, property which would be its property, which is essential, depending on the nature and manner of the work of the public fund. At the Ministry of Culture, on a proposal from the public fund, they adequately resolved the legal void several times, especially in the event that the individual municipality wanted the fund to be exposed to its tasks and was also prepared to offer premises and to cover part of the costs and had no legal basis for concluding the contract. Thus, it is only legal for many to have a familiar practice that in many ways contributes to a more efficient and professional performance of the congregation’s tasks in the field of amateur cultural activities. In our opinion, the law is well prepared. Coordinated both with the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Lover Activities and with the municipalities, we are therefore of the opinion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Puksic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u158	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice-President, Minister with co-workers and co-workers. The proposal for the Law on the Public Fund for Culture replaces the law in force so far on the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the pet culture, an activity which, in the main part, ceased to be in force by the implementation of the Law on the Public Fund. You wrote in the bill: The law sets out the purpose, operation, organisation, supervision of the fund and funding. The adoption of the proposed law provides such a basis for its legal and further operation. The Fund will continue to function as a public fund. When I read this purpose and pointed out funding for this purpose, we, as I believe you at the Ministry, received a letter from the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia on 8 December 2009, where they wrote in the second paragraph: "We are totally opposed to the regulation provided for in the third paragraph of Article 15 of the law." Unfortunately, such practices are practiced by the current government and the Ministry of Culture, as we are presented with a law re-imposing to municipalities a series of obligations for which no additional financial resources are foreseen. And in this third paragraph of Article 15, there are three such activities, namely: firstly - the provision of free premises for the operation and maintenance of the Fund’s regional exposures, secondly - funds to cover the material costs associated with the premises of the regional exposures and thirdly - additional equipment for the operation of the fund’s regional exposures and the maintenance of this equipment. Dear applicants, you have somehow forgotten in the draft law the second paragraph of Article 140 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, so that the State can legally transfer to the municipalities the performance of individual tasks, if, of course, it also provides additional resources. And it is precisely to the attention of the municipalities of Slovenia and, of course, ours, about Article 15 in the third paragraph, that this is not done. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are convinced that the proponents should take into account that the state will itself finance the funds or public funds it establishes. Of course, in the event that the Fund performs certain tasks for local communities as well, these obligations are, of course, simply determined by a contract between the Fund and between the local community. We will support the proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party, but in particular we stress and highlight the need for a precise definition of this third paragraph of Article 15 of the law, which, in our opinion, is contrary to Article 140, paragraph 2, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, because it imposes on local communities the financing of the State Fund. This right simply does not have the State to establish and the local community to pay. We expect you to discuss this further in accordance with Article 140 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Honourable President, Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities. To carry out the tasks of the national cultural programme for cultural societies in 1996, the State established the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for amateur cultural activities. Since 2000 this fund has been called the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities. The Fund has set up an important cultural network covering the entire territory of Slovenia, and it extends to the place and international space. The mission of the Fund shall be carried out through professional, organisational and financial support for cultural activities. The Fund is working to increase the accessibility of cultural goods, the quality of cultural participation in the entire cultural space of Slovenia. The network plays an important role here, with 59 regional exhibitions of the Fund's service, which through cultural mediation provide access to important cultural achievements also outside major urban centres. Thus, the Fund provides professional organisational assistance to lovers and cultural societies, individuals and municipalities through the above-mentioned exhibitions. Of course, the fund also has its authorities, its directors, its supervisory board. In addition to these, 14 expert programme commissions for different areas, which have the function of advisory bodies in the execution of public calls and calls for co-financing and the preparation of Fund programmes at national level. The basis for the operation of the Fund shall be laid down in the Law on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for amateur cultural activities, which shall no longer apply to the extent that it is no longer applicable to the implementation of the Law on Public Funds. Since the two-year transitional period for harmonising the operation of the Fund set out in the Public Funds Act is soon to expire, it is time for the status to be only regulated in order to ensure the legality and smoothness of the operation. The applicant notes that the most appropriate way to regulate the legal and organisational form of the Fund so far is to act as a public fund on the basis of the general provisions governing the Public Funds and the specific law governing the public fund for amateur cultural activities. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the proposaler's decision to respect the principles of maintaining the way the fund has functioned since its establishment is correct and that it provides a good basis for the development of cultural activities in Slovenia. Since the proposed law basically does not derogate from the current regime and in principle does not contain any major changes that would be disputed for the DeSUS Group, given the content of the administrative basis on which the Fund operates today, we believe that in the DeSUS Group this Proposal for a Law on the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities is fully supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the Ministry! The basic objectives of the proposed law should be the legal and smooth functioning of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for cultural activities as a public fund, based on the provisions of the Public Funds Act, the provision of sustainable opportunities for the development of cultural activities, in accordance with public interest and the national cultural programme. Furthermore, the promotion of the development of amateur culture and cultural activities, etc. The Fund is expected to carry out professional tasks in accordance with public interest in all areas of cultural activity throughout the Slovenian ethnic area, with a view to improving accessibility to cultural goods and promoting intercultural dialogue. It is also a professional-administrative and technical assistance to amateur cultural societies, as well as assistance in the implementation of cultural events and the preparation of cultural programmes. All well and well and well and well-founded, meaningful. On the basis of the proposal, the applicant submits some comparative arrangements in other legal systems in Hungary, the Czech Republic, Romania, Croatia. We do not know by which key the comparison is carried out precisely with those legal systems, which also differ significantly from organisation to funding targeted in strong areas. So say the Hungarian Institute of Culture or the Czech Information and Advisory Centre for Culture. We would rather expect a comparison with another European country, such as Austria or Germany, where such areas are systematically efficient and otherwise resolved and organised and largely decentralised across countries, while we are taking the whole matter in the opposite direction of jurisdiction and decision-making. Thus, rather than the comments and suggestions of certain municipalities which assess certain designations as inappropriate, for example, in Article 15, these are provisions on financing. There are also comments on the competence of the Regional Units of the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for cultural activities when it comes to the selection of programmes and projects in the field of amateur activities for the areas of individual municipalities. We have comments and questions about the provisions on financing in the Slovenian National Party. On the one hand, the applicant argues that the law will have no financial implications for the state budget and other public funds. On the other hand, Article 15 provides for the method of obtaining funds or financing the Fund from different sources, including from the State budget, from the budget of the self-government local communities, this is a matter which is in some way disputed in accordance with the provisions of the law establishing the public interest in culture. Hence, from sources of funds to which some municipalities have comments. In short, the claims that the law will have no financial implications for the state budget will not hold. Unless the applicant expects the Fund to be financed by the local self-government communities, which is certainly inappropriate and unacceptable for local communities. A number of questions are also raised regarding the acquisition of own revenue from admissions, registrations, quotations, sales of publications, etc., where matters are not explicitly settled or set in respect of tax obligations. In the following Article 15 on financing, the applicant shall indicate the founders in the obligation to provide funds for co-financing of the Fund's programmes and projects, for transfers on the basis of public calls and calls for proposals, for covering the costs of operation of the Fund, for material costs and also for the payment of the salaries of employees and other material costs of the staff, for the payment of meetings, for the other costs of members of the Supervisory Board, for the professional programme commissions and so on. When it comes to employees in line with us, it is clear why the applicant has gathered for comparability certain legal systems in certain countries, such as the Czech National Cultural Information Advisory Centre. There are 60 employees. In the Slovenian National Party, we are interested in: What quota for additional new bureaucrats is the proposer planning, i.e. the Ministry of Culture? Does this mean additional burdens for Slovenian taxpayers, additional burdens for an already impoverished Slovenian economy? In the Slovenian National Party, we strongly oppose any unnecessary expansion of state bureaucracy. Only at the Ministry of Culture do you have employees strong over 200 people, that is, five times more than in 1993. We will not now start to assess the usefulness and efficiency of their jobs, although sooner or later we will also have to deal with this matter. Nevertheless, we would like to suggest that you plan for appropriate redefinitions or rationalisation of red tape employment, unless you have, Madam Minister, what compensation obligations under employment and are due to fulfil them. The question is hypothetical, quite on the spot, if we take into account general sad practice also in other ministerial departments. In short, in view of the above and of our justifications and explanations in the Slovenian National Party, we will not support the draft law. We believe that it is not suitable, it is not sufficiently processed for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, coworkers. Colleagues and colleagues. As has already been said here by the Minister, this is a fundamental reason for this law's proposal for formal reasons, namely to comply with the 2008 Public Funds Act. Of course, for us in the Liberal Democracy, for this formal reason, the content of this bill is also very important. According to the content, the current operation of the Public Fund for Cultural Activities, including according to experts, the interested public and the experience provided by local communities, has been good. We therefore agree in the House of Members that what is good is good to keep, and it is always good to think about upgrades and new options when changing and supplementing. At the LDS Club we support the proposal of the law, as it regulates amateur cultural activity in Slovenia, which has a long tradition. It is one of the solid foundations of national cultural identity and Slovenians, and those who, due to historical circumstances, have remained outside the boundaries of their homeland have been linked to a single cultural space. This is how we support the purpose of the Fund for Cultural Activities, which means the implementation of the national cultural programme as the main strategic document of Slovenian cultural policy on amateur cultural activities, by making the creativity and quality growth and prosperity of all areas of cultural life possible in Slovenia and in place and in the wider international space. With its 59th regional exhibitions and programme coordinations, it fulfils the tasks of promoting the development of amateur cultural activities and creativity by providing professional organisational assistance to lovers and cultural societies, their associations, individuals and self-government local communities, the flow of information between them and the availability of quality cultural goods throughout the Slovenian cultural space. In our view, it is very important that the rational network organisation of the Public Fund allows professional organisational and financial support for cultural activities to be accessible throughout Slovenia under the same conditions, while events also allow for the presentation, comparison and evaluation of achievements according to the uniform professional criteria. It is particularly important to point out that assistance in the preparation of local cultural programmes, in the management and maintenance of public cultural infrastructure support for cultural programmes to local communities, in particular in the area of exhibition activities and cinema, since outside major urban centres the Fund is often the only provider or mediator of cultural events. The Fund thus directly promotes the improvement of the quality of amateur cultural programmes. Compared to the current legislation, the new proposal for a law also brings some novelties. Thus, Article 15 introduces a novelty which, in our view, adequately fills the legal void that has emerged in the implementation of the current law. It offers the possibility for the Fund to carry out tasks under its original competence on the basis of a mutual agreement on behalf of or for the municipality and for the self-governing local community to provide the Fund with funds and equipment and free of charge for the implementation of those programmes. In doing so, we point out that the text written should remove any doubts or concerns of local communities that the State would like to place its duties on the local community. It's supposed to happen. It could happen the other way around. The State should help municipalities that, due to the above-mentioned human resources and other options, cannot exercise their original powers in a qualitative manner. There must be an opportunity, not a commitment, that if the congregations so wish, they may conclude a contract with the Fund to do this work for them. We support such a solution in the LDS Club, as some municipalities are already providing the Fund with funds and free space to carry out tasks under the jurisdiction of municipalities. The co-financing of the Fund’s programmes is already agreed at the level of some local communities on the basis of annual contracts, where the Fund’s programming tasks are defined exclusively for the needs of local communities. In doing so, the proposed legislation would regulate the existing good practice and offer an opportunity and therefore not a commitment to partnership between municipalities and the Fund, which in our opinion would help to better and more professionally eliminate the tasks of municipalities in the field of amateur cultural activities. It is acceptable for the LDS that the law provides for the exception that the Fund for Cultural Activities is not subject to the provisions of the Fund Act in relation to the necessary assets of capital and insolvency. We further agree with the extension of the Fund's working powers, which, in our view, would contribute to intercultural dialogue in practice. The Fund's tasks include the extension of its activities to the co-financing of cultural activities of various nationalities in the Republic of Slovenia funded by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. If I can sum it up. The bill that we are considering today preserves good solutions in providing the network organisation of amateur cultural activities under existing legislation and adds new solutions that have already proved appropriate in practice. Its adoption will enable the achievement of one of the most important objectives of the current national cultural programme. This is the promotion of the appropriate distribution of cultural focal points throughout Slovenian space. Of all the above, we will support the law for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr László Göncz, Member of the national community, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister and co-workers. In view of the rich tradition of amateur cultural activities in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia and also in the wider geographical area, we welcome the intention of the proposer of the law to make it possible, through the new text of the law, to enable the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia to operate more appropriately, legally and smoothly for cultural activities. It is important that the preparation of the law takes into account the principle of maintaining the operation of the Fund, which has evolved since its establishment. The drafter points out that the purpose of the Fund is to implement the national cultural programme as a fundamental strategic document of the Slovenian cultural policy in relation to amateur activities. The new law is also important for national communities as it is an important form of a programme that contributes greatly to the preservation of the national identity and the development of the mother tongue, but also to the integration of minorities into the wider cultural space and forms an important form of integration between the majority people and the minority. Therefore, the Commission has already discussed the text of the bill as an interested body for the national community. From the point of view of the national communities, it is important that the Public Fund, as has been the case in the past, provides professional support, administrative and technical assistance to amateur cultural societies and groups in certain projects. It is important that the basic so-called special cultural programme of the Italian, Hungarian national communities and programmes of the Roma community, which are based on specific constitutional rights and which form the basis for the preservation and development of national identity, also in the future represent the whole of the content which, as provided for in the proposal for this law, are therefore making proposals for decisions of the minority itself and the final decision is taken on the basis of coordination with them by the competent ministry or the National Assembly. However, in order to maintain and enhance professional cooperation with the Public Fund for Cultural Activities and its regional positions and to participate in certain cultural programmes of common importance, we propose that Article 4 of the proposal be supplemented by ensuring that cooperation with indigenous national communities and with the Roma community in the field of amateur cultural activities. We would like to propose a supplement in the sense of adding one new indent, the sixth indent of Article 4, which should read: "Cooperation with the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities and the Roma community in the field of amateur cultural activities". The proposal, even in this case, does not impose any additional burden on the state budget. Such a proposal shall be accepted by the organisations of the national communities and also by experts within the framework of the Public Fund, as well as by the members of the Commission for the National Communities of the National Assembly. I therefore hope that our concrete proposal will also be agreed by the drafter of the law and will receive support from the home committee. Otherwise, we'll support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potrat, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! Let me first mention that the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal that the law is suitable for further consideration. Even if there were no general treatment, the Social Democrats would support the law because we are informed that the law is harmonised among those who are mainly intended for it. These are a number of cultural societies in Slovenia, which are concerned about organisational, information and software support by the Public Fund for Lover Cultural Activities, as it has been called so far. It has already been said that with the proposed law, the Government wants to replace the Law on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Lovers, Cultural Activities and that the Law on Public Funds, which was amended in 2008, has set a time limit within which the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities should be properly recast if it is to continue its work. When we discussed on the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth last February about the situation of amateur culture in Slovenia, another possibility of organisational structure was given or offered, this is an agency, but now, as we see, there is a law that speaks of the Public Fund for Cultural Activities. The problem was that part, which also spoke of providing dedicated assets and capital. An exception is now granted in Article 2, in the third paragraph, under the Public Funds Act, which, of course, allows it not to apply to this public fund that part of the Public Funds Act deals with issues of asset, capital and insolvency. Given that core work, content areas, organisation, the scope of employees, which some believe has also been problematic, is not changing, we also believe that, in this basic purpose, which ensures the operation of the 59th stand network, with which the entire Slovenian space is covered, can be supported as an appropriate solution. It is, therefore, that there is no interference in the functioning of the Fund in terms of substance and form. The proposals of the bodies of the Fund are also mentioned in the law. Here, too, at least one of them can be found to be a reduction in the number, with the previous nine, the number of members of the Supervisory Board falling to seven. However, it seems to us that it is within this framework that the oldest umbrella organisation in the field of amateur activity is also given special effect, namely the Union of Cultural Associations. It is also possible to set up or form expert programming groups. The way the fund works is defined. It is defined the control over the operation of the Fund. All other, not such essential questions, and all details will be regulated by an act establishing the Fund. At the already mentioned meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, it was stressed that this oldest umbrella organisation was not allowed to operate independently, as the Court of Auditors found that the Association of Cultural Associations could not be a partner of local communities in financing cultural societies. For this purpose, municipalities must engage the Fund and therefore I understand that the local communities have some concerns regarding Article 15 of the Law, but we have been informed about this before the debate, and the public has been informed of this, and I think that on 20 January, a proposal for an amendment to Article 15, which will eliminate all these misunderstandings or unacceptable solutions, and also for the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, which addressed its comments to the Committee and to the other groups of Members, is dismissed. This will probably make the law more acceptable. However, at the time available to local communities, we received a lot of comments, so it seems that what the Gloss trade union had to say about the bill was now resolved that the misunderstandings, as it said, are no longer in this regard and that the law will be able to receive support. But now let me say a few more words about why, in fact, the Social Democrats support the bill. In particular because it does not interfere significantly with the state of the matter, so to speak, because behind us is the experience when the State set up the Public Fund for Cultural Activities, which plays a very useful role in the professional support of social culture, to carry out its tasks in the field of the operation of cultural societies from the apparatus of the previous association of cultural organisations. But for a while there was a very unfavourable wind, in the early 1990s, and it showed that it would not be possible to avoid many problems in the functioning of cultural societies. Therefore, we believe that there is no need to intervene radically, and we are also aware that it is not possible to restore the situation to its original form as it was. It is therefore appropriate that, if the foundation act of the Fund has already imposed support for the network of cultural societies, their local associations and the Association of Cultural Associations of Slovenia, this should be done in advance. Because cultural societies have been an indispensable part of Slovenian cultural landscape for half a century and operate everywhere Slovenians live, and are always an open opportunity for other cultures that exist in the Slovenian space. Many professional cultural institutions have emerged from them in the past, but the activities of cultural societies have not been disrupted and the need to organise people autonomously for creative activities in cultural societies has not diminished. The resolution on the national programme for culture 2008-2011, like the first resolution, states which are the principles of cultural policy, but we believe that the preamble does not take into account the actual role of a diversified network of cultural societies. This is the widest framework of living, non-professional and human culture, which is based on tradition or cultural tradition on the one hand, and on the other, it is open to creative searches that are sometimes not accepted by professional cultural institutions. The whole types of cultural creativity with which Slovenia belongs to the world summit, e.g. assembly, festivities, contemporary dance, folklore and so on, are completely left to cultural societies. Associations of cultural societies, together with the Public Fund for Cultural Activities, are solely concerned with regular presentations of the creativity of children's or school groups. It can therefore be said that without cultural societies it is not possible to fully implement the European cultural convention and other commitments and recommendations regarding respect for fundamental human rights in culture. Although the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture is incomplete in article 80, it defines cultural societies. It should be said, however, that only this novelty, which has recently been adopted, has enabled cultural societies to become more accessible to society in the public interest, even though cultural societies exercise this public interest under the national programme on cultural activities. They were determined to comply with specific requirements if they wanted to gain the status of society in the public interest and the greatest problems related to the fact that cultural societies could not enforce this status were linked to the deprivation of the right to operate cultural homes which they had built themselves and, in many cases, to the fact that the newly created halls intended for sports activities were less suitable or even not available to carry out cultural activities. This is because municipalities are very different in dealing with the issue of cultural infrastructure, as do cultural societies in the environment, and it is not easy to say that local communities are less favoured in the financing of cultural societies than in larger centres. It is therefore a matter of seeing in this law the possibility that, while the current situation is being maintained, there will also be a number of improvements, so at this principle level we will support the proposal of the law. However, we believe that any comments or improvements could also be made at the home labour body and later at the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr Alexander Zorn will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, colleagues, Mr President, distinguished Minister. Colleagues, we have before us a general debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities, with which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes solutions to enable it to function legally and smoothly. The main emphasis of the law is that it provides a permanent opportunity for the development of cultural activities by continuing to promote the development of cultural activities and cultural creativity throughout the Slovenian ethnic area, in accordance with public interest and the national cultural programme. And, of course, education in the cultural field. On the proposal of the law, we cannot go beyond the fact that a lover's cultural activity has a long tradition and that the connecting factor is the preservation of national cultural identity in Slovenia, in substitution and in the world. Thus, it is also an incentive factor for the general public to express culture. Within the framework of the content of the proposal, the operation of the Fund is to be touched. The draft law takes into account the principle of maintaining the operation of the Fund, which has evolved since all its establishment since 1996. It has established a cultural network that covers the entire Slovenian cultural space and creates wide access to culture for many users. The role of the Fund is particularly important due to accessibility to culture, since with 59 exhibitions in the immediate environments and 10 regional coordinations, the only provider and indirect cultural events is. However, with regard to the proposal for a law, it is also appropriate to touch and talk about the financing of the Fund. This is that 15th article that almost all of my previous interlocutors spoke of. Article 15 proposes a solution which raises the issue of compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In our opinion. Article 15 of the Law provides for the provision of funds to the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for cultural activities by self-government local communities. This provision constitutes additional financial obligations and interferes with the autonomy and autonomy of self-government local communities and does not provide adequate financial resources for the performance of these tasks. This is contrary to the provisions of Article 138 and Article 140(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that certain solutions to the law are appropriate and we agree with them. However, we propose that the solutions regulating the Fund's financing and interfering with the autonomy and autonomy of the local self-government communities be amended and supplemented by compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and positive legislation. This can be arranged with additional amendments, either on the working body or here. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the conclusion that the draft law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u171	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Andrea Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u172	Thank you very much. What a lovely greeting, distinguished minister, respected vice president, colleague and colleague! Let me first say that I will support the law and follow its consideration in detail on the committee when we discuss these objections from some of the parliamentary groups from which I hear that there might be a financing problem. I do not have this fear alone, as I follow regular arrangements and professional coordination. And I am very glad that the Community of Congregations has been able to discuss this and to arrange professionally that there will be no additional burdens. It saddens me, however, that when we discuss in this temple of democracy, we often talk about how culture is the main essence, how, after all, so many and so many societies in the Slovenian space of those who make our country recognize how Slovenian language is the one we need to strengthen and protect, and so on. However, when we link this to funding, we remain in the background with all of this and are given a second priority, especially when we are talking about local communities. I'd like the mayors to speak frankly when we're talking about burdens. We know that years ago, 10 years ago, there will now be a major constitutional dispute precisely because of the transfer of funding of certain obligations to the local community because they did not give consent. I thought that, for ten years, if the country wanted and allowed or even thought about it, because their constitutional competence was also to care for and care for the expansion of cultural activities, it would be a bit indebted to the State to think regularly about the need for at least their societies, their people, their free time, their society and their lives, and even to upgrade it. Then we would not have brought about a constitutional dispute, and that is, unfortunately, the outcome of this debate. I am very pleased and also support this because it is a major change in that part of the law that needs to be aligned with the rest of the general legislation. The proposer intervenes, of course, in the operation of the Fund, not so substantively or formally, because the Fund works perfectly. Excellent and we can recognize this from the report, from numbers and not least from the results that all our societies achieve in international and Slovenian space. And may it be that to those who are you, to those who are sent together in the beginning, which are mixed together, we have in the field, and at least every farmer has a regulated field, and knows what he is bearing. And when you talked about some additional budget burdens, some terrible numbers of employees at the Ministry of Culture who just looked at what was going on and looked at the fact that the Ministry of Culture also has bodies in its composition, that it also has some national institutions that fall within the human resources structure and are numbered in their competence. And sometimes we would look at that when we adopt legislation, some part of this legislation also falls within the competence of the Ministry of Culture, which must also implement, not least, the legislation that we are adopting here. It is already such that culture is a very beautiful thing to focus on when we have time. That it is very often the one for which we would not count anything, and that the cultural holiday is approaching and I am very much, I will not say a word of concern, but I am curious as to how much local communities will afford, in quotations, and reward those cultural creators who will perform on this cultural holiday. Because I think it's a general practice, if it's a culturer, and especially if it's from a local environment, but it's one who, for his own good and for his pride or reputation, is performing and that's why he gets paid, which is called, "Thank you very much, it's been very great, come also next year." Therefore, let me say that the proposal of the law, especially after the last coordination with the community community, is well prepared, for the good against, because it has their passport and, of course, no fear that any congregation should accidentally give any tolar to the budget for the last time, I repeat again, their societies, their creators and their culture. That's not gonna happen. This has been assured by the Ministry of Culture, which has managed to reach agreement with the community of municipalities, and we will probably also be following and supporting Members when we receive such a proposal on the competent home committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you. The Minister, Mrs Maja Shirca, spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u174	Today's debate, which marked the presentation of the views of the groups of Members, is going in a different direction. Because, in coordinating this proposal, the Ministry has done what some do not know yet, and Mr Pukšič, who is also the mayor, and should therefore listen at this time to read something already on the websites of the community, SOS, which states that it agrees with the more clearly stated article 15 which does not change the content, but is obviously not sufficiently understandable, so we have prepared it for future consideration probably through an amendment form that says that in no way changes the practice or reduces the integrity of the budgets of the municipalities, which could ultimately be further identified within an activity called a loving culture. I'm going back to the term "lover's culture", which has only been used a few times today. Why? Because it's true because it covers what it means to love and what it means to love within societies, within initiatives, within an activity that covers a wide range of activities, we once called it more amateur, secondly, thirdly otherwise art, is actually linked to love and less to what we are dealing with today, to the budget. With the love that has kept this activity alive, which, as you yourself have presented in the positions of the parliamentary groups, has further redirected some of the great potential of cultural lovers to become professionals and are today the bearers of great not only confessions, but our satisfactions and recognized achievements within cultural activities. I am looking directly at Mr Barovic, because his colleague said that the parliamentary group would not support the proposal of the law, because he is a lover, because we are looking at him in the hall with a lovemaking activity through visual expression and I look at him because I was in his congregation a few days ago, where the lovemaking activity works brilliantly, not only through the functioning of societies within the Trbovljej home and at home of freedom, which has the right name for real activities that operate freely at a more powerful pace than in the Cankarje House in Ljubljana, but that Mr Rotovnik understands my context of implementation and also within the context of the functioning of the House of Liberty. I'm talking because it's not with the new bureaucrat, it's not about confusing the concept of love with bureaucrats. They are not increasing, but it would be good that, at a time when we are saying that employment is weak in this country, but when we talk about culture, the issue of unemployment or the rise in employment does not come to the fore because it is at the expense of the budget. But in culture, there are only 4 thousand artists on the list, this bureaucrat in our budgets. There's 5,000 cops in this country. In this context, it is not to expect major changes that would burden the new problems facing the country, but it would be good to know this budget better, because these amateur societies that you all know well, this activity is sometimes a happy 1,000 euro, more than any other institution that is not satisfied if it receives 100,000! And he can connect them because he does them with his heart, he does them with his activities, he doesn't do them as inert work, but he does them as a consciousness that there are messages, associations, connections and, of course, power, I admit, many times all too neglected local miles. And that is why they are important and alive, and that is why I think it is right that the current director also insists that at least some of the funds for the programme are being increased, because a large part of this 4.5 million value, which is linked to the entire budget of the Fund, with certain contributions from municipalities that are not indisputable, of course this part is being valued for certain percentages each year and also through a so-called tolar, which is an important contribution of the million 300, 400 000 per year by 2013, when it is in force, and I believe that this will in the future, I hope, translate into some self-appointing state funding that is necessary and not wasteful, but rich. What I wanted to say in this contribution is just not to worry about Article 15. The SOS says that it is okay, it already reports on its websites, and the Union of Congregations is familiar with this law. And we also agreed with them that everything is in harmony. Even with Glass, when she realized that it was not a public institution, but a fund that could not have its representatives in the world, because it is not a public institution world, but a supervisory council that operates according to different rules and also different procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. He's not here. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Council! First of all, what our representative of our parliamentary group, colleague Pukšič, did not question, but only drew attention to some of the conclusions of the associations of the municipalities and, given that it was the first debate, we wanted only to point out that, according to the legislation, some things should also be prepared as necessary, which is the time for further discussion, that also the dictions are such that they will not cause any confusion in the Slovenian space. This is more than an explanation given your debate, Madam Minister. Otherwise, now that I am discussing as an individual as a Member, I would say that I have quite a bit to do with the public fund for cultural activities over the years and quite a few practices. For a long time, I have also been a member of the Council of the Regional Community, from where I come from and in some areas, which I am actively involved in this amateur culture, so I will also say something of my practice. First, let me say that I support this law and that it must be urgently adopted in further debate and procedures so that it does not happen by accident that all this activity, which is also driven by the Fund in the field of culture throughout our Slovenia, is not interrupted in any way. I am certainly one of those who am particularly interested in this. I must say that in some environments, we are, if I say so, sometimes there have been some over 60 municipalities, now there are about 210 of them, and this fund or culture is one of those activities that many times is an extremely large interconnection of individual areas. And that, of course, is positive. I, too, in our environment, where I come from, always take up and support those activities that are intertwined between individual congregations, or which link a sub-region or a rounded area in one way or another. In this case, surely the public fund is one of those, of course with the world of regional exposure, those who are the driving force not only in celebrating a cultural holiday or a day or a week or a month, we have a specific month of culture, because this is the time, because truly cultural institutions, cultural societies, societies in the field of culture, which are prepared in advance, do not operate hand in hand and give something of themselves this month. Not only this month, in fact, preparing for the month of culture is also preparation for the whole year and events throughout the year in the field of cultural activities. The recognitions and awards that are envisaged are many times the only recognitions - except municipal recognitions and municipal awards - that are received by active individuals who have never been paid for their work and are in fact the only payment they actually receive, the only recognition they receive at a public event, which is particularly important. If I go to this state level now, to the Supervisory Committee or the Supervisory Board, which counts on this proposal, I think I read correctly, seven members. I like the composition, but I admit that it will be difficult to achieve all these criteria, cover all areas of the Fund, cover the finances, cover legal matters and cover the regional composition and represent the various cultural activities in the field of the Fund's operation. This will be difficult to achieve, but in some ways the government will also have to resolve it. I don't want to spend all my time, because maybe one of my colleagues is going to be discussing it. I must say that I also like the fact that the functioning of all the institutions of the Fund continues not to be the case that, suddenly, by the end of the validity or the entry into force of the new law, the cooperation of the institutions that have worked so far, but that goes on and on the ground, as I have read, the implementation of the new law should not be known at all. I have this feeling, I'm probably not wrong, I've been able to read so many marriages, because I've been reading them for a while. It seems important to me that this alliance will be achieved, especially in a rural area where there is no high culture, where there are no highly professional cultural institutions, that cultural societies will work there, and that being not professional does not mean that they are poor by quality. In the area of amateur culture, we have creators at an extremely quality level. I am also pleased to see that you have made sure that the articles to which the representative of our parliamentary group has warned or read the warnings of the community will be defined more clearly. I think that completely, even on my part, there is no reason not to support this first reading. However, if anything else needs to be corrected, we will do so in further discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr. Zanoskar. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u178	Thank you. It is true that the Working House of Trbovlje is active at least as much as the House of Cankar. True, many activities in this cultural home are richer than many elsewhere. It is true that, thanks to the new Director of the Public Institute, the Working House of Trbovlje will receive a lot of help in discussions with the Minister and her co-workers because they are listening. But you know, Madam Minister, this has absolutely nothing to do with the law and even less with the public fund. Now I will explain to you why and, of course, to my fellow Members from my right, in your direction. We had a call today in the congregation of Trbovlje - and then I will return to Article 15 - which we have announced to all the cultural institutions that love to apply for it. When they signed up, the municipality of Trbovlje will either use its own resources or, last year, take away 40,000 euros from its own budget and distribute them to these companies. These lovers' societies, which are many and some of us are even prouder in Zasavje and Trobje, than the Slavs, not to list anyone else, to the theatres and so on. In addition, the municipality gives free space, the congregation speaks, gives them free space for exercise. When they argue with the assembly and look for a new one, they come to the mayor's office and ask for one, but he is highly educated and is from Ljubljana or Celje and will cost something. And that congregation that money. In addition to the fact that the municipality still has €7,500 to expose the public fund, which resides in this working house for material expenses, for the office and, as far as I know, I have seen from all these two presentations. I'll say it again. The municipality, the budget of the municipality of Trbovlje for over 50,000, is also why I love culture, because I am always there, giving my own money, we organize the event ourselves at a cultural holiday. Not only do we organise it ourselves, not only do we financially settle it from our own resources to the one who will take place, not only do the congregation pay even the script, if it is an external collaborator, we pay everything honestly. Even if they're lovers, we know they had expenses, the congregation. That is why I will not ask, because I do not have time for what was wrong with the Law on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the amateur cultural activities that it was, and the work of the public fund was as an act establishing a public fund. Okay. A new law will now be passed, the Law on the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities. Like any law, this law has all its elements, and all these elements, all these articles are binding when the law enters into force. Among these is Article 15, which will be binding if the law enters into force, which specifies precisely that I will be specific, that I will not be speaking in exactly three days, the idea that the Fund will acquire funds from the State budget, the budgets of the self-government local communities, the European Union and then further set out in the third paragraph, stipulates, I say, not suppose, determines what someone will have to give and we will have to respect it. And it says here that the self-government local community, in this case the municipality of Trbovlje, will be easier to imagine that it will provide funding for the co-financing of programmes and projects carried out by regional expositions. Here I ask myself, is it my duty to bring money to the one who runs the exhibition and say, "Now, for this money, he does something to me in culture." Or he will come to me and say, "I am a representative of the public fund, and I offer you this, and it costs so much and so." I don't understand because I've never seen this before. I don't understand. Come in. Free space to work, that's what we do. Means to cover material costs, we are already doing so, funds for the salaries of additional employees and additional equipment for the operation and so on. This will be binding for me. No matter what the result of the work. When the law is in force, I have to give it to you. It should also be binding on all that is written in this law, but what is a public fund, I speak in full, and the regional unit must do for us: coordinate, organise and conduct amateur activities. Unfortunately from practice on a smaller unit, I don't know what it's like to be at the center, somewhere else, it can be very nice and quality I solve the spatial problems of the singing society, which is not satisfied where the cheerleaders are in one room at 4: 00 p.m. because they want to practice at 4:00 p.m. they can't do it at 6:00 p.m. Bogdan Barovic, mayor, not harmony. I am the one who organizes and helps to obtain a new conductor or a slightly more educated conductor, if there is a slightly larger concert, at least for a while - not a harmony. All of this is done by the congregation with its means through, thank God, the director of the working house and here I have never seen this fund before. But since we accept, Madam Minister, the law, and I say that the law is the world, the laws must be respected, I am truly concerned. And I ask once again, the basic question: whether I, as mayor or the local community, will go to the fund and offer him money, he will give me something for this money, or the fund will offer me a program, and I will say to the fund, by law I owe you, how many cultural societies you love, I will help you organize them, I will organize your rooms, I will schedule you, I will do the show, I will do the script for the cultural event. I'm sorry, even if I do, but I have an area display of the fund in the Rippers, and I've never seen this movie in my life. I can only dream of him. And there were different views from here, and they wanted to teach us how to view amateur cultural activity. We're looking very closely at her, and we're putting everything behind her. Today we made maximum money, we tear it apart, but there was no amateur cultural activity anywhere. Except that she'll get 7,500 or 8,000 euros, that she has room to have material costs covered, that I might see two shows or maybe now three, because, if you do, you're criticising. That's a real picture. And I'm in favour of this marriage really doing something about it. Just until I get through this, I can't get on my neck, I can't say on my nose, and that's "fine." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr Jerič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. Mr. Vice President, the House of Honor! Today we have a first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities, which was sent into the procedure by the Government and prepared by the Ministry of Culture. The basic purpose of the law is to preserve the continuity of the work of the public fund, which covers the entire Slovenian space with a network of 59 exhibitions and to provide organisational, information and programming support to cultural and cultural society and groups. The proposer shall not interfere with the operation of the Fund, either in substance or in a form. The only change that, while consistent with partners, is the transfer of the treatment of minority programmes and funds for them. As stated in the resolution on the national programme for culture 2008-2011, amateur activity is particularly important in terms of maintaining national cultural identity in the country, in place and around the world. This is an activity that connects as many Slovenians as possible across all borders, while at the same time the broadest layer of the population encourages and enables them to express cultural needs. Lover's cultural activity has a very long tradition in Slovenia. If we look at the area of amateur theatre activities, they were the first amateur players to play in the Slovenian language, students of the Jesuit College, in the middle of the 17th century, as stated by the Slovenian Encyclopedia. However, it may have a primate Idrija mining blower named Valvasor in Slava Vojvodina Kranjska and dates to 15 September 1686. Other chroniclers even mention date 1665, which of course puts it first among the oldest celebrations in Europe and actively lives and works today. Cultural amateur activity is being organized after 1848, especially in the context of the reading movement, which, after 1860, finally established a mass-loving activity. However, it continued with independent educational societies or cultural activities of societies that had other basic activities such as eagles, falcons, firefighting and housing societies of reciprocity and freedom. After World War II, the Union of Cultural and Educational Organizations of Slovenia, which was organised in all municipalities, was established. As of 1990, the programming situation for amateur organisations has not changed significantly. However, a period of statusal irregularity has begun and therefore uncertainty has broken down the system of financing cultural activities through cultural communities. The reform of local self-government has endangered the operation of the existing network of 60 associations of cultural organisations and the country has adopted a law on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Lovers of Cultural Activities at the end of 1995 to ensure consistent and balanced cultural development throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Today we have about 4,000 companies, which include more than 100,000 people who organize and offer 17,000 events annually and an additional 2,000 with the help of the Fund. By comparison, in 1885 we had 1,269 companies with also 100,000 members. In 1996, 1,024 companies with about 50,000 members. Growth is mainly due to the establishment of societies in the newly formed municipalities, the additional registrations of cultural groups that previously acted informally, and the benefits brought by the Social Act. The functions of amateur cultural activities are multilayered. They refer in particular to the quality of leisure, cultural creativity and creativity, cultural education and education, and the broad availability of cultural values. The main umbrella organisation of amateur cultural societies is the Association of Cultural Associations of Slovenia with a network of 66 local associations, with about 2,900 registered cultural societies and 4,500 production units. It is precisely because we are aware of the importance of cultural activities that we have already included in the Cultural Tolar Act in 1998 that we have included a programme to maintain the achieved rate of development of the cultural culture and to equalise development standards across local communities, which is divided into four pillars: to finance equipment and premises, to informatics, to youth cultural centres and to the field of cultural activities of expatriates and residents. The law began to be implemented or implemented in 1999 and was extended twice. Funding for amateur culture is also nominally increasing in the state budget. In 2008, EUR 4 million was realized, of which EUR 350,000 was a cultural tolar or a new euro. In 2009, with the budget rebalancing of €5 million, €26,000, of which €132,000 was the basis of the Cultural Tolar Act or EUR 132 thousand, which was the first time since the adoption of this Act, that the budget covered the entire statutory amount. In the 2010 and 2011 budgets, we allocate €234 000 in 2010 and €5 million in 2011 to finance the public fund's pet culture programmes and the Cultural Tolar Act. It is said that compared to 2008, where the previous government completed its work, funds are increasing significantly over the coming years. Thus, in 2010, we will allocate 832 000 euros from the cultural tolar of this activity, and in 2011 we will spend more than 800 000 euros. Therefore, as a proposal for the Law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture, I am pleased that, also due to the adoption of this law in 2008, funding for amateur culture could be increased from 2009 onwards. The validity of this law will expire in 2013 and I hope that, under this law, the funds for a lover's culture will also be provided in the future. Since I am aware of the importance of a loving culture, of course I will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u182	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister! Of course I support this law. And if I spoke earlier on behalf of the parliamentary group, I will now speak somewhat more directly from the fact that the public fund for cultural activities, and especially the public fund for amateur activities, hears a lot of complaints, not complaints about structurality, about organisation, but about the content management of the amateur culture in Slovenia. We have many other regions around Ljubljana. And unfortunately, until we regionalise Slovenia, we are aware that certain management of these activities and financing of these activities will remain centralistic. Slovenia is a centralist country for once. So we need regionalisation, we also need regionalisation of the functioning of this fund. Most complaints are at the expense of the influences of Ljubljana when some societies are trying to express cultural content that is connected to a specific space. I come from Slovenia and I have experienced a lot of criticism as a Member and I want to convey them to you, although, of course, Madam Minister, it is not your fault, but to intervene in order to prevent the further unification of cultural rumours by financing this or that activity. I'll be very specific. In Istria there are a large number of cultural societies that deal with human culture, human music, human noses, singing, choir singing. And of course they stick to some typical patterns, cultural patterns of the mixed area, because it is difficult to determine what is Slovenian, what is Italian and what is Croatian. In Istrian music and traditional culture, cultural patterns are very complex and so intertwined. It happens, let's say that a fund representative comes along or teaches someone to play or dress in some stereotyped way that meets some academic criteria in Ljubljana, which creates a lot of trouble. And that's what's been going on. People who work in these societies feel these influences as the influences of some kind of cultural politician. This criticism, which I am now mediating, is well-intentioned, and I hope that you will take it into account when it comes to supporting these societies where patterns of multiculturalism are so present. And people who sing or play certain instruments should be entrusted with the autonomy and competence, the competence to express a human culture. This is well-intentioned because I am making these complaints precisely because I am defending this law and defending the functioning of the public fund. I think it is necessary and useful at this point, but provided that all these sensibilities, which are particularly on the periphery of Slovenia, will be taken into account, in particular in more remote places where people want to cultivate their culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr Györek has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Rezman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the introduction, we heard some very kind words based on the experience described by the Minister regarding the fund for amateur cultural activities. I would only add to that my consent. I am not the first in line today, the whole species is, and also what kind of comment, critical and justified, cannot make this general impression worse. During the years of its existence, the fund for amateur cultural activities has done a great deal in terms of extending support to these societies, both at horizontal level and in terms of vertical selection. He contributed much to the fact that what was happening at the local level could also be promoted to a level of excellence and to intercultural, international and other cooperation. As far as this is concerned, those who have experience in the operation of this fund have no qualms about not supporting this bill as it is before us in general. The introduction also said that this bill does not have any particular ambition to change as far as funding is concerned. There will be no more resources, and probably no less, as this is not dependent on this law. It has been said that it does not bring anything new after content. There is no fear that something will change dramatically in terms of supporting the activities of cultural societies. And it has been said that, in fact, if I make it a little easier, it is only to allow this good work from the past to be brought into line with the legislation it found during its operation a good year ago. In this regard, all my support is also mine. However, I would like to say something very clear once again because some things seemed to have been mixed up. We have a number of companies at the level of local communities that work. These companies were once connected to the ZKO. That's not going to happen today. If we could draw this history back, it would be clearer what was actually happening in the middle. And these ZKOs who shut down have replaced other associations in which societies have merged. And to equalize a fund with that is, in my opinion, a complete mistake. In principle, the Fund is State aid to the work of those organisations that have already operated and which will be later. The question is, what would they be missing if there was no fund? This fund is not an additional financial and other burden. This fund is aid, which is also not octogated by any law. It is allowed as an option, as some have already mentioned this in the debate today. This assistance must probably be used as much as possible. If they were to deduct the functioning of the Fund and only agree on what they are giving to local communities, they would find that without the fund they would be with less resources. There would be less support for a fan culture. Therefore, it may not be the most justified to point to the fund as a consumer in municipal budgets, but it is necessary to view it as someone who helps us to make our societies work. Let me do it again. The fund, according to my judgment, is no coercion, an option that many congregations and local communities accept with favor. Distress arises between local communities because several municipalities are being merged into the exhibition area and most of the costs usually fall to one, where it is also established. And there's no real distribution here. Perhaps this is a topic for further discussion when the law is in the process.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr Žnidaršič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I will support the law on the fund for the operation of amateur cultural activities. Not just because it requires a fund law, whose term of two years expires, that these things need to be settled. In particular, it is a noble purpose to ensure that the level of cultural activities achieved is maintained, as well as the further development of those activities alone. At the level of our congregation, communities, local communities, I can say that things work very well. There is no cultural event where the fund would not participate and there is almost no cultural event organisation within the fund where the municipality would not participate. The Fund also strongly supports the newly established societies in their operations in this area and also supports those companies that have operated long before this Fund was established. Therefore, I think that this question of funding certain obligations on the part of the congregation, at least for our area, makes no sense. I believe that the law actually legitimizes what has already been resolved at the level of the municipalities. If he's not, it's an exception before the rule. And I don't think it's a tragedy if it's written in this law, regardless of the provision in the constitution, which says that the state can't impose anything on the municipalities that is not specifically financed. It will finance and help all municipalities where they cannot cover by themselves the level of cultural activity that the local community wants to maintain at all costs, and they will probably not be able to choose the resources themselves, not for the space or for the person who would do so. I think that, because of this at the level of the country, that part of the budget is also one of the resources to ensure this, and that gradually, if we do not very soon ensure that all levels operate in the field of the operation of the Fund and thus allow us to maintain and continue to develop amateur cultural activities at the level of the municipalities. I can say by myself from our environment that these events and so much so that people have grown to heart if this thing were to be stopped or stopped, there would be a void that would seriously disturb and people would find it difficult to accept. That is why, of course, this law needs to be supported and I will contribute my voice myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u188	Good-bye! Honourable Vice President, Honourable Minister, Director of the Fund, Fellow Workers! Let me also say in the introduction that I will certainly support this bill. I also know the operation of the fund at local level, the operation of the fund in its entirety and share the opinion of those colleagues who stressed that the Fund was good news in 1995 when local self-government was established in Slovenia in a different way than it was in the past. And also to those ladies who said that in the beginning there were a number of unknowns mainly in the division of powers between the fund, the association of cultural societies and similar matters. During these 15 years, the mission of each other has been very crystallized. In the environment from which I come, it is said from the Krško Congregation, I can safely say that today such a fund, the association of cultural societies, the congregation with their colleagues and societies generally cooperate very well with each other and that in these years there has been some kind of division of competence, activity, the interest sphere of individual actors, and in this area today there are really no problems. The problem that comes to us is that, just as in some way, mentality in the 1990s, that at the time of capitalism everything will be paid and that the collapse of social activities has happened the exact opposite, similar to that in firefighting, is similar in cultural activities, that the actual increase in the number of societies and what has been very noticeable in recent years is also the increase in the quality of activity. Today, if we have a problem at the local level, we have the most often when culturers measure each other, what's more, what's more, what's a transition to a higher level. And these are the sweet problems, which are not so sweet when the municipal funds that we devote to culture are shared and then we listen to different opinions that are justifiable. I think that the biggest problem we have right now in the area of culture is that this activity is actually at a large scale, but it is a sweet problem and there is no problem with it. We are aware of what was done by the congregation, including ours, and we have done so in the past. Such an arrangement as it has been in the past that those municipalities that we have offered free of charge have also received an exhibition, in some way we are legitimizing. And in this part, I think it is right that the congregations, as well as the community, should be reminded of some of the old customs that were that there were slowly new obligations on the congregations. In this case, it was not a new obligation, so I think it is certainly right to support it in the National Assembly. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] This law, and also to allow for the continued quality functioning of amateur culture in Slovenia, which is also the foundation of Slovenia, as we like to say. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Friend has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Greetings to the minister and to the coworkers! I must commend you and say that you have prepared a good law, which is an excellent basis for cooperation, when there is already a community and a public fund, to be improved, to be upgraded. For those who do not yet know this good practice, which occurs in the ninety-five Slovenian exhibits, perhaps a challenge. I am glad that this dilemma has also been clarified, as far as funding is concerned, that our housing associations have also come to realize that this is something that leads forward, that the decision is voluntary, that we are not forcing anyone into anything. I must say that I am pleased to come from a city that has 16,000 inhabitants and our smoky amateur band in the hall attracts 1,000 visitors. You won't believe it. Every 16th citizen attends their traditional pre-news concert. I also have to say that because I visit a large event, including in Ljubljana in Cankarjev home, where everything is well arranged, the protocols are flawless, but the soul, energy and pleasure in which the village rural home is many more. We have a cultural society that celebrates its 90th anniversary this year. And I must say, twice, three times a year, we are surprised by the wonderful premieres, and I also stress and declare good practice that when we have the most resilient cultural events at congregation holidays and others, the best people in the local congregation are shown what is best for the local culture. The audience's visit is always ensured. People want to see people they know, and they also look forward to the satisfaction of their children, grandchildren, parents, or others. Therefore, I must say that I am happy and happy to say that these difficult times in which resources for culture, as for many other things, are lacking, but that when we take advantage of volunteering, it is precisely this lack of financial resources that we replace those who attend these events, which we enjoy there, that we do not deny any artistic feeling. Since this is still a matter of volunteering, I would also like to continue with the idea already expressed by the Minister that voluntary amateur culture will double, triple, and with low-budget events, literally perform miracles. And since it is a cultural holiday on February 8th, Prešeren wrote long ago, "He is blind, with singing, my ass is showing him," and I am convinced that by this law, we prove quite contrary to this initiative that the singers, in rounding up the readers, the culturers, in this society are wanted, respected and equal interlocutors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr. Jurša has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Puksich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Petan, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u192	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Lover culture in Slovenia has a rich tradition and also a long tradition, but it is important because it nurtures human tradition and preserves the national identity. And lately, there's something else. It's about socializing people at a time when the job doesn't last from 6th to 14th or 7th to 15th, but also all day long, and then, even if they're in cultural society, they kind of relax you, somehow forget about that whole day's care and stress, so they also get a certain social role. This public fund, which will be called the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities, is important, regardless of what it will be called, also offers cultural support to cultural societies, especially at certain events, regional competitions, where they are also evaluators and thus somehow raise quality. What seems particularly important to me in today's centralised Slovenia is that the public fund also has regional exposures. And I would say, thank God that years ago, there was a tendency to reduce the number of exhibits or to stop that from happening. I think that today, together, we can find that we did what was right at the time, that the decision was so that this network of exhibits would remain on the ground. Finally, it is necessary to know that there are over 4,000 societies in Slovenia, which is a good number of these are cultural. And if every society has only one member, which of course is not true, there are more, then there are 4,000 people here who are passionate about culture. This means that not only do they expect what the congregation or the state will give him, but the members themselves draw something. If any other transport is carried out free of charge, no mileage is required. And what I mentioned earlier is socializing, and not least people don't bother to get paid too little, which is now one of the characteristics. But it is true that cultural societies have detected or detected those who also work in these societies with certain problems. One of these is the contributions to copyright required by SAZAS. Last but not least, we talked about this in our Parliament 14 days ago within the framework of the law we tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Unfortunately, he did not receive support, but it is true that we have had a discussion in which something has found us that something is wrong there and that cultural lovers society should not be burdened with this contribution on copyright – at least in certain cases when it comes to charity events or certain celebrations, when the admission is not collected and what else could be found. I hope that this law will be expected by the Government and I take this opportunity, Madam Minister, to remind you that it has been said that the Ministry will prepare its own law. We expect this thing to work out in its entirety. I would not now discuss whether this is the case, or whether my fellow Members have rejected the law by the coalition with this argument. Certainly something will have to be done in this area - we are ready to help, we can serve this proposal of law as a basis. Of course, we did not then imagine that this was the only possible solution, that it was the best solution. We faked the problem. Since it is not normal for me to say from my case that one of the amateurs, say the singer society, at a celebration, such as the Day of the Wife, to present a few songs, SAZAS sends as much as the congregation’s contribution to this society for the whole year. That's not normal. And here's where we should do something. It is also true that singing societies cannot or cannot perform works that are over 70 years old for which contributions should not be paid. This is not normal and it is not encouraging for authors to avoid doing new works. Surely, however, every law needs novelties, adjustments. And so it is in this case. The time goes on, so I can only say that I support this proposal of the law at first reading to proceed. This does not mean that the comments that will come from our side, as well as from others, we would like to say to the professional public, and we could say here to the loving public that this would be taken into account and involved in this law, so that the solutions will then be acceptable to all. Finally, I would say that, as we all support this public fund with a wide-ranging network on the ground, this also requires financial resources so that, as I will just address the Minister, I will be successful in obtaining funds, we will probably support, there will be no problems, and that this amateur culture in Slovenia can continue to live and that it will maintain this well-tangled network on the ground. Not everything is not in Ljubljana or in any other large centre, even on the ground there is a lot going on. Maybe the thing is even more loving there, you don't need bills to be supported, of course, by adequate finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u193	Thank you. Would you like a word, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u194	Only the answer to the Member's proposal or question relating to copyright issues, which we know are binding and do not choose whether it is a lover's art or, say, professional art. That's a hot one. You've had it on your menu for quite some time. I was aware of him myself, and I had once warned about them in these rooms. And in some respects, in fact, she stressed that the Ministry of Culture should be the defender who would take care of the author as soon as possible of someone else who, in the light of the establishment of ministries, cares for other interests. But to think about who's preparing this marriage, it's always prepared by the government. However, if this is the case, the government is not a single ministry, I would like to say that it is the interrelationship of the various departments and that we are attentive and cooperative in the preparation and resolution of these questions, which have some of the answers already received at the Ministry of Culture. Indeed, we have not done what the Government once discussed in order to move the Office of Copyright and Intellectual Property to the Ministry of Culture, because this would mean some questions, what then with the custody of intellectual property, which is more related to industry. That is why we have a commitment with the Ministry of Economy, where the office houses us to cooperate. The Director himself says that the analysis of the detected issues, which are very difficult for this segment. But we know that other segments are also questionable, and the question is, if it is enough that, within the possible, now given, this is the right negotiation with SASAS, the anomaly that we are all witnessing can be eliminated. And that is why, of course, a change in marriage is necessary. As far as the funds are concerned. Because he prefers to be questioned, not here in this Chamber, but elsewhere, even though we do not live in a time that is shining, but the budget for 2009 and 2010 has not shown a drastic reduction or a fall in funds for the cultural field. We have raised them, which has increased significantly, in the area of amateur culture, for example, the budget in 2008 was around 3 million 760 thousand, while this year it is 4 million 400 thousand. And I think it is important to give that it is right that, at a time when we cleave at every corner or at what I would say, coffee, wages, employment, and elsewhere, everyone in a manner of means, there is no reduction in the budget on culture, which is very important for this nation's identity card. And I like to say that, especially before February 8th, because I know that this data is sometimes forgotten too quickly, either way, on purpose or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr. Urh has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mrs. Potrata, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I would like to say some more of my thoughts in the general debate on this law. For me, support for the law is not at all questionable because we are not talking about whether the public fund for cultural activities is yes or no, but we are only adapting it to the legal basis which dictates under the Public Funds Act 2008 that certain conditions must be met so that the organisational structure of the public fund can be established. I have already mentioned that an exception has been made here and can also operate the public fund for cultural activities in the way proposed in the law. And I also have no difficulty in exchanging between the public fund for cultural activities and cultural societies. But what needs to be said is that without production we do not need a public fund for cultural activities. Therefore, it seems essential to me that when we talk about cultural activities, we stress this, this coexistence, the interaction between the public fund and between cultural societies. Therefore, when we discussed the situation of culture in Slovenia on the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, it was necessary to remove the gap that was made on the National Council for Culture, which did not invite autonomous cultural entities to participate when discussing these issues. I have already mentioned the Court of Auditors’ request or comment that cultural society cannot be a direct interlocutor in the financing of local communities. I also have little experience with these relationships between cultural societies, the public and the local community when we allocated funds. And here too, I think, we must not discuss from this point of view that we have the cultural activities of the favored mayor, but elsewhere, where the funding of municipalities is also linked through appropriate spending, to the provision of the basic human right to culture that everyone has, regardless of where they live. However, the fundamental question is how far this fundamental right is being established after the realization of cultural identity, cultural creativity and the right to culture in individual environments. I especially believe that it is not just that we are from a city or that we are from a small congregation. Experience from Maribor that I will be very specific if you look at how much Maribor gives to the individual population for culture, and how much it gives, say, I will be very specific, the congregation of Parents, then it goes in favour of the congregation of Parents. It is calculated according to the size of the congregation. I am aware of the vital importance of the public fund for cultural activities in ensuring this dispersion and operation outside urban areas. In doing so, I must also say that it is very important that, in addition to what we can cover with the expression traditional culture or people's culture, we also cultivate all that Slovenia as a country also prevails. These are urban centers. And that we are not overprivileged of our own relationship or preferences in relation to culture, but that we should leave a hundred flowers in the area of a lover's culture. And we are also aware that the artistic achievements of these cultural societies can be very different, so I think it is so important that we have opened up opportunities to gain the status of society in the public interest. However, what has nothing to do with public interest and culture, nor does it need to be specifically financed from public funds. This should be done through other means of obtaining funds. It also seems particularly important to me to say this, you say how many of these societies there are over 4,000 cultural societies in Slovenia, over 100,000 people working in societies. Lovers are only by membership, by those who perform, so to speak, and would not be so successful if they did not act with them by qualified, highly educated experts. And here again the public fund for amateur activities has an invaluable role to take care of education, professional support and education where it is not possible to count on appropriate formal education through educational verticals as in Slovenia. It is necessary to know, however, that cultural societies in themselves have been quoted by Mr Director at the committee meeting, have prepared some 17,000 different events, and the public fund has added 2,000 more to this. And the public fund can also mediate professional events. Thus, I cannot imagine without the good cohesiveness of these two organisational forms, which is of particular importance to me as advocates of culture, as fundamental human rights, this network of non-governmental cultural societies and the assurance that non-governmentalism, this is the true form of organised civil society, is also retained, because it is the wealth we have from history. It would therefore be difficult to agree to this if I felt that the possibilities for the functioning of the non-governmental sector were being narrowed in any way. Well, at that time the Director of the Public Fund also mentioned the problems with SAZAS at the meeting of the Committee, because we have been seeing you for a long time, the question is who SAZAS can be a competent interlocutor, whom SAZAS recognises as an interlocutor and so on. By not discovering something new now, we know the problem, we have set it up, we have opened it up, the association of cultural societies has also sought an opportunity and offered an opportunity to solve it. However, I must say that, unfortunately, despite the goodwill of the proposal put forward by the SDS, it was not possible to support it and that was clearly stated in the law at that time, for reasons which cannot be followed. I now expect that we will not only preserve and preserve the existing situation, but that things will go in the future in the right direction, which means that we will follow the trend indicated by my fellow Member, Sam Bevk, that the funds for culture will increase in the integrated budget, but that within this we will also increase the means for a lover's culture. If I am looking at data for 2008 and if I am not discussing all zeros of thousands, but I am only going to say, if there were funds earmarked in the budget for a lover's culture, which I can label with number 4, but for the entire culture, the resources that I mark with number 178 were available, then you can see if you recalculate it, about 2.3% is available for a lover's culture. However, if we think precisely from the point of view of those who have been thinking intensely about the direction society should be developing in the future, in order to go in the direction of ensuring greater quality of life, development and not just economic growth, then I advocate and see as an urgent increase in resources in these segments, because they are providing you with creativity, innovation, quality of life, because it is not the least of the last time that we think that working hours will be shorter in a direct job and that a person will have more time for his leisure activities, cultural activity is one of the best choices I can make. All this is why I support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u197	Thank you. Would you like a representative of the government, Madam Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u198	On behalf of my colleagues and colleagues, I thank you for your thoughts on this bill. I continue to lobby for your help in either the balance, budgets and so on. However, this segment is important. This segment must not be compromised; this segment, with its existing cuts in the budget, does not jeopardise those thoughts that may be saying that the crisis is taking place right here in the wrong ways. And this segment cost, as we've heard many times in the past, when it was said recklessly sometimes, maybe somewhere else, about culture as a cost. It is important that, so far, you have been the proponents of the budget, its magnification, so that this budget has different branches and has different new items in the sense that art and culture are increasingly plasticising and that the love culture will not be understood again, which is still yesterday as a factor of precisely defined love activities, such as urban or urban culture. I must stress another segment that is very closely intertwined with the very activities of civil society organisations, which we have identified this year as significantly more serious interlocutors and have greatly increased their funding for their four-year, one-year and other activities. I think that, with the additions and with the proposal of Article 15, paragraph 15, already agreed, as it has been coordinated to date, this law will be able to continue without major obstacles to the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u199	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm opening the application. Mr. Posedel, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u200	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Nice greeting, Madam Minister, President, Director of the Fund! It is rare to hear as much positive debate in this Chamber as there was in this bill. On any side of the debater, he actually welcomed the good law that we will, I am sure, adopt and, on the other hand, also show the quality that actually takes place on the ground that is even more familiar to those who are also actively involved in the dual function as mayors. Therefore, thanks also to the public fund for the work done, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the quality of work depends on people who agree is a very important factor, whether it is then easier to connect with the local community with society or just carry out its mission. Such cases are and also thanks for a good resolution where it is necessary. What I'd like to point out and why I've actually come forward is that it doesn't look like there's only one point to this SAZAS problem. This is also recalled by the members of the coalition and we also appeal to the Minister that we know that the law is being prepared by the Ministry of the Economy, but it is the Government that must submit it as soon as possible. This was also the promise made to deal with the proposal tabled by the SDS and it is right that the Minister of Culture is aware of this fact and that he is actively involved in this. Because what's happening is actually killing for the meals of all societies, not just cultural, including firefighters, tourists and everyone else. At this point, I also join in solving this issue for the benefit of this rich cultural activity, which is, above all, even richer in the country or outside the urban centres and is therefore so valuable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u201	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the proposal for a decision. That the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 19th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Period of the day - firstly, a proposal for a law to supplement the primary school law. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, the Group of 21 Members and Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the text to the representative of the proposed law, Alexander Zorn, for further explanation of the bill. Here you go, Mr. Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Hello, everyone! The international comparison between the student and the teacher of the development and progress organisation shows that Slovenia is better off than in the first three years by the number of pupils and teachers in primary school in the middle of the compared OECD Member States and associated members. The smaller number of pupils per teacher has proven to be more individualised and is in favour of more effective teaching in the departments where children with special needs are included. It is also essential that the first three years of primary school are extremely important for reading literacy. At a larger number of lessons in Slovenian in the nine-year primary school, the result in the field of student literacy in eight-year and nine-year primary school is the same. The Slovenian curriculum in the nine-year primary school contains many additional communication and socialisation objectives in addition to describing them. Since we want to maintain encouraging trends and raise literacy levels compared to more developed countries, we propose the integration of an additional teacher of classrooms into the second and third classes in the middle of the subject's hours. We believe that education will thus contribute to the rise in GDP, as the GDP of the more developed countries is positively linked to the level of readability of citizens. Since they will be teaching two teachers at the same time at half-hours in the first three years, greater individualisation and personalisation of teaching will be possible, which means that each child in the department will receive greater attention, observation of his or her progress and advice. Each child will receive more feedback on his or her knowledge and will be able to improve his or her competence. In particular, this applies to the competences of reading literacy, which is the basis of knowledge and progress in all subjects. In this way, students will cultivate understanding in Slovenian, Hungarian and Italian in national mixed areas, as well as in other subjects in the first three years, mathematics, environmental education and subjects. Therefore, greater individualisation represents a more intensive and in-depth work with an individual, a condition for better student knowledge and higher literacy in both the mother language and the foreign language, an increase in the number of pupils with greater success in all school areas. It is generally known that appropriate early learning of a foreign language enables pupils to gain the competence to communicate in a foreign language in the learning process as well as in adults. Within the EU, there is a rapid increase in the number of countries introducing early foreign language learning at the start of primary education in Spain and Belgium even at the age of three. The introduction of new jobs, which would include an additional teacher in half-hours of education and a foreign language teacher two hours a week, would require around €5 million in 2011, about €20.3 million in 2012 and about €30 million in 2013 and €31 million a year from 2014. The law also constitutes an important anti-crisis measure in its primary objective of quality assurance, as it provides employment for a large number of teachers who would become technological surpluses due to the lower enrolment of students in school. Knowledge of foreign languages has proven to improve the competitive advantages of citizens in finding employment, contributing to better and better employment and to the welfare of the country. We therefore propose that you confirm that our proposal is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u203	Thank you. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Mrs. Alenka Kovšca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u204	Good afternoon, well-known honourable Members and Chairman. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall give the following opinion on the proposed amendment of the law. With the introduction of a nine-year-old, six-year-old children were enrolled in primary school, which was held in kindergartens until then. The Basic School Act provides that half of the hours of schooling are attended by a teacher of preschool children who carries out pre-school training activities. The presence of a teacher in the first grade is intended to ensure an easier transition from kindergarten to school. In the objectives, principles and main solutions of the proposal, the proposal states that in the case of simultaneous teaching of two teachers in the 2nd and 3rd classes, greater individualisation and differentiation of teaching will be possible, and the student will also improve his competences, particularly in the field of reading literacy, with the applicant providing a summary of the results of the international study on the literacy of PIRLS 2006. In this regard, it should be clarified that the direct link between the achievements of pupils in international research and the increased number of professional workers is not identifiable. From international research data such as TIMSS, PISA and others, there is actually a reverse link. In urban settings, schools with a higher number of students in the departments are generally higher in the urban environment, but in urban settings, students’ achievements are on average higher than those in rural settings, where the number of pupils is generally lower than those in the individual teacher. The proposal does not foresee any major financial implications for the state budget, as it considers that due to the reduced number of children enrolled, 625 will be less in five years. The draft law, according to the applicant's statement, also represents an important counter-crisis measure, as it is intended to ensure employment for a large number of teachers who would become technological surpluses due to fewer pupils. On the basis of demographic data, it is envisaged that in the school year 2014/2015 165 000 370 children will be enrolled in primary school, who will be deployed in 8700 departments after the current standards, that is to say 286 sections more than they are currently, and not less than the applicant states. The introduction of another teacher in the 2nd and 3rd classes would mean the additional employment of 900 teachers. For this purpose, an additional EUR 26 million at the annual level should be provided in the State budget. Those resources cannot be secured by an alleged reduction in the number of departments, as stated by the applicant. In the case of the introduction of a two-hour foreign language course during the first period of the primary school, an additional 8 million euro per year should also be provided from the State budget in the three classes. If a proposal for a law were to be implemented, it should also be broken down into the subject, since there is no foreign language teaching in the current subject of the primary school during the first period. Nor is there a curriculum for foreign language in the first, second and third classes, nor are there harmonised curricula for further classes. At the moment, a project is under way at the Institute of Education of the Republic of Slovenia, with which we want to obtain the basis for the systemic arrangements for learning foreign languages from preschool to university level. Systemic arrangements shall take account of the sequence and continuity throughout the vertical axis. In this respect, we support the search for systemic solutions in the future. The proposed additions to the Basic School Act also affect other segments of the implementation of primary school programmes, for example, the weekly obligation of pupils under the compulsory programme, the implementation of primary school programmes in national mixed areas, the implementation of adapted educational programmes and so on. On the basis of the above, we conclude that the proposed additions to the Basic School Act are not systematically acceptable, as they are partial and non-consistent and do not regulate the primary education system in an integrated manner. On the basis of the above, the Government opposes the proposal for a law and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u205	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u206	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are convinced that in this Chamber and also at professional levels, we should speak more broadly about the quality of Slovenian primary education and also about whether the precise indications of individual experts who point out that the nine-year primary school project is completely flawed or, in other words, we support all the approaches that we will contribute to the increase in literacy in Slovenia, since we believe that the gross social product of the more developed countries is positively linked to the level of literacy. Compared to an eight-year-old and nine-year-old elementary school, between the first and fourth grades of the nine-year-old schools, the number of hours of the Slovenian language is 350 hours higher than that of the eighth to the third grade. Interestingly, the result in the field of student literacy in eight years and nine years of primary school is the same. It is true that in cases of simultaneous teaching of two teachers during the first period, higher individualisation and differentiation of teaching are possible, but in the Slovenian People's Party we are convinced that there are problems elsewhere. We therefore believe that it would be good to speak more broadly about the quality of Slovenian primary education. The employment of an additional teacher also increases the very high costs of Slovenian primary education. We certainly support the introduction of foreign language teaching in the first three years of primary school education, but the way of teaching needs to be defined more precisely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u207	Thank you. Mag. Vasja Klavora will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u208	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President! Dear Madam Secretary of State, honourable Members! The novelist wants to amend the basic law by introducing a foreign language into the first three years of primary education and proposing to extend the existing practice of simultaneously teaching a teacher and a teacher of preschool children in the first grade to the second and third classes of the primary school, with the difference that in the second and third classes, a second teacher of the classroom could be taught instead of a teacher. A nice proposal, but the data and assessments carried out in respect of employment provided by the applicant differ significantly from those provided by the Ministry of Education and Sport, and therefore the estimated financial consequences of the proposal are not properly reported or are not comparable to the actual situation and data available to the Ministry. The results of the research and the underlying arguments of the proposer and the ministry in favour of increasing individualisation and thus improving the quality of education differ considerably from one another. We agree that early learning of foreign language plays a very important role in acquiring competences of communication in foreign language, in the learning process and later in adulthood. Studies also show that children are most susceptible to foreign language learning when appropriate approaches in the pre-school and early school periods. However, since there is a very sensitive human period at the same time, the introduction of new additional subjects under the current subject and curriculum could lead to an overburden of students, which would have the exact opposite effect of the desired ones. We therefore believe that there is an urgent need for a system-wide regime for foreign language learning, and for which there is no basis at this time, as the project on the acquisition of foreign languages is still under way. A major intervention in the subject and a curriculum for foreign language in the first three classes should be carried out and the curricula for further classes should be coordinated. In our parliamentary group, we believe that the proposed changes do not include an integrated approach to the existing primary education system. We also believe that the proposed solution would not bring any greater benefits to students, so we do not support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u209	Thank you. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the proposed additions to the Basic School Act are reasonable, justified and necessary. For reasons for adopting the law to be amended, the applicant shall reasonably justify certain needs, such as the smaller number of pupils per teacher, the purpose of allowing greater individualisation is to say more effective teaching in the first few classes of the primary school. More individualisation will certainly ensure more intensive and in-depth work with individual students and, as a result, their better knowledge and reading and literacy in their mother tongue as well as in their foreign language. The essential addition to the law, i.e. the introduction of early foreign language learning in the first, second and third classes of the primary school, is based on all aspects. The possibility of two hours of foreign language per week provided by teachers of foreign languages with appropriate professional qualifications and didactic knowledge for the work and integration of children of such age or, if possible, by teachers of classes who have sufficient knowledge of foreign language and who are able to carry out training in foreign language at this stage with appropriate additional training shall be that of initial introduction of foreign language learning and knowledge of the elements of foreign language. At the same time, teaching two teachers in the first three years will ensure greater individualisation and greater attention to individual students, especially those who need more attention for such and other reasons, more monitoring of their progress, more advice and so on. The urgency of such additions and changes is also confirmed by the international comparisons made, where the ratios between the number of pupils per teacher are more favourable. If I go back to the area of the introduction of foreign languages in the first three classes. It is clear to all of us that early learning of the foreign language is easier and more effective for students, but of course it requires adequate professional skills for teachers. Many European countries have long introduced such a system and have successfully practiced it. It is a pity that the law also does not contain proposals for foreign languages, as there are fewer or more meaningful choices within the entire set of international foreign languages and for future useful ones. I would also like to say that it is also necessary to consider that it will not be only the English language that will be preferred and it would be wise to give the choice of Russian, for example, when, in Austria and Germany, it is reinvigorated and incorporated into primary school programmes, not by chance, but for justified reasons and on the basis of well-prepared studies on the future needs of foreign languages. It also makes sense to take into account other foreign languages, such as Spanish, French, or some other. Unfortunately, we Slovenians are all too inclined sometimes to experiment needlessly, and if I express ourselves metaphorically, to detect hot water, instead of taking into our hands any study already carried out by someone else, and the conclusions that suit us, to put them into our own system or to adapt them to our needs and the specificities of our environment, culture, historical features, and, finally, to the needs of the economy, tourism, etc. Some open questions may be settled subsequently in the case of the adoption of these amendments to the law by means of appropriate sub-laws, regulations and the like. On this occasion, however, I would like to mention that in the Slovenian National Party we propose to consider reintroducing Latin, of course as an optional subject in the final class, in some schools, in regional centres, and in any case to give this opportunity in secondary schools or high schools. As far as the assessment of the financial implications for the state budget is concerned, we need to confirm and accept the applicant's arguments, although I now hear a completely different statement from the Government's representative. It seems to me that these high amounts are greatly exaggerated, given that they can also take this into account within the school's own transfer of teaching staff. But to make it cost, as I've heard, 20, 30 million euros, I think a little too much. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we are concerned about the reduction in the number of children enrolled in Slovenian primary schools and the downward trend until 2014, as I am informed. A slightly better birthrate in 2008 does not yet mean a solution to the risk of such negative trends, but it is a topic of conversation for another time and elsewhere. If I can sum it up. In the Slovenian National Party, we welcome and accept such amendments and additions. At the same time, we also give our suggestions to the representatives of the Ministry of Education regarding the systematic introduction of foreign languages into the primary education system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u211	Thank you. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the views of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u212	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have always been aware of the very important responsibility to change education. That is why all the proposals that go in the direction of thinking about upgrading school space in Slovenia have always seemed extremely important and, like this, we support them, but at the same time we always critically consider which direction the proposals are going or whether the proposals presented by someone are justified. First of all, I would like to comment on the fact that the drafter of this law also states that we are in the years when this international research is being carried out, which speaks and assesses literacy, so that we can assess our school system as one of the very good ones. Because progress in the years that these studies were carried out shows that we are very successful at doing so. The results show that Slovenia is the most successful or among the most successful countries that have made these major progress in this area. In doing so, it should be noted that Slovenia had a very low starting base and was therefore also responsible for creating appropriate measures so much larger. However, when we assess the proposal that Members of the SDS Group are making to improve this area, it is, of course, necessary to conclude from the outset that this is a partial approach. This is an approach that we do not approve of, because we are convinced that after 15 years of the introduction of comprehensive school reform, it takes time for a comprehensive analysis to be carried out and to take a full look at this vertical system and prepare more comprehensive improvement measures. Therefore, in this light, we do not propose a bill by a group of Members because we believe that the proposal is partial, which is why, in fact, the addition of half a teacher to a second and third class of a nine-year-old is introduced without some thorough professional basis. Whether this is the only problem, or whether this is the most important problem, the proposal's proposal does not show. We know that there are certain correlations, which also show that it is not necessary that only the ratio of students and teachers is the criterion that is a condition for poorer results. We know that there are correlations where the results are significantly higher in urban centres, where the general education structure is also significantly higher and the expectations of parents make much more sense for acquiring new skills. Correlation to the fact that the size of the sections in rural areas may be smaller, meaning the student-teacher ratio more favourable, which then shows the lower results on these tests, is in fact talking about the reckless proposal of this proposal. And, of course, a renewed argument that a nine-year-old should be fully looked at, evaluate and prepare professional basis for decisions. The second observation of this proposal is the financial implications. We have already heard here today the position of the Government, which, in fact, by taking into account the demographic characteristics that cannot be seen from the proposal of the applicant, has in fact shown a significant different picture of the financial implications, which means that the applicant was very modest on this financial assessment if I use this word. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are also referring to, which can be understood from the explanation for this law, this is the causal link between GDP and the level of reading literacy based on OECD sources. It is interesting to say here that the SDS actually came to this knowledge very late. He did not come to that knowledge when he was in government. The data available from the Statistics Office of the Republic of Slovenia show that, in fact, the trend of expenditure on formal education in Slovenia from 2005 to 2007 has been in a very significant decline if we only assess the total costs of this table. In 2005, 5.68% of gross domestic product was produced, while 5.21% in 2007. We have already warned in the previous mandate that the share of education in gross social product is declining. Of course, we also pointed out that some of the measures introduced in the previous mandate were also partial and not all the consequences and effects of certain changes were foreseen. The third observation is preposterous. The issue of the introduction of a compulsory foreign language arises. I think that there is no one who would oppose this proposal for some principled reason, because trends and globalisation indicate that foreign language knowledge is necessary and that ensuring a competitive advantage is also strongly linked to this. But it is once again a measure that is to be implemented very quickly, without some professional basis, and, of course, the applicant does not define how to do everything that is necessary. We have heard that there will be a need to change the subject, learn plans, link the first triad with the continuation of the study, which only speaks of the Government following the right path when it implements a project for the systematic learning of foreign languages across the entire vertical, which must also be professionally conceived. If I finish. Liberal democracy emphasises and supports those proposals for a debate on the organisation and improvement of school space, but of course it draws attention to such proposals that are not premeditated and could even lead to negative trends if they were introduced. That is why we will not support this bill because, as a whole, it does not achieve what the proposer might wish to achieve. However, I think that the time and need for the Minister to come before the National Assembly with a comprehensive analysis of the school system, i.e. nine-year-olds, and on the basis of a comprehensive study has also come with amendments which should also be adopted in the school field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u214	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Secretary of State, Members and Members of Parliament! For the second time in this mandate, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group proposes to amend or in this case merely to supplement the Basic School Act. We would rightly ask ourselves why it was possible to amend twice the law, which had the right to justify, even the previous term of office. The previous novel sought to replace the term'standards of knowledge' with the term 'expected results of knowledge', and this appeared to be only a beautiful change, but in fact this change would give the legal basis for the introduction of new curricula, which remained unfulfilled from the previous mandate. This novel has a different nature that is ahead of us. And the interesting thing is that its validity is only due to 2012 because the financial implications of the law that this novelty brings are not realistic with the proposed budget for 2010 and 2011 and the time for the implementation of the law has to be put in place or moved to the future. This is the first problem of this law that we are discussing, after the assurances of everyone in this country, a proposal for a law that is to enter into force in 2012. What year will be what will happen then, and we know. However, we have another reservation on the part of the Social Democrats. The government has announced a new white book on education. The basis for such a White Paper must be a number of analyses on the state of Slovenian education and on the direction in which Slovenian education should go, to achieve the basic objectives of my every modern society, so that the quality of knowledge in compulsory education is as high and appropriate as possible for the continuation of education at the secondary level and later at all levels, of course, in a well-known fact that we advocate lifelong learning. And here a person could also ask himself how such a very diametric opposite of what was introduced in the previous mandate, when it was often said that our school system is too expensive, that the number of pupils per teacher needs to be raised because the OECD data show that the gross domestic product cost of education in Slovenia is higher than in some other countries. This is also from this comparative review provided by the bill's proponents. Of course, the four countries selected here show how much an individual country devotes to education, but at the same time, what is the relationship between adults and children in the classroom. And if I stop in just two cases, for example, in the Republic of Austria and Great Britain, then it is not possible to reach a conclusion that a better result can be linked to a smaller number of pupils per teacher when verifying literacy. Austria has 13.6 students per teacher, and the students have reached 538 points. In Britain there are 19.4 students per teacher, and the result is even one point higher. In order to carry out such a decision, we should have the whole study ahead of us, just as we should have, in order to be able to connect the results of the pupils from Slovenia, before ourselves the whole analysis of the study, all the parameters, because from the present text of the opening part of the law we could draw the wrong conclusion that a nine-year-old in no way means improved education compared to the previous eight-year-old. This is already a fast conclusion, in my opinion, not enough parameters for us to come to such a conclusion without in-depth study and knowledge of all other data. In fact, the bill deals with only two fundamental issues: one is the introduction of the second teacher in the second and third years of the first three years, and the other is the question of the possibility of early learning a foreign language in the first three years. If applicants have as much work as they do in the first place, the question of the benefits of early learning a foreign language does not do much. Social Democrats, however, take any change in the education system as an important novelty, which must be examined from different perspectives. We therefore support the Government's argument in its proposal or opinion that an experimental project is already under way and that an analysis of what should be done to introduce early learning of the foreign language in order to ensure that there are also verticals in the education of the foreign language. Finally, let me point out that the profession considers that the automatic transition of a foreign language teacher who is at the relevant level capable of teaching children of a specific age without additional education and training for children aged 6, 7 and 8 years is not possible, but that this training should be carried out. And then how do you explain recently this opinion by one of the SDS Members that there are too many resources in the budget for teacher education and that only some institutions are making money out of this education and there are no benefits. Early learning of the foreign language - yes, but after we know exactly what early learning of the foreign language means for the weekly burden of students, I stress - the students, what does this mean for the educational vertical in foreign languages for most schools, and how this will then continue with the introduction of the first and second foreign language as a compulsory subject, let's say, or a compulsory subject where we had some concerns for the Social Democrats. This is due to a lack of premeditated proposal, which is adopted by law, because we believe that the low percentage of children also need to be given an open opportunity, but they do not have the talent for foreign languages in order to be affected by their success in primary education and their self-image. There are therefore many questions about foreign language learning, and there are no answers. I'm sorry. What you wrote down is not enough. The other thing is, we're bringing in another teacher. I find it hard to believe that there would be no specific financial implications if we introduced another teacher to make it possible, given the movement of the population of the learning youth, to sort things out. And that's a nice thing to do for teachers. I don't know how she just suddenly showed up, but sometimes she didn't - for example, participate in secular school employees. This would all of a sudden overcome the risk of technological surpluses in the education system. If the population is smaller, it is not possible to simply transfer teachers, which we do not know in which areas this larger number of teachers will appear. Whether it will be the teachers of class or it will be the teachers of the class. It is simply not possible to move them through primary school verticals without consequences or without additional education. And we're back in further education. And I am more convinced, and also my fellow Members, by the Ministry of Education and Sport, which considers that, given the population movement, this would mean the introduction or employment of new teachers before, so that there will be no confusion. I see the great problem with the fact that the employment opportunities of highly educated people are very close when we speak of the need to reduce public sector employment. And this is also one of the anti-crisis measures that the SDS cites and offers. Now we'd be saving here with a bigger number. It will be difficult to convince me that these measures are one way or another or that the law measures for 2012. Initially, when it came into existence, in the first version of the 2011 criteria, it is said at a time when the crisis will probably not be completely overcome. So far, I have only dealt with these issues, which are related to the content of the proposed amendment to the law. Thus, the Basic School Act, the amended bill, amends only one article, with consequences which are temporarily removed, but, according to our opinion, are poorly thought out and in this form and at this time, while we are waiting for a new white book on education and education and on the overall renewal of the school system, we cannot support it, although the things spoken of in the text are also more individualization, more personalization. In my view, the best advantage is to be able to ensure better conditions in those schools with fewer children, where the social capital brought by children and the educational capital that children bring to primary school is not as high as in those environments where these opportunities are offered. Experts now find that six - year - olds who come to the first grade of a nine - year - old appear at a very different level of foreknowledge. They tell me that even a third of the children who have been fully described can be talked about, about thirds who are less described, and those thirds who are not described. In any case, reading literacy and problems will not be avoided and it is likely that it is the task of primary school and compulsory education to ensure that the deficit where they are falls short and ensures that all children are as successful as possible. The problem that I will be dealing with right now is called the problem, which makes it difficult for the drafters of the various laws of the SDS Group to deal with. They often say that their laws would be adopted if others proposed them and we did not want to listen or accept the hands offered. Let me just say that the Group of Members has tabled 29 proposals for laws for which the legislative process has been completed and which, by 21, required a general hearing. A further 16 proposals are under way and for 14 there is a request for a general hearing. When I have reviewed the list of laws, I must say that there are very many of these laws that have a single substantive article, while others are transitional provisions or final provisions. Or that it goes, for example, in as many cases as possible for the same law, which has been applied twice, even three times, but twice for general treatment. That we have one package of laws tabled, for which general treatment is also required, these laws have already been rejected or partially adopted in the previous term and have been shown to be unacceptable. Why am I saying these things? To substantiate how difficult it is for Social Democrats to believe that the SDS party is, in fact, aimed at finding or unanimously seeking a way out of the crisis in its operation in the National Assembly. If you look at just the number of these proposals, then you will see what this means for the work of the National Assembly. Not for us Members who receive the same salary, no matter how many laws we process, but it is simply a time that we spend, when we can also use it to prepare good marriage solutions and not least to seek agreement with them. From all these things, you can also conclude what will be the conduct of the Group of Social Democrats in relation to this law. We do not claim that the substantive things touched by the proposal are such that they are not worth discussing. We argue, however, that the marriage proposal cannot be supported for the reasons already stated and explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Darka Meni.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u216	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! The results of the research have shown that Slovenia is among the most advanced countries in reading literacy, which is certainly contributed by teaching two first-class teachers and early entry to primary school. Since we want to maintain encouraging trends and raise the level of literacy compared to the more developed countries, we propose to include an additional teacher of classrooms in the second and third classes in the middle of the hours of the subject. The inclusion of another teacher or teacher in the second and third classes will allow for greater individualisation, which is a more intensive and in-depth work with the individual, which is a condition for better knowledge and higher literacy, while at the same time linked to greater performance in all school areas. With two teachers or teachers in the class, there is a greater possibility of early detection of both the stronger and weaker areas of the individual. Each child will receive more feedback on his or her knowledge and will be able to improve his or her competence. Better reading literacy also means better final education for citizens. The principle of early learning of the foreign language and the principle of multilingualism are strongly applied in Europe. We therefore propose that, in the first, second and third classes of the primary school, the concept of early foreign language education should include, at least two hours a week, a teacher or teacher of a foreign language or a teacher or teacher of a class who has completed or completed the conditions for teaching a foreign language in a class. It is generally known that as early as possible, teaching a foreign language enables a child to gain the competence to communicate in a foreign language in the learning process and in the adult age. Research shows that children are extremely sensitive to foreign language learning in early childhood. At the same time, the EU is rapidly increasing the number of countries introducing early foreign language learning at the beginning of primary education or even earlier. Knowledge of foreign languages has proven to improve the competitive advantages of citizens in finding employment, contributing to higher and better employment and to the welfare of the country. While the bill currently has financial implications, this does not necessarily mean a net increase in state budget resources, as the number of children enrolled in primary school is decreasing. The law provides quality for its primary purpose, which is also an important counter-crisis measure, by allowing the employment of intellectuals or intellectuals who would become technological surplus due to the smaller enrolment of pupils. The Slovenian Democratic Party supports the proposed law and we estimate that it is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Tadej Slapnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u218	Dear President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The proposed amendment to the Basic School Act is additional proof of how the school system was amended in the previous term. At the time of his term of office, former Minister Zver ensured that "ad hoc" reforms and changes to the school system would not be implemented. He argued, however, that the necessary amendments would only be adopted on the basis of expert discussions and analyses. If actions were not followed by words, it was obvious that the law in the field of education had been adopted. Obviously, the SDS Members and Members of the SDS continue to have a well-established superficial impact on a very sensitive area of primary education. To illustrate the superficiality and nonconsistency of the document that we are discussing. The proposed inclusion of an additional teacher in the second and third classes in the half of the hours of the subject would be comparable to the already established exception in the first class of the nine-year-old. The presence of a teacher in the first grade is intended to ensure an easier transition from kindergarten to school and the elephants to the fact that six-year-olds were involved in the nine-year period, who were previously involved in the preparation for a school in kindergarten. That it makes sense to introduce or include an additional teacher in the second and third classes in half hours of the subject, you justify the applicants with the belief that greater individualisation and personalisation of the teaching due to two teachers and greater literacy, especially reading, are directly linked to individuals. Then you are summarising the findings of international research showing positive trends in literacy, which, according to research, place us above the average of OECD countries, and with the proposed integration of another teacher, this trend of success and progress should continue. However, these same studies, which you refer to, do not identify the direct links between student achievements and the larger number of professional workers. More. The data selected show exactly the opposite. In urban settings, schools are generally larger with a generally higher number of pupils in the departments, while in urban environments students' achievements are on average higher than in rural settings, where the number of pupils is generally smaller than in individual teachers. This is also confirmed by the fact that in international research the most successful Asian countries, where the number of students in the department is relatively high. You are also superficial in defining the financial implications for the state budget as you anticipate a reduction in the number of children enrolled in the next five-year period, fewer departments and fewer jobs. However, projections or demographic data show an increase in the number of children enrolled and consequently an increase in the number of departments and therefore an increase in the number of jobs. The second proposed amendment is the introduction of a foreign language of at least two hours per week during the first period of primary school. We really agree with the proposal, which also follows the commitments of the European Union and the action plan to promote language learning and linguistic diversity. However, in order to achieve the desired results and effects, to increase the efficiency and quality of foreign language schooling, we need to regulate this area systematically across the entire school system from preschool education to university level. However, changes must be supported by professional arguments, from which a thorough debate can be made. The Ministry of the Foundation for the Systemic Arrangement for the Learning of Foreign Languages is already preparing. In the Group of Members, we do not support the amendment of the Basic School Act and we do not believe that it is appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Andrea Richter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Secretary of State. Let me begin with a large opinion: "Not the law on the supplementation of the primary school law. In particular, colleague Majda Potrate also discussed in very detail the arguments that say why the Social Democrats do not support this bill. A bill with three articles, of which I think I could say that one substantive. Let me justify, not least my "no" to this bill, perhaps with three conclusions, thinking. When we listened to the law or union proposals this morning, there was so much sighing, the cry for help, not least of all supernatural forces, that I am calling out to myself now: "God protect us truly, such teachers' advocates, who in explanation state that there will be greater individualisation of teaching, adaptation of methods to the student and greater quality of teaching, as well as of the learned one." How can you, with so much cynicism, without shame or farce, also write in the introductory assessment, quote: "The law is also an important anti-crisis measure in its primary purpose of quality assurance, as it provides employment for a large number of top intellectuals, teachers who would become a technological surplus because of the smaller enrolment of students." At the same time, you are in favour of the third package of anti-crisis measures. And look at him, or let me tell you who would help someone. And in the anti-crisis measure, you also wrote, "with the work of teachers", but then in the opposite direction. In the section on anti-crisis measures of public administration, under the reduction in the volume of wage funds by 2% per year in the public sector as a whole, you stated: "The reduction in the number of employees by sector would be achieved in accordance with the characteristics of the staff structure. Education - a proportional reduction in the number of pupils and students; health care - and not to mention further. What a great duplicity, farce, how can you not last look into all this tomorrow, I will tell my constituents and teachers in the eyes! I really don't know how to explain this to myself. And God protect us from those teachers' advocates who, under the mandate of the Janša government in 2006, also changed the composition of the schools' councils by reducing the number of school workers by 2, despite the fact that 21,000 school workers who signed the petition at the time, and, of course, as representatives of the Group of Democrats, have already shown how you trust teachers in Slovenia. And Mr. Zorn, you are sitting here in our assembly, how could you have escaped the word, I quote, "when the 2010-2011 budget is adopted", when you also proposed "reduction of funds for teacher education"? I think you can only go to the confessional and think about what your proposal was. And God help with really such proposals that appear here in the National Assembly, for once it would be good to see what you are proposing today, when it is possible out of the night or in the morning when the sun shines. Of course, I cannot support such a proposal, and I hope that when you come up with proposals to come up with specific issues that "drink water" and that do not speak one way or another today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Yes, so, Mr. Alexander Zorn, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u222	Your Honor. You've gone too far with the confessional. We understand each other. I'm not going to justify it, but don't say it like that. There might be a lot more to say about sins in confession between us. Another thing to say. I hear we're still talking about the previous government, this government, but I need to tell you the simple truth. Even though the sins of the previous government in the Ministry of School are obvious, let us be able to improve. We hope that this is the right thing to do, and we are talking about this case of this proposal, and we are going to find something in it that might be smart, which I am going to talk about in the end, and leave these party fights aside. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u223	Thank you very much. The word is Brada Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u224	Thank you for your word. I have to say, I've had a feeling right now that we're in one room, not in the National Assembly Hall. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u225	We are in the Hall of the National Assembly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u226	‘ There was so much talk about God and the Confessor, and so on, that I was completely frightened that in the end I would have to use a different language than I was used to. [[...]] But let's put the joke aside. I would also like to say that such a law, which, while not only in 2012, introduces into primary school a new reception, is said to increase the number of teachers and teachers in the first triad and also to increase or facilitate the teaching of foreign language in the first triad, which is both very nice and good, but not to take into account the need to do so, say and write, about EUR 40 million and that it is one of the reasons why we should do so to reduce the number of teachers needed to reduce the number of children enrolled. We have already heard that these data are, of course, wrong, that the colleagues who proposed the law did not verify what demographic data are. Indeed, in 2012 there will be much more children enrolled in the first triad of primary school than are currently enrolled. However, the data is available because in 2012 children born in 2006 will go to school, saying that there is no problem that they would not be able to obtain this data at the Office of Statistics of the Republic of Slovenia. When a law is being drawn up, regardless of who is preparing it, some information needs to be checked before it is written down in a bill. The second thing I'd say is this. At the previous point, we have heard a lot of lamentations on account of how we do not understand that we need to take care of those workers who have 450 euros in salaries in particular, and that this minimum wage should be increased, not to EUR 560 and EUR 562 but to EUR 600, 700, 800. Of course, if we want to raise the minimum wage by that much, it is necessary to demand this from employers on the one hand, and on the other hand the State has to offer a hand by abolishing contributions or taxes on these lowest wages. Interestingly, the net average salary increase of €40 per month for the country will amount to €48 million less. So if the bill's proponents wanted to help people who needed help at this point, they would propose a law that would otherwise reduce budget revenues, as this law increases budget expenditure, and they would propose that an additional 40 euros be raised net wages or 40 euros lower monthly income. We know how much to explain and offer, but when it comes to showing how much we care for young generations, then let us forget that we need to take more care of those who have trouble surviving at all than those who may need even more early learning of foreign language. I must say that reading literacy would certainly be needed by some and should also be improved in older years, as we often see in this room. However, I must say that I find it most perverse that, firstly on Wednesday last week, we discussed the third package of measures in which you propose a reduction in the number of employees in the public sector, especially in education, and here you propose an increase of 900 people. I think that such measures and such proposals need to be considered a little bit. It is true, however, that you offered this law well before you offered a third package of measures, but when you proposed a third package of measures, it would be wise to first read what you proposed about a month earlier in the form of a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Does Franz Jursha have the word? [[No, no, ……]] The word is Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u228	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. So, as we mentioned in the presentation of the Group's position, of course, Comrade Zorn, we wanted to look for what you were trying to warn in your replica. We were looking for the good things that the marriage should bring. And I am the one who seems to me that thinking about the school space is, of course, necessary to make changes. But it is also very important how we identify the necessary changes and then how we introduce them. We cannot change the school space every day, solutions to be adopted at the legal level are expected to be implemented thoughtfully. And here's that proposal you're proposing by introducing a quick, early learning foreign language, one that deserves all the attention. I'm sure he deserves all the attention. In this context, we support those solutions that will do so in a way that will have a beginning and a final solution that will, for example, enable quality learning of the foreign language. We warn, so I myself point out this indiscretion to the end, and of course we would like to point out that we would not then come in such a way as to change the laws in the field of education from month to month, to seek partial solutions that will not be linked and, on the basis of this good desire, to make matters better, of course, to make this space a bad solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Does Guido Kres have the word? Vito Rojej. Mag. Majda Potter. Trembled.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u230	Thank you for your word. It's not enough to add to what I've already said in the introduction. I just want to say my point again. If I spoke only on my own behalf, I would not try to justify why to reject a law that speaks of things that, in substance, a person cannot have problems. But it is simply my view that it is unacceptable practice, not to resent, really unacceptable practice; to propose some unimaginable solution to discuss it, and to stretch us or put us on Prokrust's bed. Because whatever we say, you will turn against us. Either we don't like the opposition's proposals or we don't have an understanding of some things, but in my opinion, you are well aware that now we really don't want to "burn the water" so that we should decide for a long time and for a broad debate on a matter that will begin in 2012, before we know that we are going to undertake analysis of the school system and that we are preparing a new white book and that this solution that they are offering is really unthinkable. I can't say anything but that I regret that we act in this way and that for the marriage you filed yesterday, which has one article itself, today you demand general treatment. What is this other than exploitation - it does not use anything other than the use of business regulations that the opposition undoubtedly has, as well as the coalition, if it wants to use them, but what is not appropriate in this context: it is then to keep the coalition constantly informed of how it does not deal with the right things. I'm sorry, what we were doing today is not the right thing to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Does a representative of the government want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u232	Thank you so much for saying that. While no specific arguments were added to the debate, why certain new solutions should be introduced, since some questions were raised, I would like to explain at least the following. This is the first time that there has been any doubt about the naturality of the data. I think that they are accessible to all and that it can be found that the information presented by the applicant is not accurate. These children are already born and the government's data on more children in school is quite accurate. Secondly, the arguments used for the first solution for an additional teacher in the second and third classes due to an increase in literacy do not hold back international comparisons and studies which show that reading literacy is continuously progressing in Slovenia and that we have just received from the European Community yesterday, within the EU information system for education, a request to clarify the measures by which we achieve that reading literacy continues to progress. It is said that the proposal itself and the argument do not have a specific professional basis. And thirdly, I think it is important to welcome the debate on the introduction of a foreign language in the early hours of teaching, and the ministry is also seriously considering this. Recently, the Expert Council also took note of a partial analysis of the introduction of a foreign language in the early school years and, on the basis of the first analyses and the continuation of research and project, the Ministry will propose an appropriate solution. However, as has been said several times in the debate, this cannot be a partial solution, it must have its own vertical, it must be prepared and trained teachers, it must be prepared curricula and it must also ensure the transition of language instruction from 1st to 9th grade. With regard to the calculations on which it was also submitted to doubt, only the following. Maybe it's possible to calculate back very quickly. These 26 million, 900 teachers, the average cost for a teacher is EUR 28800, it is said that it is not difficult to calculate why the Government has found that an additional EUR 26 million is needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the proposer? Please, Mr. Alexander Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u234	Thank you very much. First of all, I welcome those who have accepted this proposal in good faith. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u235	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u236	and, of course, [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u237	Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u238	I immediately submit that the suspicion that the SDS party cannot, under any circumstances, propose such a thing without having any other bad intentions in the back, is not in my value system. [[...]] I think it's, uh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Therefore, we all prefer to do what needs to be answered. First time. There was an objection that the number of pupils or the number of pupils or the number of pupils is not good for quality, compared to fewer pupils per teacher in the country, and poorer than in a place where more pupils per teacher. The comparison is illogical and uncomparable, for even better results in the city would be if there were fewer students per teacher in the city. That makes perfect sense. That means he can't handle it. Second thing. A holistic approach, to some extent, I agree, of course. But it's at least an attempt, a start of something, and not just to drop a bomb here, but a start, because if we keep waiting for this integrated approach, we won't be waiting for it. The children will grow older and grow older before we meet them - an integrated approach with all these criteria that I have heard today in hundreds. And finally, after all, we've suggested some pretty smart things. Fewer students per teacher - I think that's normal. Learning a foreign language - which is a criterion for the future, because we are only a member of the European Union. And after all, employment. Although the SDS party's package of measures envisaged or proposed a smaller employment in the state administration to cut me down as a client's arrow, I would not forgive the teachers because I feel this huge damage in the country and probably the client here also does not think that they would forgive the graduates because it is simply bad for the country, so this comparison may be somewhat inappropriate. As far as finance is concerned. There are huge differences, so I doubt yours are exaggerated either. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u239	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters who wanted it got their word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, on the basis of paragraph 71 of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I'm guessing there's no occupation. [[...]] [[ad from the bench.]] Is it? [[..]] Excuse me? I request an application for further discussion. The word is Brada Pecan. Please. Five minutes is the time for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u240	Thank you very much. No problem. I will only read what we have written here in one of the chapters of the anti-crisis measures prepared by the SDS party and we have had an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly in this regard. In particular: Under the item Lowering the volume of remuneration by 2% per year in the public sector as a whole, I quote: "The reduction in the number of employees per department would be achieved in accordance with the characteristics of the staffing structure, in brackets. [[e.g. education, proportional reduction in the number of pupils and pupils, health care, reduction in the administrative segment]] . It is very logical, in particular, because I reiterate that counter-crisis measures were offered to the National Assembly at least a month later than this law. So those who disagree with such a dictatorship of anti-crisis measures could be able to get at least the school out of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u241	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item, and I also interrupt the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 6.25 p.m. So we proceed with the vote at 6.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u242	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of their voting facilities. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda - consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Control of the Export of Dual-Use Goods, the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Administrative Procedure Act. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the marriage would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partner Community, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending the Law on the Registration of the Same-Sex Partnership Community is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 26. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the decision has been taken by the National Assembly and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda - first consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the representativeness of trade unions. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the law on the representativeness of trade unions is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u243	Your Honor! We are living in a situation where the union is increasingly aware of problems, when unionists are increasingly aware of the fact that the drink from the Balkan inn, in which the current coalition and government in one year have been responsible for more than half of what was the debt of the former Yugoslavia and caused its collapse and, of course, in such situations, it is crucial that trade unions have the support of their membership and that trust in trade unions is great, since then they are a suitable negotiator, then they are an appropriate partner in the social partnership, which is institutionalised, not only in the Constitution, but also in the laws of the State of Slovenia. For this reason, it is obvious that it is worth supporting the law that we are proposing, leaving this union business more transparent, accessible to the public, accessible to their membership, actually accessible, and thus strengthening trust in trade unions, in line with the old rule: clean accounts, good friends. In Slovenia, we have maintained and strengthened the value of social partnership throughout the period following independence, so that this value has started to break because of rumors, because of the various information they have rounded up in the public, whether they are real or not. For this reason, it is worth maintaining a value that represents one of the constitutional foundations and represents one of the fundamental levers of Slovenian political culture. This is the value of the social partnership, for which even the President of the largest union centre points out that in the previous mandate it has taken place significantly more liquid and better than it does in this mandate. Unfortunately, there are also instances where the current ruling coalition does not even convene talks, and it is obvious that there is a conflict of interest. Because on the one hand it is clear that the transition left is the one who would like to sing Bandiero Rosso with trade unions, and on the other hand it is intertwined with the interests of capital, modern tycoons, and therefore certainly strong unions, which would be strong partners, are not in the real interest. This proves, and therefore, we have, unfortunately, also witnessed considerable opposition earlier by the current ruling coalition to our proposal for a law in the debate. The law, as proposed, is also a European law [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Comparable. [[...]] Several European countries have a legal similar regime. In addition, we note that trade unions operate in the public interest and that in a broader sense, they also implement [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party Victory Jelinčič Plemeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In Slovenia, unions are the extension of the government. They do what the government tells them to do and in the way that the government orders them to do it. This year they gathered for one well orchestrated case in Prešeren’s market, which was rapidly dissolved, disappeared and disappeared. But they showed it as if they wanted something. In fact, what did they want? They didn't want anything. They didn't know what they wanted. But the fact is, of course, the government has supported this matter. The fact is that the public interest that should actually be primarily in unions - it is not! The public interest in us is equal to government interest. It is true that the government coalition won about 50% of the votes in the elections there, but respected gentlemen, whether it is indeed a state interest for trade unions to do as the Government calls them. The money they're collecting is fantastic. That's great! If we take only 200,000 Semolic unionists who pay about one percent of their salary. And if we take 1,000 euros as an average, that's 24 million euros a year. But people can't find out where this money's going, where this money's going? I think it's a lot of crap to make it disappear like that. Gentlemen, of course, cut off a piece of bread. Maybe the Slovenians have to "breathe" first to understand that someone's pulling their noses -- how would they say that even worse? I'd say "by the balls with a naked ass, they're dragged through the nuts." And that is exactly what our trade unions are doing with Slovenian trade unions is perhaps the most exact comparison. It is true that each one decides for himself to fail, just as some who are still in union decide for themselves. I hope that they will "swimp" and at least get out of the unions that collect their money and give them no rights. Because I'm sure the government will not let its parade horse trade union down and vote against this law. But we will support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Is there any other parliamentary group that would like to explain the voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] In his own name, the voice will explain. I'll go straight to the application. I'm sorry to see that there's more than one hand. [[...]] I'm asking you to sign up, we've asked for an explanation of your vote. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u247	Respectable. The sociological specificity, which is not limited only to Slovenia, but is, in fact, characteristic of all former post-communist countries, those who have already gone from or are still in transition, as is the case with Slovenia, is that the so-called transition left is strongly attached to capital, that it is intertwined with the tycoons, that it is in practice defending their interests and in the words of the labour interests. If we transfer this to the Slovenian situation, in a situation where the current ruling coalition in one year owed this poor country more than half the debt of the former Yugoslavia - that is 12.6 billion marks if we convert it into brands, as we then calculated - then it is clear that this debt will have to be paid sometime. It is also more than clear to trade unions that they will pay for the Slovenian economy or as they like to call Slovenian employment. And in such situations, it is even more important that we have strong unions to maintain the value of the social partnership, that they are a strong negotiator who will actually defend the interests of employees also in actions, not just in words, as those who today, unfortunately, oppose this law, but actually use this money in their pocket to finance all our future generations, our children, in order to satisfy the interests of those narrow groups on which they want to build their next political venture. But with this they spend the vitals, that life-style energy mode of Slovenia, saying the development future, [[..]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] which, in practice, can only be given by a healthy economy. [[...]] As this problem emerges, the Slovenian economy, Slovenian employment, and for this reason we need good unions in which it will be for [[..]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote by Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u249	Thank you very much. People who accompany this debate in this room often ask me! "Yeah, what are you doing?" And even today, those who are accompanying the debate in this Chamber on this bill have received a completely wrong impression. In fact, I had a few phone calls when people told me that what you made up, the unions were shutting down or something. This is their impression on the basis of the debate that took place during the morning. That is why I have to say once again very clearly: this article, this law only provides one and a clear definition, that is, the public of union property. The union property, as we know - from where the unions have the property, is mostly from membership. That's the money of the workers and no one else. And it is perfectly normal for these same union members to have public access to information about union property or their property if you wish. It's not like that today. They can pay €8 or €10 and, therefore, we have heard such information in the debate, they can even get an insight into such assets. But why do they have to pay to be able to look at their own belongings? This is nonsense, and only this nonsense, and only this absurdity, this marriage that we have filed, is overturned, and this is what makes this marriage necessary to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Franco Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u251	Thank you, Mr. President. I will vote against this law because the intention of the law itself and also the explanation of this law is very ideological, which was clearly right during today's debate and because the applicant is just a party who would like to get involved in all areas that are not within the competence of politics or of this National Assembly. That is why we are involved in the decision-making of foreign embassies, foreign countries and trade unions. We would, of course, like to open up to our own public or policy the possibility of pressure to influence trade unions, while European practice knows only one behaviour towards trade union movement. And that's respect for his autonomy. I will therefore vote against this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Rudolf Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable. I will vote in favour of this proposal. But why would I vote for it? It's simple. The calculation shows that there are about 500,000 members of the union in Slovenia - so, quickly. And if everyone pays only one euro a month, it's much more, but if it's only one euro, it's six million euros a year. These are the resources worth discussing and amending the law. All we want is for the public, the right members of the union in particular, to have an insight into the balance sheet of this property, which they themselves have created in order for this consumption, the use of these funds to be made public. We do not remove anything and no one, we do not restrict anyone, we do not restrict anyone's rights, we do not interfere with his work, we do not force anyone to change his way of work, no one! We also do not want to hold hands over anyone with this proposal, as has been the case today, against anyone, because we want it to be public, that no one else would hold hands with this property or hide it. We just want those who pay to be the right members of the union to see the balance sheet, who and how their money is spent. Workers pay their membership fees to be represented by trade unions against employers and to be successful in doing so. And so that workers can see the balance without having to pay them, as they must now, if they want to see where the money they pay goes, and these funds are in millions of euros. Where this money goes, that's all we want and nothing else. That is why this law is necessary and I will vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Lucky Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is transparency and transparency of business. I think that workers who pay their membership fees have the right to know how much money is in their vocabulary and how it is available to them. After all, unionists, if you look at people, they haven't changed much in these positions, there's almost no fluctuation, so they're doing well if we can take it from there. And companies that have failed in a row - I don't know a union that would press charges against irresponsible management or a lawsuit against a tycoon because he privatized the company and put money into his own private account. Good companies have failed, for example, the Road, Kolinska, Istrabenz is no longer an Istrabenz today, but it is an OMV and the Primorska Meat and Processing Industry, even from the city from which Mr. Prime Minister comes, it went well in Italy all together! And Mura, and Litostro, which we don't have a long time ago, neither does Tama. And there's something else I'd like to say. None of the unionists in Slovenia filed a complaint against a supervisor. And we know that the supervisory councils are well paid, the supervisory authorities are overpaid, and they make very questionable decisions. Not a single lawsuit has been filed by the unions for unjustifiably paid prizes, and there have been millions of awards. We discussed this in the National Assembly, and none of the unions raised their voices! And it all goes to the detriment of the workers. Workers deserve better legal assistance. And if they have an insight into where their money is, how much money they have at their disposal, they'll also know how powerful they are in union. And these prizes will not be paid for journals, telephones, kilometers of unionists who have a privileged position within an organization. That's what this is about - transparency of trade unions! That's why we're going to support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice, Joseph Jerovšek. Please. I'm asking for a little concentration in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u257	Thank you very much. This is the greatest horror of the current coalition that our workers have received from their representatives of their rights and interests. They want an extension of the situation so that the unions will actually tool in the hands of the government. And by making union assets public, of course, we would do a lot in the right direction. Of course I understand the political interest that you do not want to. Slovenia is in fact the wrong world, especially in the area of trade union organisation, because if Slovenia were a normal world to avoid these transition distortions, then I think Mrs Veronica Juvan Slovenka would have been in my opinion for years. This is the lady who organised a pool of workers in Gorenje, who intimidated the government coalition and these government unions, who gave them no confidence in government unions, exposed them to illegality, but that they quickly consolidated, adapted, replaced a few smaller officials and so on. But, ladies and gentlemen, did Gorenje, the labour pool, mean nothing to you? Did nothing show you that you do not want us to be a normal country, that on the one hand employers, on the other hand unions - well organised unions if you insist on this, it is certainly your suicide, because we have to have unions that will represent workers. Otherwise, we'll have a lot of punches like those in Gorenje, spontaneous. People are gonna get organized, so I'm asking you to be aware of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u258	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. The vote was 26 to 45. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Public Use of Slovenian in the framework of the ordinary procedure. As the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the marriage was inconsistent. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present. It was 67 against no one. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda - first reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law on the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for cultural activities is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 67 votes against 6. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the draft law will therefore be allocated for second reading to the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 1st item of the agenda - first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Basic School Act. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law supplementing the Basic School Act is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members. Please, Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u259	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. So me and our Group of Members believe that it is suitable for further processing, for follow-up. And we do. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u260	May I have peace in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u261	We also look at the matter from another point of view, so we feel that marriage is good and that it needs to be continued. [[..]] Nor is it contrary to our anti-crisis measures, as has already been said in the debate today, to see. We have written in our counter-crisis measures to gradually reduce the number of employees in the public sector and mention education there. It is true that this would increase the number of teachers with university education, but we have already proposed a law last year. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u262	Please listen to me in the hall, please, for a moment of concentration. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u263	Act on rationalisation in the operation of educational and educational institutions. We wrote down and proposed that institutions could join together and have joint management, we would have a joint acquisition. You know how much funding educational and educational institutions are getting. It's millions and tens of millions of dollars. And if only a few percent were saved because only one, but not two, three, or four, would talk to the same supplier. You know that then you can get a significantly more favourable price. And then we'd save a lot more than we'd lose by hiring a few more teachers with university education. At the time you voted against it, but today some have told us that this is not in line with our anti-crisis measures. And how this law is in line with the anti-crisis measures, it is only necessary to remember how we voted and how we behaved a few months ago! And if we don't forget that, then we know that this marriage is good, that it's useful, and that it's saved. At the same time, we must be aware that investments in knowledge cannot be free of charge. But we'd still be saving. It is only necessary to remember how much money can be made available for the purchase, and if we were to rationalise the operation of several institutions and that institutions could have joint management, joint procurement, joint accounting, they could also reduce the number of employees there, but not overnight. Long-term! And we look at the long term, and therefore we say that this law is good and that it must be allowed to go into further action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-01-27-SDZ5-Redna-13.ana.u264	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 13th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much. Good night.
