ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the 16th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Roberto Battelli, Tadej Slapnik, Villa Rezman and Dr. Peter Verlič until 16:00. I invited the President of the Government and the Ministers and Ministers to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 9th and 14th agendas, the Minister of the Interior, Katarina Kresal, at the 19th item of the agenda, and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 9 April 2010. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw the item from the agenda. The Government of the National Assembly proposes to withdraw from the 16th meeting of the National Assembly the proposal for a Health Act at first reading, EPA 945/5. You received a motion for withdrawal by letter dated 15 April 2010. Does the Government's representative want to take the floor as a proponent of the withdrawal? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr France Tsukati has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u2	The Health Act has been preparing for a very long time, at least one year very intensively, and is prepared as it is prepared. We see no point in moving this law to the next session. He can't get away like the government wanted him to. The law, as it is, must be unaltered through the procedure without being replaced; it can only be amended. All who have now taken this law seriously have found that it cannot be amended. It contains chapters which do not form part of this law and which constitute a hypertrophy and transposition of provisions which fall within the labour law and collective agreements or agreements with trade unions. However, the entire chapters are missing as to how to define the public health service network, what tools should the law grant to the Ministry to determine this network. That's not all. Of course, what it is has proved to be very controversial. The law as such cannot be amended in a qualitative manner. If you want the minister to have more free hands to form a law, then let's go with a procedure that can't be returned and can't be returned to the starting point, forward. Let us have a general debate and, as is the case, reject the law. Then the government or the ministry will be able to draw up a new law that will include everything that it deems appropriate and will be able to freely form a comprehensive approach to health care. We object to this moving. It's been going on too long. Let us remove the inappropriate text and leave the Minister and Government free to create a more quality text.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Do other representatives of the parliamentary groups want to speak? I'm guessing they don't want to. That is why I am concluding the debate on the withdrawal proposal and moving on to a decision. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 26. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it that the motion for withdrawal has been adopted. I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda, so I am now voting on the agenda as a whole. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and with an amendment adopted. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 3. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the agenda for the 16th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the Arbitral Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to Prime Minister Borut Pahor to further explain the bill. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor. [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] [[...]] I'm sorry. Procedurally. Have you checked in before? [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] No, then I can't give you my word now, after the government's representative's performance. [[...]] Mr. Pahor, please continue. Then you can ask procedurally, but you didn't report early enough. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u4	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. When I took office as Prime Minister of the Government, I said on behalf of my colleagues and colleagues that there were two tasks ahead of us. In the domestic policy of solving the economic crisis, in the foreign policy of resolving relations with the Republic of Croatia. Without underestimating other tasks or obligations, but since the Government must have a prior view of its tasks, I have determined these two to be essential. At that time, I said to myself that I wanted to be able to say or repeat Churchill's words as soon as possible, that otherwise it was not the end of the crisis, that it was not even the beginning of the crisis, but that it was the end of the beginning. And today I can say justifiably here before this high assembly that it is about the first domestic task, this is the resolution of the economic crisis, perhaps to say that we are at the end of the beginning and that Slovenia is slowly and reliably recovering. And this is as fast as it fell at the start of the crisis. Another time. Today we will deal with the foreign policy homework, and this is the solution to relations with Croatia. When I took over the tasks, I said that I agree with the decision of the previous administration, or the previous government, that because of the predecessors who were not resolved in the Croatian government's documents in negotiations with the European Commission in autumn 2008, I think it was October, the government does not agree to open and close the chapters. With this I have taken over, then most of you did not know, rightly, the dispute has not yet escalated, an extremely difficult task that, after the Government has vetoed some kind of negotiations with the European Union, rather than as harsh and as clear as I have made it as a proposal, we have made it possible to solve Slovenia from this extremely complex situation by solving two problems at a time. And this is to determine a fair way of establishing a fair border between the two countries and to enable the neighbouring country, our eastern neighbours, to continue the journey to the European Union, because it is also our strategic, economic, political and other interest. And what can I say about another assignment? That we did it. I know you'll have some kind of criticism and concerns, but if we hear them, we'll wait for you. And I have this pleasant duty today to remind this high house, Mr President, and the Slovenian public that for the first time in the 18 years before the moment that the National Assembly may have done so, after the Croatian Parliament has already done so, to ratify an agreement setting out a way of resolving the border and thus to eliminate one of the most neurological foreign and domestic issues that, from independence, have burdened both domestic policies of the country in bilateral relations and, of course, the role, image, prestige, the reputation of both countries, also ours, in the international community. It was not acceptable for me to resolve the question of the predecessors simply by establishing a text or an agreement between countries in order to resolve only the question of the predecessors. That was possible. This was proposed by the French Presidency at the outset. I had this choice, I could have made a wrong decision at the time to accept the French Presidency's proposal and give the impression that we have adopted a legal act that would not be anything very binding, which would oblige Croatia to make a statement, unilaterally or multilaterally, so that the documents submitted to the European Commission do not prejudge the setting of the border. But my ambition was greater, and as I said at the outset, this will be the mandate of ambitious decisions, even unpopular ones. And one of these is here. When I proposed the conclusion of the agreement, 95% of Slovenes and Slovenes felt in public opinion polls that the blockade should continue. But I, along with the minister, along with my colleagues, with the government, have come up with a solution that was possible with the assistance of the European Union and the United States of America, both the Presidency of the European Union and the Government in Washington, and I would like to thank you for your help in solving this problem with Croatia. Only briefly, because we do not have much time left, so let us inherit an extremely complex situation in December, but let us make the right decision on the difficult path. In situations where you all expect us to focus exclusively on economic problems, we rightly decide that they cannot be resolved in the long term if we do not resolve the issue of foreign policy, at least as it seemed, issues of conflict with Croatia. How important these conflicts were, they began to manifest themselves when they were no longer just foreign policy, but they had actually become conflicts at the end of human life. And by confusing the crisis, they were actually threatening to become politically secure. During this time, all options had to be debated with our colleagues in Croatia, the situation was very tight and mistrust at a completely low level. It was necessary to obtain the support of the European Commission or the European Union that this is a problem that it is not only something that Slovenia has put on the agenda of European policy because, I will say, by principle, it is blocking Croatia on its way to the European Union. We have also achieved this and have gained the European Union's understanding that it has come to our aid. And it's not just to get rid of the formal pre-trial reservations themselves, it's to solve only the question. And that was the limit. And then it started. And the piano ended in mid-June when Croatia cancelled negotiations under the so-called Rehn2 Agreement. Therefore, it is probably not necessary for the public to specifically explain what is going on. And then came the most dramatic period in relations between countries. There was no external pressure, there was no trust between the countries. At political, economic, other levels, purely human, there has been an absolute exacerbation of relations between the countries and it has all threatened a very claustrophobic future for both nations, for both countries and for the whole region in this part of Europe. And then it was necessary to gather this courage and judgment and ambition and simply take one big step forward. And this is: to offer an offer to neighbouring Croatia, which will be credible and which will require political courage and sobriety and determination on both sides and trust until the last day of signature. From the Trakoscans, on 31 July, when we first sat with President Kosorje, until 4 November 2009, a series of extremely demanding, observable, more or less public talks and exchanges of views and views at the level of the Ministry, at the personal level, at the level of intervention of third countries of the European Union and finally on 4 November the signing of an arbitration agreement. Those who oppose him today have a purely political duty to say what an alternative is. When President Janša and I met before the elections in August, the journalist then asked, if I am not mistaken, whether it was for Slovenia to establish a border between the countries a condition for Croatia's admission to the European Union. And we responded differently. This was not a condition for me, while it was a condition for an interlocutor. And for most Slovenian politics it was a condition. Today we have an agreement that enables us to ratify this document, to commit ourselves and neighbouring Croatia to respect the arbitral tribunal's decision. That an arbitral tribunal, ladies and gentlemen, is something much better than the Hague court, allow me not to say that now in the introduction. Let there be no misjudgment that Slovenia went under the standards of the previous government for concluding an agreement in The Hague at the starting points of the arbitration agreement. Let there be no wrong opinion. We have followed the same principles. Let there be no wrong opinion today that the "kobayagi" arbitration agreement does not have the principle of external justice, but The Hague would bring it, Slovenia would allow territorial contact with open waters, but not this arbitration agreement. Please! What we're going to do in the campaign before the elections, one and the other, is our business. But in this high house we must say what is true: the arbitration agreement sets out the task for the arbitral tribunal to determine the contact of Slovenia with the open sea. This is the task of the arbitral tribunal. We couldn't have done that in The Hague. Only twice was the "ex aequo et bono" principle applied, I had nothing to do with implementing it, but before we go into international details later, I think it's hard for our people to expect them to know what "outi posidetis de facto" means, "outi posidetis de iuris", which means the "ex aequo et bono" principle, which means "junction" and so on. As far as "junction" is concerned, by the way, if we are discussing it, the words "territorial contact" are not in international law, but the word "junction". And we've reached it. Our initiative came into agreement "Rehn 2", which, of course, was quite unacceptable for the Croatian side and therefore initially rejected the continuation of the talks. "Junction" was, not least, the word used in the English original by the Drnovšek-Račan Agreement. If and to the extent that Slovenians believe that it is a fair way to achieve a fair limit, we now have, after 18 years, the first tool that can achieve it, and we are so far away from it that it can achieve it relatively quickly, predictablely and in an acceptable way for both countries. We will get a border marking on land, as long as it remains open after we have accepted 25 June as a cross-border date, we will set it at sea where it has not been, and so that Slovenia will have contact with international waters. We will end a situation that is not favourable to us, because if anyone says we leave this agreement aside and we will negotiate again, you need to know that the situation will be "de facto" as it has been for many years and is unacceptable to us because the situation is worse than that of 25.6. When we decide this thing, we decide a very big thing. We decide to improve our relations with the Republic of Croatia. And I hope that our people have seen the difference in the atmosphere, in the economic, political and not least in the purely human sense, between sharpening and now relaxing these relations. Secondly, after 18 years, we have an agreement that the neighbouring Republic of Croatia has also adopted because it has rightly judged that it is its fundamental interest to join the European Union, which is also our interest, and has therefore accepted it. That there will be no misjudgment here - my view is that under no other circumstances would Croatian politics such as this be accepted. Nor is it a question if in 1996, 1997 we would change the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia because of the Spanish compromise, but we have then assessed that this is necessary in order to continue our journey to Brussels. And that's exactly how it happened on the Croatian side this time. Once again, I say that there will be no misunderstandings, nothing has happened before the elections, when we took responsibility for foreign policy as well, in the starting points of such a way that Slovenia would guarantee a better result than this arbitration agreement guarantees. Nothing. The Black Agreement referred to external justice as a priority principle. And we all know how this principle of "ex aequo et bono" came about. The point I want to conclude is that at the end of this debate, after my brief discussion on such an important issue, there will be still time. Slovenia has a unique opportunity to ratify, due to its small historical window of opportunity, an agreement that is also of great benefit to us. In particular, because it allows Croatia to continue its entry into the European Union, otherwise it would not have signed it, and because of the fact that Croatia enters the European Union, it has used in a smart and prudent way enough that we have reached an agreement at all. This agreement is good for Slovenia, defending vital interests, and the principle of fairness is summed up in a way that no other agreement, I think, would have been. By the way, if we went to The Hague, even if we had "ex aequo et bono", you know that for Croatia the solution was never acceptable entirely beyond international law, according to the recent judgments of the Hague court, we would first set a limit in the middle of the Gulf of Piran and then go into derogations for a little bit. This possibility in the agreement is now very precise as to what solutions may ultimately be in the Gulf of Piran. In any event, the arbitral tribunal must establish contact with the open waters. President, ladies and gentlemen! On this occasion, I would like to thank all those who helped the Slovenian government to come to this solution. I understand that on this path, unfortunately, I had no choice but to choose between two bad solutions, and this is bad from the point of view of national unity: it is that at one point I continue with a consensus that would be consensus, as it were, negative, it is said, consensus that nothing is done, or that I take the initiative, solve the problem together with my colleagues and colleagues and give it to this high assembly and then to people and let them decide definitively. I only hope that we will be able to explain the complex legal issues in the public as a matter of principle enough that all people will understand that we have a remarkable weapon in our hands, not a weapon, but an instrument to solve one of the extremely complicated problems and that the alternative to this is to exacerbate relations of mistrust, some unrest in this area of Europe, something we do not want, but we want to have solved border issues, good relations with neighbours, a good image of Slovenia in the international community, one broad-based political economic scene in this part of Europe, and that the agreement is precisely a step on this path. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u5	I also give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Samuel Žbogar, for a further explanation of the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u6	Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! I would like to say a few words myself, or I would like to present the agreement before you. As the President of the Government said, the arbitration agreement between Slovenia and Croatia for Slovenia is good, so its ratification is in the interest of Slovenia. By means of an arbitration agreement, the State undertakes to resolve the dispute over the maritime border and the land border through ad hoc arbitration. From 1991 to today, there have been several attempts to resolve the border dispute between countries. At this point, I'd like to point out two experiments that have brought it as far as possible. The first experiment is the Drnovšek-Račan agreement, a bilateral attempt to resolve the 2001 dispute, which was initialled, and was later not signed by Croatia. The second attempt was to negotiate a special agreement at the time of the submission of the dispute to third parties, which started in 2007 on the basis of a pale agreement to submit the dispute to the Interstate Court of The Hague. The bilateral negotiations that followed this agreement have not produced fruit, and have enabled further discussions on the intervention of the European Commissioner for Enlargement, which gave the negotiations a new impetus and led to the agreement before you. The arbitration agreement, by its content, in no way departs from the existing principles on which we have sought solutions, and this is to take into account the fairness that the basis for resolving the dispute is the situation on 25 June 1991, both at sea and on land, and that it is the subject of dispute resolution before the third maritime border and the land border. All of this is contained in the arbitration agreement. The agreement also provides that Slovenia and Croatia will establish an arbitral tribunal, consisting of five arbitrators, on the basis of this agreement, each party will also appoint its own representative. Otherwise, the seat of arbitration will be in Brussels. The key articles of the Agreement are, of course, articles which determine the subject of the dispute itself, the law applied and the decisive date. In Article 3 of the Agreement, Slovenia and Croatia shall lay down the task of a court: to establish a border on land and sea to determine the contact of Slovenia with the high seas in order to establish a regime for the use of the relevant maritime areas. Article 4 sets out the law applied to the State, which includes, in addition to the rules and principles of international law, a reference to justice and the principle of good neighbourly relations, to achieve fair and fair decisions, taking into account all relevant circumstances, in particular geographical and all historical circumstances. Article 5 provides for a decisive date, which is 25 June 1991. I would say something about justice, because there will also be a lot of discussion later. The agreement does not explicitly mention the principle of external justice "ex aequo et bono", but the fact that the law applied in its sense defines external justice is descriptive. This is also one of the advantages of arbitration where the parties may, on a case-by-case basis, determine the law applied. Of course, the purpose of the debate was to go before the International Court of Justice in The Hague, as if we were going before arbitration, to use other elements in the decision-making process in addition to international law. This is to take account of the specific situation, relevant, geographical and historical circumstances, of fair and fair decisions to take into account vital interests that we know about Slovenia. We are, of course, confined to the Interstate Court of The Hague by the statute governing the functioning of this Court. That is why we also focused our search for a solution on Article 38, or the "ex aequo et bono" principle. In arbitration we can be a little more flexible and determine the law ourselves, so in this agreement "ex aequo et bono" we have defined descriptively, with all five elements which I have already mentioned several times. I think it prefers to leave to the judges that a principle which does not have judicial practice to determine for itself a content and, in the opinion of foreign international lawyers, eventually resort to ordinary justice, that in an arbitration agreement we have focused on defining the substantive definition of the principles on the basis of which the arbitral tribunal seeks a solution. I think that the President of the Government has already explained that this is the principle of international law and that there have already been judgments on this basis. There's something else I'd like to say about the opinion of the Constitutional Court. In paragraphs 5 and 6, the Constitutional Court has made it quite clear that the arbitration agreement is not inconsistent with the Constitution. The opinion of the Constitutional Court is also binding. At the same time, it must be said that the explanation is extensive and that it must be read as a whole. It is important to note from the Constitutional Court that neither the individual articles relating to the subject matter of the dispute, the law applied and the provision on the final settlement of the dispute nor all those articles together do not conflict with the Constitution. So we can logically conclude that if the arbitral tribunal follows its mandate, which we believe it will, then the court's decision will not be contrary to the Constitution. For this understanding, let us add some of the views or opinions expressed in this regard by the Constitutional Court. One thing is that the arbitral tribunal will determine the course of the border as an original, that the national borders are primarily in the domain of international law and that the Constitutional Court, as a key element in the interpretation of the second section of the Basic Constitutional Charter, respects the rules and principles of international law and that these rules and principles of international law were, as a general rule, binding at a time when Slovenia became an independent and independent State and that the international legal purpose of the Basic Constitutional Charter was, in particular, to demonstrate its commitment to international law in the process of independence. I conclude that the Government hopes that the arbitration agreement will be ratified, as any postponement by decision of Slovenia will only distance itself from its objective of establishing a border between the countries in the disputed areas under an agreement that is favourable to Slovenia. We stress that the preparation of the memorandum is the next major task that awaits us all together. In the memorandum, the Slovenian party intends to present, in addition to the legal argument, all relevant documents and actual exercise of powers for Slovenia, including all historical, economic and other circumstances. In doing so, Slovenia will form a team to defend the case before the arbitral tribunal, which will include top international lawyers on a global scale who have a number of experience in representing countries in international law, including in demilitarisation, disputes. Let me conclude that the agreement for Slovenia is favourable, as it provides and allows the Court to determine the contact of Slovenia with the high seas, taking into account, in addition to international law, fairness and good-neighbourly relations with a view to achieving a fair and just solution, taking into account all relevant circumstances as well as the vital interest of Slovenia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In these introductory presentations, we have heard only a few more arguments, which are why the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will not participate in the debate and decision-making on this agreement and we are predicting obstruction in this item of the agenda. Today, by a simple majority, the National Assembly will decide where the southern border should take place. It will decide on the primary issue of our state sovereignty, and the ruling coalition, contrary to any common sense, has limited the debate on this issue to a minute per Member. This is a total abuse of political power to the detriment of Slovenia, to the detriment of our and future generations. The arbitration agreement is harmful for Slovenia, threatens our status as a maritime state and takes the right to declare sovereign belts in the Adriatic Sea. At best, only the service route from the divided Piran Bay through Croatian waters to the open sea will be possible. In addition to the opposition, more than 90% of the legal profession opposes it. The government has pushed Slovenia into a subordinate position as if Croatia were a member of the European Union and Slovenia was a candidate. The government is also aware of its weaknesses and therefore prevents even the usual parliamentary debate. Some central media have already announced their support for the arbitration agreement in advance and have almost no arguments against it. The government relies on propaganda and media manipulation, so the government's coalition for today's debate, which should be an introduction to confronting arguments before deciding on the referendum, has devoted only a minute to a Member. To discuss the primary issue of Slovenian sovereignty, each Member shall have a few times less time than for the discussion on the establishment of the Municipality of Ankaran. On a proposal from the President of the Government, Mr Pahor, all Slovenian parliamentary parties have reached an agreement to support the call for a follow-up referendum. This is an additional reason to provide citizens and citizens with arguments from both sides in today's debate. We regret the government coalition for this opportunity before the vote in the College of the President of the National Assembly cynically devoted only a minute to the MP. On such a fateful issue, this is an insult to the voters who elected this National Assembly. So keep this minute; taking the word to the opposition only exposes your fear of discussion and expresses your intention to manipulate the referendum campaign. That is why, on behalf of the SDS Group, I am also predicting obstruction under this item on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Procedurally, mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, Government, colleagues and colleagues! In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we also declare obstruction in the debate and also in the vote on the arbitration agreement. There are several reasons for this. The most recent reason is the disproportionate time available to present the views "for" and "against" the arbitration agreement, giving critical opinions a limited and very weak opportunity to debate. The government coalition, i.e. the government and the parliamentary groups, have 110 minutes to praise the agreement and the opposition has less than half of that time, 53 minutes to present its critics; we are talking about 110 minutes to 53 minutes. Is this democratic for you, your esteemed Prime Minister, colleagues and colleagues? For us, unfortunately, this is not democratic, it's not right, it's not fair and it's not fair. For the Slovenian People's Party, this arbitration agreement is harmful and unacceptable. It threatens the most vital element of Slovenian statehood, territorial integrity, as it was on the day of independence, and territorial contact with international waters. The status of Slovenia as a maritime country is also at risk. Today's decision will be fatal. And with the approval of the arbitration agreement, Slovenia will, unfortunately, once again, as has been the history of many times, be a territorial defeat. Take responsibility for this defeat, your respectable colleagues and colleagues from the coalition, alone, and God forgive you this sin. We will not participate in this in the Slovenian People's Party for the good of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Two members of the group announced obstruction. In doing so, I would like to point out to my fellow Members and colleagues that Article 169 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly lays down the procedure for ratifying the international treaty. It states that the ratification of an international treaty shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of this Rules of Procedure which apply to the urgency procedure. Article 144 speaks of the fact that there is no general discussion in the urgent procedure and that the second and third proceedings are held at the same meeting. If there are no amendments to the draft law at third reading, the debate is not possible, but only a presentation of the views of the groups. However, since we have assessed, personally, that this is a subject for which it is important to hold a particular debate, we have decided, for the most part, that all the groups of Members have as many minutes as they have Members of the National Assembly. And this decision has also been made. So, contrary to what has been said, we have set more and no less time than is provided for in the Rules of Procedure. So much for information to you and the general public. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Janji Klasinc to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u12	Dear Mr President, honourable President and members of the Government, distinguished colleague and colleague! At its 34th meeting on 14 April this year, the Committee on Foreign Policy considered the draft law on the ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In its consideration, the Committee took into account the opinion of the Constitutional Court, which stated that the Arbitration Agreement was not inconsistent with Article 4 of the Constitution as regards the second section of the Basic Constitutional Charter on Independence and Independence, as well as the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, which had no comments on the text of the Proposal for a Law on Ratification. The agreement and the opinion of the Constitutional Court were presented by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Samuel Žbogar, who also presented preparations for the composition of the Memorandum. Mr Vincenc Otonik, President of the Commission for International Relations and European Affairs of the Council of State, presented the opinion of the Commission, which supported the bill. The discussion followed with Members and Members. The representatives of the opposition parliamentary groups considered that the arbitration agreement was not good and that it was harmful for Slovenia because it did not provide contact with the open sea and therefore did not support the draft ratification law. They expressed their conviction that the status quo is better than this agreement and that any further procedures relating to ratification and negotiation followed by the Constitutional Court's opinion should be discontinued. They said that if the judgment of the arbitral tribunal is not in accordance with the Constitution, it will only be necessary to amend what the two-thirds majority is required to do. They considered that the consequences of the arbitral tribunal's judgment on Slovenia would be harmful if Slovenia received an increased service route from the Bay of Piran via the Croatian Sea to international waters by losing contact with the open sea. The term "junction" was also problematic. They said that this agreement did not contain the principle of external justice, but if they had decided to resolve the dispute before the International Court of Justice in The Hague, this would have been taken into account. On the contrary, representatives of the coalition parliamentary groups felt that the Arbitration Agreement was good for Slovenia because the current situation for Slovenia was not useful and could have irreparable consequences. They considered that the settlement of the dispute with arbitration was good, since the dispute had existed for many years and the state had tried to solve it bilaterally, but unfortunately so far failed. According to the Arbitration Agreement Coalition, the task of the arbitral tribunal is clear to determine the contact of Slovenia with the high seas, so it is clear that this is not an official route. They agreed that the Court's ruling on both sides would be binding, but expressed their conviction that this was not a transfer of the work of sovereign rights to an international organisation, but rather a settlement of the dispute with the assistance of an arbitral tribunal, so ratification does not require a two-thirds majority. They explained that, under the Statute of the International Court of Justice in The Hague, compliance with the principle of external justice would take place only if agreed unanimously by both parties. In the absence of this agreement, the principle cannot be applied. However, the Arbitration Agreement clearly describes what is covered by the "ex aequo et bono" principle, which also covers specific circumstances, including historical circumstances, which enables Slovenia to contact the open sea. Finally, the Minister of Foreign Affairs further explained that the arbitration agreement in paragraph 3 (b) of Article 3(3) explicitly lays down the task of an arbitral tribunal to determine the contact of Slovenia with the high seas. He explained that the Interstate Court in The Hague had already mentioned the term "junction" in some judgments, all of which provided a clear explanation of this term as an English term for contact with the open sea. The SLS Group has tabled an amendment to Article 4 and an amendment to Article 4a. The amendments were not in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Foreign Affairs and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and were therefore not discussed and voted on. After the discussion, the Committee voted with 10 votes in favour and 7 against. The Committee therefore proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law on the ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia be adopted in the text submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Honourable President of the Government, Ministers and Ministers, representatives of the Government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group of Members, we will vote in favour of ratifying the Arbitration Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Croatia. The opinion of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia is clear. The arbitration agreement itself is not contrary to the Slovenian constitutional regime, but the agreement itself does not determine the course of the state border between the Republics, but it is an act which aims to establish a mechanism for the peaceful resolution of the border dispute. The rules governing the organisation, jurisdiction and functioning of the arbitral tribunal shall also be non-constitutional. The following are the substantive criteria that will serve as the basis for the decision of the arbitration tribunal. According to the Constitutional Court, this is not disputed from the point of view of our Constitution. Based on the conclusions drawn from the content of the Constitutional Court decision, in the DeSUS Group, we agree that the Arbitration Agreement is ratified. There are other reasons for making such a decision. The border dispute between the successors of a formerly common country and for which efforts have not been made at bilateral level to resolve it clearly, without the assistance of a third country, must be definitively resolved in the interests of both countries and in the interests of their citizens. All the unilateral practices, obstacles, delays so far have proved to be harmful to one side or the other. It is high time that the understanding and consensus of the fact that a constructive transition between the two countries by entrusting decision-making to the third is crucial for ending the border issue and continuing good neighbourly relations. The content of the agreement is consistent with our constitutional arrangements. It's been verified. We can view it as beneficial for our country, as it contains all the foundations that guide the judgment in deciding on the principles of justice and international law, taking into account all the relevant circumstances and vital interests of our country. That's why we don't see any objections to his confirmation in front of the National Assembly. Croatia, which has already ratified the agreement, as the European Union and the wider international community are waiting for our move. Don't let that be a step back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u16	Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government. The only interstate, internationally recognised border is certainly and above all the existing interstate border between Slovenian countries and the Kingdom of Hungary at the time of the formation of Yugoslavia, which has never changed with the formation of Yugoslavia. Only with the inclusion of this area in Yugoslavia did Slovenia and Croatia find themselves in the same country, which exercised its sovereignty over this area as an international legal entity. This situation is able to be resolved solely and only by a treaty of succession of the former Yugoslavia. In the present situation, the succession treaty is a much more difficult undertaking that the Government does not hope to pursue. But it would be the only real solution. Arbitration, however, is only a partial solution that blurs or even impedes an integrated real picture. Arbitration would be largely to determine how different situations are, if the current situation needs to be aligned with the original or if it is possible to withstand the newly created situation. The arbitration agreement cannot have prejudiced the arbitral tribunal in its decision-making process solely on the basis of the prevailing situation, but the situation created by the unilateral acts of Croatia before and after 25 June 1991 is contrary to the situation prior to that date when Slovenia has indisputably managed the entire Gulf of Piran and has had direct contact with the open sea. The management of the entire Gulf of Piran and direct contact with the high seas is a right that derives from the legacy of Slovenia, to which it does not have a legal legacy, and neither does Croatia. Whether the Slovenian government and Slovenian leadership are aware of the fact that it represents the fate of Slovenia as a country that has the emphasis - its own sea, which has - I stress - independent access to international waters, and the government decides and stands for the future of Slovenia and cannot be protected by any referendum. The referendum is just a matter of running away from responsibility. Political leadership is about dealing with risk and responsibility, but when it comes to the most difficult, we run from responsibility. Run! In the face of the current dilemma: whether to adopt an Arbitration Agreement in content, as proposed, or not, the Slovenian National Party believes that all the misery of our foreign policy and all the misery of our government has been demonstrated. For the Slovenian National Party, the content of the arbitration agreement is not acceptable and we stress that arbitration is only and only a partial solution, which even blurs out an integrated solution. The solution is an inheritance contract. The only international interstate border legally defined internationally is, I repeat, the interstate border between Slovenian countries and the Kingdom of Hungary at the time of the formation of Yugoslavia. And this one has power, and this one should, if this agreement is already adopted, be recorded in a memorandum. Clearly, it is not possible to face the problems of this government. We're running from responsibility. And the last question of the Slovenian National Party, when the people decide at the referendum, is that the government claims that the crowds [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] They know more about the problem than the Government and its experts who are working on it. [[...]] And the outcome will tell whether or not it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Anderlik. Procedurally, please, Mr. Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. The President, in accordance with Rule 65 of the Rules of Procedure, I announce, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, the obstruction of further discussions at this point and, of course, the vote. A brief explanation of my decision to tell you. In the Slovenian National Party we do not want to participate in such unconstitutional work, in such work, when it is actually about the vital, strategic interests of Slovenia, the Slovenian people. Everything is unconstitutional. The decision that the coalition will practically make such important decisions by a simple majority actually seems unreasonable to me that I will not say another term. Article 86 of the Constitution specifies that the National Assembly shall adopt laws and other decisions and shall ratify international treaties by a majority of the votes of the Members present when a different majority is not established by the Constitution or by law. This Article actually defines the ordinary majority for decision-making as a general rule unless a different majority is specified in a particular case. This is set out in Article 3a, namely, the two-thirds majority for the adoption of an international treaty ratified by the National Assembly and by which the exercise of the work of sovereign rights is transferred to international organisations. Even if I mention the opinion of the Constitutional Court, which has expressed its reservations and has made it quite clear in its opinion that there is a possibility that the arbitration agreement could lead to consequences that would require a change of the Slovenian Constitution. Always, dear colleagues, you swear on the opinion and decisions of the Slovenian Constitutional Court. Now that this is actually an important vital interest and the Constitutional Court has clearly defined the danger of such a decision-making method, we have decided in the Slovenian National Party that such a decision-making method is not acceptable to us and we do not want to participate in such action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I note that the Group of Members has announced obstruction of treatment of the point. However, it must be said that the legal opinion we have obtained does not imply that the title and content of the Arbitration Agreement would transfer part of the sovereign rights of the Republic of Slovenia to an international organisation, as defined by 3a. Article of the Constitution. Since this international agreement does not fall within the exclusive category of international treaties covered by 3a. Article 86 of the Constitution requires that, from a constitutional point of view, an arbitration agreement should be considered to be ratified by law adopted by the National Assembly by a majority of the votes of the Members present. The National Assembly may and should, if so decided, adopt an arbitration agreement only in that manner and in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution and Article 169 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in order to avoid any dilemma or misinformation in this regard. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, as it is said, will be presented by Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u20	Your Honor! There are things that are very simple and can be solved, but there are also things where the two that cannot be agreed on and can take a long time, but there is no agreement and the necessary solutions that would benefit both parties and bring peace and a solution to a problem in the international community as well. It has matured the time in which both sides, both Croatian and Slovenian, speak about governments, think that this case can be resolved in the best possible way, by unifying how this can be done, namely, by entrusting the issue to the international arbitration to identify the issues to which we both agree, so let us define the subject, determine the way in which this arbitration can be carried out, by including the possibility of mediation at a later stage during the procedure, to do so between the countries themselves. It is important for the Liberal Democracy that, at the moment, we can talk about the fact that arbitration has the task of definitively establishing a border on land and at sea, in order to establish the task of contacting Slovenia with the high seas, in order to establish a regime in this area. And this is what gives us the hope that the third, if the two could not agree with each other, for them, for us and for Croatia, will be the most appropriate, but in particular to determine fairly what we ourselves could not do. I believe that the Slovenian public will understand that it is best that this issue be resolved away from the eyes of daily media, daily debates and that the result will follow what the Slovenian side, as I am informed, the Government or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs collects and prepares documentation that will include all relevant arguments for Slovenia to achieve what we all think is most important, namely, a fair border, an exit to the open sea and appropriate regimes. All the promises that were in the past in one way or another, either in one political group or in another, have not produced results. It is therefore right that, now that we also have the assurance that, so to speak, in the Constitutional Court, when we have some uniform views of the legal profession, there is never any question in Slovenia, nor elsewhere, nor is it expected that all decisions and arguments will be uniform, even when it comes to legal issues, but we can say that in this period, since we are discussing this final proposal, which is for many the best that could be prepared after all previous drafts, but for many, of course not. But in the Liberal Democracy, we do not want to miss the opportunity to come up with such a coordinated proposal with the help of the international community and with the cooperation of the international community. Many say that now that we are members of the European Union, when we are members of other international organisations, we do not take advantage of this advantage in relation to Croatia and no longer demand it, but this is simply not the case. It is necessary to address this issue in a fair and equitable manner and to expect the best results. The status quo or failure to resolve this issue is not good for anyone, not for Slovenia, not for Croatia, not for the international community and, of course, within this, not for citizens and citizens of one country or another. We regret to accept this in such an atmosphere, that is, the atmosphere of the obstruction of the three parliamentary groups, but this will not leave us in the belief that we are acting responsibly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of national communities will be presented by Dr Lazslo Göncz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr President, Madam Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I hope that most citizens of the Republic of Slovenia agree in the opinion that the situation should be normalised between the two countries, including the establishment of a border between Slovenia and Croatia, so that cooperation can take place in all areas, especially in municipalities bordering the neighbouring country, without problems in favour of the entire life of citizens of Slovenia. A similar position can also be expressed from the point of view of the Italian and Hungarian national communities, and we have already repeatedly stressed that we support the ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. We are also doing this now in the hope that this will not be detrimental to Slovenian national and territorial interests and we trust the Government or all those responsible that they are and will do everything in their power. We are all well aware that the establishment of a state border where there was no state border in the international sense is more than a complex and sensitive act. Without external intervention to this country at bilateral level, they were not partial. For every citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of political, national, ideological and religious affiliation, it is important, in my view, how the border at sea will be resolved, as we are aware that it is essential to gain territorial contact with Slovenia with the open sea for several reasons. However, other issues are important. Since the legal debate so far on maritime delimitation has already said much, let me stress another important information on the question of delimitation on the Muri River. In the final determination of the State border in the Mure River area, it should be pointed out that in the past, in the second millennium, in an international sense, the state border has not been established between the Prekmur and Medmur regions of today. Therefore, it would be appropriate to take into account the interest of the locals or local communities there. As far as the latter is concerned, the majority of competences shall be at least until the date of 25. 6. 1991 was a Slovenian interest area. Only the cadastral membership of certain areas can be questioned. In doing so, it is necessary to know that, due to the changing of the river Mura and its dead sleeves, such an approach as a possible basis for resolution would be more than controversial and also rather unusual. The question of Prekmur's membership was disputed on the Croatian side in 1919. However, within the then SHS, an important decision has been taken for the entire geographical area of Prekmurje, that is to say, to the Mura River and not to any cadastral border, which must be made from an international point of view in concrete decisions today. After considerable bilateral, i.e. Slovenian and Croatian, the activities of the then interior minister decided because he had these powers that Prekmurje has a single Slovenian administration throughout his territory, which is formally also where the disputed areas are today. The decision of Minister Pribičević does not refer to any exceptions. The decree, created on 2 and 3 September 1919, is extremely important because it was the first time in history that it decided on the administrative membership of the entire Prekmurje. In this regard, no other decisions or decisions have been taken in subsequent decades, including during the Second World War. In view of this, we will support the Arbitration Agreement or ratification in anticipation of the most favourable solution to this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Your Honors are here! Important decisions have been made in this Chamber in all the references of the National Assembly, and so will today. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that the adoption of the draft law on the ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is one of the most important decisions. We have given this proposal our attention and thorough consideration. In doing so, we were led by the national interests of the Republic of Slovenia. We can confidently attach to the Foreign Minister in his claim that the agreement is in the interest of Slovenia. The statement by the President of the Government, who said, "The agreement does not set a limit, but sets out how this border will be definitively determined on a peaceful path." All these years from independence, efforts have been made to resolve the border dispute on both land and sea. Nevertheless, in view of the results achieved, these efforts can only be referred to as an exchange on-the-spot, but today we are before the National Assembly takes an important step towards the objective which, I believe for all of us, is indisputable. We've all known the goal for almost 20 years. However, we often diverged in our search for a way to this end. I will not pay much attention to the history of relations and events, but I would like to highlight just a few actions from the past. The most well-known public is Drnovšek-Račan agreement in 2001, which was not acceptable for Croatia. The public is also more or less well known for some other attempts at the border between the countries, which were not as appropriate as the Drnovšek-Račan agreement. Among these, we refer to the 2005 Briony Agreement between the governments of Presidents Janez Janša and Iv Sanader, which in many ways destroyed the Drnovšek-Račan Agreement, and the agreement between the Presidents of the Governments of Janša and Sanader in Bled 2007, in which some see a principled agreement for the International Court of Justice in The Hague. The social democrats know these events and decisions, but we do not want to engage in the controversy associated with them. After all, we did not have a decisive role to play in these events, unlike some others who had a role to play. The Social Democrats, together with the coalition partners, have committed ourselves to responsible action. We are also determined to take this commitment into account when finalising the border with the Republic of Croatia. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for an Arbitration Agreement Act because we do not renounce sovereignty or autonomy in any way. The rights to lay down the rules of the game are not passed on to the third, but we have reserved this right for ourselves and have also enforced it. The Agreement requires arbitrators to respect international law, justice, good neighbourly relations and relevant circumstances and the solution must be fair to both countries and respect for the situation on 25 June 1991. No unilateral document after that date shall have legal effect, shall bind any party to the dispute and shall in no way prejudice the judgment. And the reason, which is also very important, in the view of the Constitutional Court, is unequivocally that the proposal for a law is not contrary to the Constitution. In this respect, it is worth noting that the agreement does not provide for the arbitral tribunal to determine whether Slovenia has contact with the open sea. The agreement speaks of the arbitral tribunal establishing the contact of Slovenia with the high seas. May I conclude my presentation on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats with the words of our colleague Darje Lovtijar Bebler, expressed on the working body of the mother: "The fact that, in qualitative terms, this arbitration agreement is a surplus of all of the possible agreements that we have reached bilaterally or considered that we have reached with the Croatian country." The fact that the agreement is good is also today's obstruction of the opposition. It is very difficult to vote against such a good agreement. It's easier to leave the hall. The Group of the Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on ratification of the Arbitration Agreement and actively participate in the preparation of a referendum in which we will jointly decide on the fate of today's law on ratification of the Arbitration Agreement. It is time to put an end to the obstacles we have faced for almost two decades in the spirit of good neighbourly relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u26	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, Members and Members of the Government, Dear Fellows and Fellows! Today, 19 April 2010, almost 19 years after the declaration of independence of Slovenia, we will be Members and Members of the National Assembly, at least those who remain in the workplace, finally vote on the ratification and appropriateness of the so-called arbitration agreement establishing the border between Slovenia and neighbouring Croatia. By doing so, we exercise the right and duty entrusted to us in the elections by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. With our vote, we will take responsibility for a decision that will allow, if it is adopted, what is expected of us by the public and is already agreed by the signing between the Slovenian government and Croatia and with the EU, which actively mediated and participated in the formation of this agreement. Today, however, we do not decide on the passage of the interstate border on land and on the sea, nor on the passage or marking of the border, which, despite the basic constitutional documents, has been interpreted differently for 19 years. No, we are today deciding on the ratification of an international agreement that will allow for the initiation of an arbitration procedure with an international body whose composition has been determined equally under the terms and conditions that we have finally written in this document after long negotiations during the European Union's mediation and after an unfortunate one-year standstill. These provisions significantly improve the starting points and all the arrangements previously adopted in the context of the intervention of the third arbitrator, including the 2007 Blej Agreement, which provided for the resolution of the dispute at the Interstate Court in The Hague. A little strangely, highly unconvincing and, above all, intellectually unfairly, the opposition that has turned into obstruction sounds exactly on the part of those who have been willing to resolve the Hague border dispute, although at a declaratory level, with a unilateral and therefore difficult to enforce requirement for the Hague judges to judge in accordance with the principle of so-called external justice. Now this justice, together with special circumstances, is recorded and described in the agreement itself. The agreement even refers to the contact of Slovenia with the open sea as a fact. That the agreement is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and the Constitutional Court, in its opinion, has thus written the Constitutional Court unanimously. Attempts to re-evaluate or interpret this opinion differently would be extremely unworthy. That's why it's better to stick to the facts. And the fact is that the conclusion of the border dispute is in the interest of all, both countries, their citizens, the economies, the expansion of our markets, stability in the region, peace and cooperation, the European quality of life of people at the border and, of course, is in the interest of the credibility and reputation of Slovenia in Europe and in relation to the entire Western Balkans. Anyone who does not wish to do so will find or will invent a thousand and one reason to vote against the agreement. In the arsenal of cheap demagogies and lies, unfortunately, there are many more bullets. Let them, however, take responsibility against history for such dangerous ease. If the agreement failed, we would only keep the current situation, that is the status quo, and we would deny the only possibility that, on a peaceful path, the present situation for Slovenia, especially at sea, would be rectified by international legal confirmation of what is our interpretation of the situation on 25.6.1991. The Group of Ambassadors will therefore support and ratify the Arbitration Agreement and thus contribute to the cessation of long-standing tensions and the sowing of hatred that benefit only partial interests and internal political accounts of some in both countries [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you very much. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Janja Klasinc has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u28	Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! Let me first say something about the opposition's conduct today in the National Assembly. This is clearly a form of internal political struggle and, in my opinion, an irresponsible and unconstitutional action. I would agree with the leader of our parliamentary group that it is primarily that the opposition has no real argument against this arbitration agreement. Since I have already discussed the content of this agreement many times, and since many colleagues and others will also discuss it at today's meeting, I think it is unnecessary to repeat the already well-known arguments. I would like to recall, however, if this agreement is so terribly harmful for this country and it is indeed the opinion of the opponents of the agreement for the benefit of the Croatian State to look at some of the contradictions that have been present for many months on the other side of the border in Croatia. You will probably recall the Commission's call for justice and peace at the Croatian Bulgarian Conference, which called on the Croatian population and the Croatian Parliament not to accept this agreement. Other comments followed, especially the culmination of the professional and organised opposition to this agreement, was the petition of Appel to the Croatian Parliament and to the public presented last November by the most important international legal experts from Croatia, Dr. Ibler, Dr Rudolf and Dr. Banac. The petition represents a number of reasons and would not list all of them, which, in their view, make the arbitration agreement bad for Croatia, not for Slovenia. Because of the expertise of some of the above-mentioned writers, who are undoubtedly respected international legal experts, these reasons are also interesting for today's debate, especially because some of the opponents of this agreement in Slovenia have repeatedly referred to them, these international legal experts, forgetting that a number of prominent lawyers who opposed this arbitration agreement in Slovenia are not even experts in international law. Let us return to these reasons against, and this to, Croatian international lawyers. They say the dispute should, in their view, be resolved by the UN International Court of Justice in The Hague. It's the same attitude that Janez Janša has with us. Another time. The adoption of an arbitration agreement violates, in their view, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea or the Jamaican Convention, as Croatia is supposed to leave the Croatian territorial sea of Slovenia with an arbitration agreement, which is the opposite of what the critics of the Slovenian approach to an arbitration agreement say. Croatia has unnecessarily deviated from the positions already acquired, as Dr. Davor Vidaz says, Croatia has itself withdrawn from the August 2007 Janša-Sanader agreement in Bled, which was agreed by both sides to bring a border dispute before the International Court of Justice in The Hague, as confirmed by Dr. Videz, a magnetogram of the Slovenian government. The petitioners, in particular Dr. Davorin Rudolf, are criticising the arbitration agreement primarily because, I quote, "as the arbitration agreement requires the arbitral tribunal to determine the contact of Slovenia with the open sea". Dr Rudolf also told the Croatian agency Hina that this agreement is worse for Croatia than the Drnovšek-Račan agreement, arguing this with the words: "He is further developing a court decision on this issue, because the court must determine the Slovenian "junction" with the open sea." So, colleagues and colleagues, all the opposition's comments that it doesn't hold, fall into the water. All the findings, in particular the latter, show that Croatia has been under pressure from the European Union to adopt this agreement, as already discussed by the Prime Minister of the Government in the introduction. I think that, above all, we must address these views of Croatian experts today so that any return to the negotiations, as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, would lead both countries back to a dead end, to a state of conflict on land and at sea. We must not forget that before this agreement was concluded, we witnessed almost daily conflicts on both sides, both at the land border with Croatia and in the Gulf of Piran. I'm sure most Slovenians and Croats don't want that state anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Zanoškar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Government, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! The opinion of the DeSUS Group was clearly expressed and clearly stated, and I should also add to this that I am coming from Koroška, where the province is on the edge of the country and is directly linked to the border as it was linked to the state border. If we look through history and effort, then in Koroška we are still aware that we cannot mention the neighbor, but we always have an interest in cultivating good relations and neighbourly relations with our neighbor. As we are discussing today the law on ratification of the arbitration agreement, it also seems very, very important to us in Koroška that we finally arrive at the beginning of the end. By the end of this very pressing issue, which is not in the interests of one country or another, but also questions that place us in the international space in some way or in those with a high civilisation standard. So the ability to solve this issue is on both sides. I am surprised that some who have left this Chamber today do not realize that it is good that this process does not end with today's vote, but that this process is moving forward and that it is becoming increasingly difficult for us to come to a final solution. All those who plead guilty could be told that it is our responsibility. This time it's up to us. And it is right that we are aware of these responsibilities and that we do not tolerate these responsibilities to our craftsmen or later generations, but that we are removing all our knowledge and resolving this issue. In no sense nor in any sense nor in any way does the national question arise, the issue of Slovenia's national interest by ratifying this agreement, but as an arbitral tribunal there is another additional tool to help resolve this issue. I take the unresolved issue between Croatia and Slovenia as a volcano, which we never know when and how it will begin to vomit and overshadow our horizons with its dust. Therefore, it seems to me that it is very important, if not historically, that we decide positively today on the law on an arbitration agreement between the two countries and thus give a green light and continue the procedure in which much effort has been made by this government. All governments have done their best to contribute to this, but none of these governments have reached the point at which we are today. Finally, the opinion of the Dessus Group was expressed. We look forward to giving the green light to the continuation of all this process and the whole process so that we can finally come to a solution that we want both in Croatia and in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word has Roberto Battelli. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you very much. I will support the ratification of the arbitration agreement because there is, in fact, no other choice. After the blockade of Croatia, among other things, this is the only way for Slovenia not to fall completely into what many define as the worst-meaning Balkans: this is the state of some angry conflict that threatens others and destabilizes the wider space. If this agreement is not ratified and it is not accepted at the referendum, we will be exactly put into this state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must also regret to find that the opposition obstructs the debate on this agenda item in the National Assembly. I would dare say that this shows a markedly unstated attitude. If he has objections to the content of this arbitration agreement and, in general, to the proposed way of resolving the border dispute with Croatia, it would be appropriate to draw up all these arguments in the National Assembly. I therefore dare to go a step further and express my conviction that the opposition does not have the right arguments to object to the content of the proposed arbitration agreement. And that's why it's kind of more elegant to leave the scene and then somewhere in front of the TV screens or the sound in the sent-in rooms to listen to what we're going to be talking about here. But it is precisely because I have listened very carefully to the views of the opposition Members and politicians in recent days, and I have not heard any serious arguments about what they think this arbitration agreement is harmful to Slovenia and bad, that these arguments have simply not been said, that is why I want to say today, what are the arguments which I personally and I believe my colleagues in the Group of Social Democrats and in other coalition groups believe that this arbitration agreement is the best solution we have ever had and achieved with the Republic of Croatia and why I am convinced that it is not good to leave this idea of ratifying the law on the arbitration agreement and we would go back, as proposed by the opposition, to the starting point. I would like to express my position or arguments in favour of this arbitration agreement. Look, very briefly, let me say four essential things that this arbitration agreement here indisputably sets out. These are the essential things that Slovenia or, at least so far, should pursue and represent in negotiations with Croatia. First time. At the same time, and this has been all the time required by Slovenia, the border issue on land and sea is resolved. Our view on Slovenia has always been that we must condition this requirement for land and sea borders to be saved in a package if I say ugly. Then, the arbitration agreement sets out the task of the arbitration tribunal to determine the contact of Slovenia with the high seas, it is said that it is not a question of whether Slovenia has contact with the open sea or not, but that Slovenia has, but it is necessary to determine where this contact takes place on the sea. Then it's the third time. It has been said that in recent times the opposition is not satisfied because the arbitration agreement does not explicitly mention the "ex aeque et bono" principle. In this context, let me say that this principle is substantively explained in Article 4 of this Arbitration Agreement, in point B, where it states that the arbitral tribunal will apply international law, justice and the principle of good-neighbourly relations in order to reach a fair and fair decision, taking into account all the relevant circumstances for the decision under points B and C, which I referred to earlier in Article 3. So, all the relevant circumstances. What, though, are the relevant circumstances to be taken into account by the arbitral tribunal? That is what we will say in the memorandum, which we are also committed to preparing under Article 3 of this arbitration agreement. Thus, the memorandum will be the material that Slovenia must very carefully prepare, where it will indicate all historical, environmental, cultural and other traditions and circumstances that are important for the arbitration tribunal to be able to assess the framework on which it actually decides in this dispute. And then, as the 4th very important point, which we have also successfully achieved by placing in this arbitration agreement, it is that no unilateral document or action, it is said, is a document or an act, of any kind after 25 June 1991, has no legal significance and does not prejudge a verdict. So we also returned to the negotiating text on 25 June 1991. Why do I say "return"? Let me remind you, before Slovenia signed the Briony Declaration on the avoidance of incidents in 2005, the then government came to the Committee on Foreign Policy of the National Assembly with a text that did not contain the date of 25 June 1991. This can be demonstrated by the materials which came at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy at that time. At that time, two opposition Members, Comrade Školč and I, demanded that this date be explicitly entered into the text of the Briony Declaration on 25 June 1991. It is said that the previous government did not consider it important to make that text of the Briony Declaration a requirement that all unilateral acts be without legal effect after 25 June 1991. It was only because of the opposition at the time that this came into the text of the Briony Declaration. As I have said before, the opposition says that the principle of "ex aequo et bono" is not explicitly stated in the arbitration agreement, but, of course, forget that, in the starting points of the previous government for negotiations in the mixed commission of Croatia and Slovenia on the 2007 border dispute, the former government, which today is so tarted that there is no literal position of "ex aequo et bono" introduced in this text, did not at that time mention in the starting point the principle of "ex aequo et bono" in the negotiating group that the principle of "ex aequo et bono" could be mentioned as a fundamental condition of the principle of "ex aequo et bono" and, in the text we read in Youth and signed as then foreign minister of Dr Dimitrij Rupel, it follows that the principle of "ex aequo et bono" could be terminated as a tactical move to withdraw from the negotiations if the Slovenian parties did not agree on that this point. I find the principle of "ex aequo et bono" not explicitly stated in this wording when the previous government in 2007 did not even consider putting this principle as a condition for the continuation of negotiations, but this was understood as an exit from negotiating acts. Of all the things I have said and understand, the only problem for the opposition is that they are aware that this agreement is good, but they do not like that this agreement can be implemented, implemented under this Government. That's all the content and all the core. Of course, I will support this arbitration agreement and I think the arguments I have made are at least personally convincing to me. As it is said, I have not yet heard any serious arguments as to why this arbitration agreement is bad and whether we can hope and wish at all, we want it, but hope for less so that we can come to a better agreement later. There's something else. This arbitration agreement was concluded under the auspices of the EU. I think that this is also some additional quality of this arbitration agreement and, of course, also a greater commitment to Croatia, because Croatia is the one that is being put on the path of integration into the European Union. And another embarrassment is probably our opposition, which is, speaking of the European dimension, the fact that it is part of the European People's Party, which, as we well know, strongly supports the conclusion and implementation of this arbitration agreement at European level. So, our colleagues, the opposition Members, are in some considerable trouble, but let's leave them now, I think it's inconvenient that they are not trying to find with us today and to represent all the reasons, but also the bad ones, if they have them to convince the public that this agreement is harmful and is not good, as they advocate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I also regret that today the opposition has decided to obstruct itself, because in this way it will not be able to replicate certain objections that are part of the debate, as there has been an intense exchange of views on this agreement in recent years. We have heard every time the opposition made an argument that, in my opinion, was not sustainable, there was some embarrassment from the opposition, which no longer had the right answers, and it found itself increasingly finding some motives that were not convincing. Among these, for example, the most trending password has now become the service path to be reached by this agreement. As far as I know, there is no such word in the agreement itself. It is only about the contact of Slovenia with the open sea. I repeat: contact of Slovenia with the open sea. If someone interprets it as a service journey, it is primarily his problem and the problem of those who would probably not achieve it significantly in their mandate. On the contrary, we would have achieved less. We wouldn't have made it that clear on a business trip. But let's calm them down. The official route or corridors or some indirect link to the high seas are provided in all international legal instruments dealing with maritime law. And as you know, the Convention on the Law of the Sea provides for all countries, including those deprived of their geographical position, free navigation to the open sea. Slovenia would have had this in any case. And let's not forget, the leader of the opposition has to be made clear that when we talk about corridors when we talk about these connections, it is important to clarify that Slovenia is using two corridors to access international waters. Sailing into the port of Koper and from the port of Koper is carried out through these two established and defined corridors. One corridor, regardless of the outcome of our negotiations with Croatia, goes through Italian territorial waters. And in any case, we will always depend on the assurances we have under international conventions. But with regard to Croatia there is a talk about another thing, it is about direct contact with international waters. How do you do that? Of course, this will be a difficult task, an interesting task, a major international challenge for international arbitrators. But the fact is, we've never been as close to a solution as we are before. Neither does Drnovšek-Račan. At the time, the agreement was initialled, but the Croatian side did not ratify it. This time Croatia has done its job and ratified it. And it's all on our table. If we ratify this, we will actually be very close to resolving a 19-year-old dispute and has one extremely irrational side. It is not possible to seek a solution only in international law, in historical arguments. There'll be plenty of them. Now we have the final chance to get it into a memorandum, just as the other side is likely to do, we also have the opportunity to get everything before 25. 6. 1991. Everything that happened then doesn't work. What happened before will be part of the argument that both sides will try to make the most of it. The arguments, if they are solid, if they are convincing, if they are justified, will certainly refer the arbitrators to a just resolution of the border issue, in particular the one at sea. And not just at sea. This is a final marking of the border, which is otherwise laid down by the basic constitutional charter, but is not fully indicated because the interpretations of its course were different. Now is the opportunity to finally explain where the border on land and on the sea takes place. It's in everyone's interest. I come from Slovenian Istria, i.e. from the border area. I am well aware of the Istrian situation and I assure you that it is in the interest of the vast majority of people living there to finally raise that border to some European level of communication between people. But let's not forget that 19 years ago, we put a border in a territory where there were never any borders where people were communicating, they were friends, they were related. There is no such link between borderline people, as it is along the Slovenian-Croatian border, especially in Istria. The locals, those who feel that particular multiculturalism, which are aware of the wealth arising from this multiculturalism, are looking forward to the solutions, are looking forward to the end of this black chapter of Slovenian-Croatian relations, which, of course, has not so far contributed to the reputation and political and negotiating power of Slovenia in the Western Balkans. We have now become ambitious, we have taken on a role and we have also been assigned an interesting integration role in the Western Balkans. The Western Balkans are not only Croatia, but also Bosnia, is Montenegro, is Serbia. Look what's going on in there! We'll be out of line soon. Montenegro and Croatia have already agreed to resolve the dispute in an international court. These deals are a long way from here. And this applies to other borders. However, Slovenia is expected to set an example that will even allow and offer an alternative to the Hague Court of Arbitration, which is adapted to the specific circumstances and specific interests of the two countries in the dispute. Here in this arbitration agreement, and here I fully agree with the President of the Government, this agreement would not be adopted by Croatia if it did not have its interest to join the European Union. And that's the key fact that makes it possible to continue in this direction. Croatia, we also know who opposes this agreement and this synergy against our opposition, who left this Chamber, and part of the Croatian opposition, the most extreme nationalist movements, including former negotiator Dr Rudolf, is very eloquent. It is an interesting non-essential coalition to oppose this agreement. But it's the one that isn't. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] The coalition against the agreement proves that the agreement is good and that it is worth supporting. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is "Miran Potch." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you very much. There are issues in life and also in deciding on political issues and there is a time when a decision is needed. If a decision is not made, it means you stay put and don't solve the problem. Today we are in the National Assembly before this, and I will support this that we begin to solve the problem because it is 19 years since we have stepped on the ground and are constantly looking for excuses not to approach the solution, long enough. And the proposal for an agreement that is prepared is of sufficient quality to allow it to build confidence in the arbitration tribunal, which will adopt, in accordance with our interests, a fair, fair border on land and also Slovenia's revenues to international waters to the open sea. I have not heard serious arguments so far that Slovenia does not have sufficient grounds to confirm and adopt this agreement with confidence in international arbitration. The discussions on what the cut-off date should be are superfluous because we have written them in our constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia and the borders are valid where they were on day 25. 6. where they were not, the actual moods. And we claim, and we are right that the Bay of Piranhas was under our jurisdiction and interference and that this fact will also have to play an appropriate role in the international arbitration. If we do not take this decision, then the decision will not be of benefit to Slovenia. It will mean a continuation of the situation in which we will have to decide whether or not we have an interest in Croatia being gradually integrated into the European Union. I think that it is our interest, in addition to Croatia, to settle border issues to improve economic, political and other relations, but not to take advantage of us again and again in Croatia, and sometimes in us too, of the opportunity for conflicts between the two countries to become potential. I think now is our chance to open a new chapter. The government has successfully led to the signing of an arbitration agreement to be ratified today. And all together, I hope that this will be preserved, we have the wealth, not the fear that the content and good solutions of this arbitration agreement can also be explained to citizens and citizens who will decide on it at the referendum. I am sorry that all Slovenian policy is not capable of a common agreement to reject, on empty arguments or without arguments, the approval and ratification of the arbitration agreement and, in fact, internal policy issues and its interest in taking over power are linked to the long-term foreign policy interests of the Slovenian State. I'll support the arbitration agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! In my view, this time it has matured to determine, after almost 20 years under an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the arbitral tribunal determines the course of the border between the countries on land and the sea and the contact of Slovenia with the open sea and not just the service path, as the President of the largest opposition party, Janez Janša, said at the meeting of the Home Committee on Foreign Policy, and of course lays down a regime for the use of the relevant maritime areas. The two most serious attempts so far, here I am thinking of the Drnovšek-Račan agreement in 2001 and the Blej agreement between Janša and Sanader in 2007, have not produced fruit and have unfortunately failed. The starting point for the new negotiations between the countries was the decision of the Slovenian Government on 29 September 2009, which identified the starting points for the conclusion of the resolution agreement and confirmed by the State-level Foreign Policy Committee the following day. On 4 November, the Agreement was signed by the Presidents of both governments in Stockholm. Croatia ratified the agreement at the end of last year. Despite the bilateral desire to ratify the agreement by the end of 2009, Slovenia took some time and also gave it to the Constitutional Court, which found that the agreement was not contrary to the Constitution. The Agreement also provides that the arbitral tribunal shall apply the rules and principles of international law, justice and the principle of good-neighbourly relations to achieve a fair and fair decision, taking into account all relevant circumstances, which of course includes historical facts. Historical facts and traditions are important. The fact is that cities and settlements on our side throughout history have been controlled by the Gulf of Piran because there were virtually no settlements on the other side of the bay. There are other historical circumstances, fishing rights, salt borders, shipping tradition, police and administrative, biological and ecological supervision, centuries old name of the Gulf, borders of the church authorities and so on. It is also set a date or reference to the situation on 25 June 1991, and therefore all subsequent documents and actions that unilaterally prejudice the border do not come into force. The fact is that Prime Minister Borut Pahor and Foreign Minister Samuel Žbogar attended regular meetings of the Committee on Foreign Policy at the end of 2008 and informed the National Assembly about all matters relating to relations between Slovenia and Croatia. In order to refresh the memory of the information from the previous term. Following the meeting between President Janša and Sanader in July 2007, the Foreign Policy Committee on relations with Croatia did not meet until spring 2008. The fact that the current opposition does not want to discuss in Parliament is also eloquent enough. The three opposition opposition groups have 53 minutes at their disposal, and if they are unable to make their views clear at this time, then they can no longer have 10 hours of debate to help them. I'll support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The word has been given by Dejan Levanic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I am truly sorry today that there can be no such debate between the opposition and the coalition, not because there has been no opportunity in the past to make all the arguments for and against and all the historical facts and efforts of the vast majority of governments to reach the final solution to the border, many agreements, many negotiations. However, in my opinion, this arbitration agreement that we have on the table is good. It is good because it has some of the key provisions required by all policies in the past - both the opposition and the coalition - these are three key points: the flow of the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on land and sea, the contact of Slovenia with the high seas and the regime for the use of the relevant maritime areas. This means that the arbitration agreement already provides for the contact of Slovenia with the high seas, which was ultimately the requirement of all political options. Furthermore, the arbitration agreement will have to take into account the rules and principles of international law and determine the contact of Slovenia with the high seas of international law, justice, the principle of good neighbourly relations to achieve a fair and fair decision, taking into account all relevant circumstances, and last but not least, perhaps the most important, and where the policy also had much to say, it is that no unilateral document or action by any party after 25 June 1991 has a legal basis. We have reached all the key requirements, we have included them in the arbitration agreement, but this is still not enough for policy today. If the opposition today were truly convinced that this arbitration agreement was bad, then it would remain in the National Assembly and vote against the arbitration agreement. In fact, in my opinion, she again wanted to convey to the public some fear of uncertainty as to how much land we would lose, what would happen when the arbitral tribunal ruled and so on. Nobody knows that today. Our key starting point was to put in the arbitration agreement the key issues that Slovenian policy has demanded all these years. And it's not true that we would be in any hurry at this point. We've been solving this issue for 19 years, and it's high time we solved it. All the way to the end. The great measure of populism in the "ex aeque et bono" principle was offered by the opposition that this must be included in the arbitration agreement. My dear colleagues! In the past, Prime Minister Sanader and Janš did not even mention that this principle would be included in the agreement signed at Bled. So much for this duality and what should be in it and what is not included today in the arbitration agreement. I will gladly support him, and I hope that we will come to a solution as soon as possible to the border that has plagued both countries for so long. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr President-in-Office. Greetings to the Minister and to the Minister! I must say that in life, when a problem is a conflict, it is necessary to resolve it, not to sweep it under the rug and delay it into some undecided future. I will support the arbitration agreement myself, because it is a good basis for us to come to a solution and also legally acquire Slovenia and fortify everything it has ever had and belongs to it in that area. In the first place, I mean the contact of Slovenia with the open sea is not essentially an arbitration agreement that defines this. We're not talking about whether we have it or not, but we need to figure out where we have it. Some of the colleagues and colleagues who are obviously not with us today have also been disputed that we are not deciding on an arbitration agreement with 2/3. I must say that today, those who left the hall had an excellent opportunity to make a 100% decision, and then let everyone decide as they see fit and right. I will press for this conflict that has plagued two neighbouring friendly countries for decades to finally resolve to act as normal neighbours. Above all, it seems to me that for both countries, and especially for Slovenia, it will bring many benefits mainly in human contacts and relations, as well as in the economic field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u46	In 46 seconds it is possible to say the essence of why I will gladly and proudly support this arbitration agreement. The fundamental reason lies in the fact that since 4 November 2009, when an arbitration agreement was signed, both politicians have succeeded in bringing this topic out of a tense internal political struggle. This continues today with the obstruction of the opposition parties, but I think that the signing of the arbitration agreement itself has brought added value to the fact that we are facing together with the neighbouring friendly country of Croatia today those issues that are important for our common future, not only the future of the two countries and nations, but also the entire area of the Western Balkans and the prospects for our future cooperation. Therefore, topics that must unite us and that promise to bring a brighter future to the nations.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The text is by Mr László Göncz. [[He's cancelling the debate.]] Mr. Anton Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u48	Your Honor! I am truly sorry that the representatives of the three parliamentary groups have left this meeting. And I am even more sorry that, if there was a reason, the reason certainly was not the decision that a Member could be debated after a minute. This is the worst decision and it is certainly contrary to the Rules of Procedure, because if you have decided to limit the debate, then you could limit it by having a Member for at least 5 minutes. Whoever remembered that, I don't remember her very well. Of course, this point did not need to be discussed, not at all, because it was an arbitration agreement, but if you have already decided, then you should have done so under another Article of the Rules of Procedure. For the second time. But I believe it wasn't the cause of this absence. I think that doing this is actually a cowardly act. On the one hand, there is no text, how else, more effective to resolve this issue, and on the other hand, to arouse some fear, some uncertainty that will arise and what Slovenia will lose. This is from the point of view of the authorities, where both the position and the opposition and the entire National Assembly belong, we have power, irresponsible work towards citizens and citizens, after all, to those who expect the power to be decided by Parliament on their behalf, so they have sent us here. Yes, even a referendum is probably just some alibi, but if it was an agreement of all parties, it's probably what needs to be supported. It is not logical, however, because they are in this agreement - but today we are discussing the law on ratification of the agreement, but not the agreement itself, because neither can we supplement or amend it, so it is clear in this sense that it is something else. I am sure that when you have the opportunity to mature a certain situation, it should be such an uncertain future or a result, although I think that the result is predictable in this case, you should simply decide, in the government or in Parliament, so I will support this proposal for a law on ratification of the agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Would you like a word from the government? Mr. Minister Samuel Zbogar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. First, I would simply say, see if the two neighbours can't agree on where the border is, and if one of them has the feeling that the others are constantly kicking at his side, and this neighbor doesn't want to talk about setting a border together, then they just have to go to court. And if you both agree that in the court of this border movement in recent years it has not been possible to use as evidence, and if you agree that in addition to law you can apply a number of principles that go all the way to your benefit, and another of the judges is your lawyer, then I think you can go to court very calm and peaceful souls. I think it's most important that you're well prepared in court, that you have good evidence and that you have good defence. And I think we have it all. I would say something about the service path that somehow now appears as what the court is supposed to assign to Slovenia. This is certainly misleading, because Slovenia has the right to an unhindered transition and does not have to go to court. Judges would not deal with this because this goes automatically under international law and we do not need any decisions, no arbitration courts, no rules and no costs. This is how the judges know this and will decide on the contact as set out in this arbitration agreement. The contact in the various judgments of the Interstate Court and other courts has so far been defined as a contact between two watercourses or a contact between several countries at sea. Also in the Drnovšek-Račan agreement there is such a contact as we have, defined not only as the contact of Slovenia with the open sea in the corridor, but also the border between Croatia and Italy is defined as a contact in the Drnovšek-Račan agreement. So that's what we're looking for. In addition, the Court does not decide on the right of contact, which is already laid down in Article 3 in the original agreement itself. The Court will decide on the course of contact, the delimitation of contact. Something else about "ex aequo et bono", which is the established principle in Slovenia. First of all, I would like to remind you, as Mrs Beblereva has already mentioned, that in 2007 and 2008, the starting points for negotiations with Croatia have been defined as tactical moves. And also that it should primarily be decided by "ex aequo et bono", not entirely. I would also remind you that Croatia has never agreed to this principle. By applying a principle that the other side cannot agree to, you also do not benefit in any way. Also, foreign international lawyers, known by international lawyers, with experience in delimitation disputes, see no value in incorporating this principle into the agreement itself, because they say that the principle, for the first time, is undefined, that there is no case law with this principle and that there are also estimates that decisions, decisions of the interstate court in the past would not be different if this principle were also followed. And that would essentially be the real cat in a jacket that would be sent to the court and left to the judges to define for themselves what that principle is, "ex aequo et bono". I think that we have come to the arbitration agreement in the opposite and correct terms, that we have determined ourselves what the content of this fairness is, on the basis of which we want the Court to decide which principles are on the basis of which we wish, in addition to international law, to be respected by the courts and not to leave the judges and their imaginations or their decision that this principle, because it is so undeclared, will not be taken into account and returned to international law at all. No! No! We have defined what those principles are, and they are also very clearly written. They are, however, to decide on the basis of fairness, that the solution must be fair and fair, that they must take into account the vital interest - and we know precisely and will define our vital interests in the memorandum to be sent - in order to take account of the relevant circumstances, the historical, geographical and other circumstances relevant to the decision-making of this case are true, and of course also to take good neighbourly relations into account. Thus, the mandate of the arbitral tribunal is fully clear. The arbitral tribunal cannot take any decision that would not be fair, which would not be fair, which would be criminal to Slovenia and which would not take these vital interests into account, as we will define them. So there is nothing in this agreement that would make it impossible for Slovenia to judge as it wishes. On the contrary, several elements of the arbitration agreement lead the arbitral tribunal to a decision in favour of Slovenia. So we can go quietly to this court and let the decision be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u52	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Governments come and go, coalitions come together and fall apart. The political majority today, who will decide on this agreement, will come and go. If it can fly off for other reasons tomorrow, please know one thing. That we have been together with one of the boldest and for the future of us, our children, our neighbours, the whole of Europe of important projects and that we have done it very well and we can be proud of the work done.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Government. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. [[...]] I do not see a desire, so, my fellow Members, Members of Parliament and Members of the Government, I propose that we move to a decision on the bill. In the second reading, no amendments were adopted to the draft law, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There were 48 votes in favour and 48 votes in favour, [[....]] [[Let's hear it.]] 48 voted in favour and I note that the law has been adopted. [[...]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND ENTITIES However, I suggest we wait a minute for the opposition Members and Members to join us, which will also ask the President of the Government a question. Dear colleagues, I'm moving on to 1. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - IT'S ON THE QUESTIONS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written submissions from the forty-four questions sent to me within the deadline of business. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Colleagues and colleagues [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. [[...]] The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the questions within a maximum of five minutes, if the question is raised by the major ministers, all shall have five minutes to answer them together. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who has asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding the item, the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, apologized for today, which will attend the meeting after the extraordinary conference on the consequences of the volcanic dust cloud in air, beginning at 3 p.m. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. Procedurally, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. President-in-Office. I suggest you stop because the President of the Government is gone and it will be difficult to ask the first three questions to the President of the Government now, because there is no President. Now, we can't have a video conference on the phone, because there is an urgent physical presence. I regret to invite you to suspend the meeting for a certain period of time, so that the Government, if it is the Government, and the President of the Government, will at least be able to deploy, so that we can work normally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. Mr President, the Government is monitoring our work. I would only stop until this moment when he comes into the hall and I believe that this will be in the shortest possible time, so please allow - well, come on - let Mr Tanko wait without the announcement of the time. Prime Minister Borut Pahor is on his way. Would you like to ask me another question? Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I don't know why, but today we didn't get an overview of the unanswered written questions. I would like to remind you, however, that this was specifically asked in one of the colleges, and the Government then assured that this list was not available, because the Government is responding within the time limit, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly has attached the same. However, I would like to recall that, on 26 February, I raised a written question concerning Senica's lawyer's office. I asked the government: Which ministries, state authorities, public institutions, businesses owned by the majority state, companies owned by Kad and the Court, or had contracts with Senica's law firm? When were the contracts concluded? What time period? For what purpose? On what financial terms? And: How much has been paid out of these contractual obligations so far? Two months will pass, and the Government's written question to which the question was addressed has not been answered. Also on 12 March, more than 30 days ago, I addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia the question of Ultra. I asked the following questions: With what ministries, state institutions and companies where the state has or has owned or owned more than 25% of the ownership of Ultra or its subsidiaries in the period before the government of Janez Janša, with which in the time of the Janša government and with which, according to Janšev, in the time of the Pahor government? Were invitations to tender for these transactions? When were the contracts signed? How long? For what products and purposes? How much were the contract values or were they, and how many payments were made? Have any contracts been terminated? If they were, when and why? I also asked: Has there been an extension of the contracts and on what basis? If it came - when and why? Unfortunately, I note that within 30 days, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not respond to these questions. I also ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia the President of the Government: When can we expect answers to these questions, according to my assessment of the very important questions? Above all, it seems to me that this moment is an important question concerning Senica's law firm, and it has been more than a month and a half since the question was put, and it will be two months at any time. I suggest that the services of the National Assembly do their business regularly, seriously and qualitatively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u57	Mr President of the Government wishes to respond. Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u58	Done. The right to answer the question raised by the Member is one of the fundamental rights rightly expected of each Member or Member of the Government. We're trying our best to do this. If not, then this is not acceptable, and there is no excuse for this, because time, as you know, is enough for each of us to answer. I am informed that by 11:00 today it was prepared and sent, so I apologize. I have no other power than to apologize, whenever we are late to answer the question, because, as it is said, there is plenty of time for them under the Rules of Procedure. My colleague and colleagues know that this is a priority, and if it is not done, then self-criticism must be stated at your expense. As Prime Minister of the Government, of course, I take it and we will correct the mistake immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to remind the services of the National Assembly to ensure that they are eventually reached and not to answer the questions of the Member States immediately served. However, if there was no answer to any question, it is necessary to inform Members and Members thereof; of course, it takes into account the content of the questions sent concerning the powers of ministers, ministers of the Government, the work of the National Assembly, and not the other questions. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. The first question to the Prime Minister will be posed by a mag. A visionary from the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u60	The Honourable President of the Government. I find it difficult to believe that the recent disclosure of the cartel agreement between the biggest Slovenian builders in the construction of motorways for you and some of your ministers was a surprise. The 1998 cartel agreement between SCT, Primorje and other constructionists is expected to divide the highway deal by a predetermined key. The main thing was the SCT, the director and current owner of the SCT, Mr Ivan Zidar. The agreement prevented the healthy competition of construction workers on calls for construction of motorway sections. Public calls were merely a formality and in the interests of transparency in the use of public money. Therefore, the public money remained with the dedicated, irrespective of the procedures required by the public rules. The cartel agreement, according to the account judge Martin Jakšet, inspired the highways built so far for about EUR 2 billion. So every Slovenian citizen, including a one-month-old baby, overpaid built motorways for about a thousand euros. According to my assessment, this 1998 cartel agreement would not have been possible without the thirst of the then ruling policy, whose carriers were LDS and SD. Shortly after the previous government's appearance, more and more data and information pointed to links and cartel negotiations and, among other things, the former Minister resigned, and the administration of Darsa was replaced. With the appointment of the new director of UVK, a thorough investigation was launched in the field of construction cartels. In 2008, the directors of SCT, Primorje and Vegrad were detained by criminals on the basis of well-founded signs of crime. The tax administration and the criminal police have uncovered the background of the savage privatisation of SCT by means of overpaid highway money. Thus, a serious conflict began with the highway and construction lobby, which damaged Slovenian taxpayers for billions and billions of euros. What is more, this lobby has thus acquired and retranslated tax money into its own or private pockets. Dear President, I ask you: Why has the investigation against those responsible from the so-called highway lobby in your government's mandate not continued and stopped? Why did you prematurely dismiss Darsa's government, which had no ties to the highway lobby, and instead appointed famous road lobbyists from the past as head of Darsa? I ask you: How do you explain to yourself the fact that despite the charges filed on the basis of the 2008 investigation against Ivan Zidar and the other court proceedings in the case of the "aircraft tower" case? Why now instead of those responsible for the enormous damage caused to Slovenian taxpayers, criminals, Dara Prošek and Igor Klemenc and others, investigate those who previously investigated the crimes of the highway [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u61	Mr Borut Pahor, Prime Minister of the Government, has the floor for reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u62	Of course, I am prepared to have a thorough answer and if I have time, I will also read about the Government's measures to deal with such illegal practices. However, there have been some observations here, but they do not deserve political answers. First, there will be no misperception with you, Mr Member, not with anyone here, in the National Assembly, or with the public of any false impression that someone had earlier tried to do everything in order to sanction or prevent illegality in the so-called building lobby, but then there was a change of power and they were once again given a hummus in which without any care they could cultivate irregularities. That's not true. On my part, and as far as I know and stand behind my associates, no one from the Government has given the authorities or the authorities of prosecution, the police or the prosecution, any instructions to direct the investigation in any way, except as they command the law and conscience. Another time. My first visit was a visit to the Office of Competition Protection. As a school example of my view of regulators in this country, I then visited Director Sorsk and said only one thing to him: If any of the colleagues, mine or bureaucracy, you or others are under any political pressure on your decisions, please immediately inform me of this bullying and I will react. All regulators have remained, all the chiefs of the competent institutions responsible for the enforcement of legality in this country have carried out their work no matter what their political opinion may be. That's the first thing. Another time. For me, this disclosure was no surprise. I'm sorry. I assumed that in Slovenia, a heavy kilometer of highway costs significantly more than in all other countries and that something probably went wrong and that I then welcomed the activities of law enforcement agencies, and I welcome them today. You need to know that, like in all other matters, the Competition Protection Office, which eventually also stepped on those irregularities, all my support, not for the "case", but for the way it was decided autonomously, and thus have law enforcement authorities, both the police and the prosecution, and that it would not interfere with the decision of the courts. So, politically, things have to be in place. No one in this government has any interest in protecting the interests of people who do not have the money of taxpayers - or for the decision of the authorities which made it possible - to earn more than they could, in order to have an appropriate cheap or appropriate expensive highway. What are we gonna do next? This is an important question, and I will take the time to finish. First of all, the Competition Authority has reacted. This is a bad one, but a good enough foundation to start with. In short, we do not have the perfect legislation, we have enough to allow the competent authority to step on the fingers of those who, in his opinion, have so far suspected, acted wrongly and will follow the normal procedure. Now, take action. I'm sure we'll do it again. I've already said that. We're waiting for legislation. Is anti-cartel legislation in Slovenia the most exemplary anti-cartel legislation in any of the European Union countries? Another time. Is this anti-cartel legislation even more respected than it is, as demonstrated by the conduct of the Competition Protection Office? Third time. You know that supervisory institutions will be able to act even more autonomously and more effectively. We are going to the central regulator, who will have the responsibility to do so. Public procurement legislation will be amended. Here sits the competent minister, who has an extremely difficult task along with others. We're going to go into a new system law on public procurement. The issue must be more transparent, more economical, more effective control. Of course, when irregularities are detected in the so-called building lobby, we will do everything we can to protect the interests of this industrial sector at macroeconomic level, of course, so that it can start walking again with positive installations. It is one of the few that is still falling sharply, while at monthly level Slovenia recorded for the first time in February the highest growth of the industrial sector among all the countries of the European Union - but I have run out of time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, would you like to complete your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u64	Of course, Madam Vice President, because I did not get an answer to my question. I have been in politics for about 15 years, and I do not believe that important things happen by chance in politics. The events under this government's mandate testify to the increased involvement of those involved in cartel bargaining and damage to taxpayer's money. Let me list some of these events that I don't think are random. Firstly, a long-standing member and even the President of the Dars Supervisory Board was appointed as head of the Dars administration, also from the time of the conclusion of this cartel agreement. If she didn't know about it at the time, then she was just a figure. But if she did, then you also have the government's responsibility for the appointment. To builders, 25% of the guarantees of the guarantee scheme for the rehabilitation of their missing investments and investments have been made, which has helped them not least to overcome these imported activities and, last but not least, prevents the sale of apartments and all that they have in their own fund and hold. The government promises the builders additional sector assistance, as has been said several times by the Government. Information has also been published publicly that cartel negotiation is continuing and that the business of re-establishing the runway is now under way at Jožet Pučnik Airport. So I'm asking you one more time: How do you explain the fact that, despite the charges filed in the past, this investigation is not continuing and, in fact, there are no procedures? Why are criminals now investigating, instead of those responsible for the enormous damage caused to Slovenian taxpayers, those who have, of course, investigated these unusual transactions in the past? And it's more than obvious that someone just ordered them to do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u65	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u66	Since I am not a jurist and have a good lawyer as a justice minister, I would ask myself once again very collegiately whether I should comment at all on the decisions of the competent authorities, such as the law enforcement authorities, the prosecutions or the police, except for the officials who will do so, or of course the judiciary, which is independent. But you did ask some questions that require an explanation. First of all, a reference to a political use in 1998. It is said that there is a political background - it cannot go together, because we were then two parties on different political sides, one in the opposition, the other in the coalition. But if we let this go, because I am in charge of the government - not as the president of one of the parties and it is less important - let me say that: for the first time, if President Darsa knew about the cartel deal and she didn't mention it, she has to explain if she knew why she kept it to herself and didn't act the way she should. The changes in Dars have already been made, and there have been many reasons, and they have not been associated with the fact that someone would like to return any irrational, uneconomic, improper decision-making. There were other reasons why we might have a positive or negative opinion, but this was not related to the events that we are witnessing to them today. Did I know about the cartel deal in 1998? Comrade Visjak, did you, as Minister of Economy, know about the 1998 cartel deal? No, at least I'm not. I would be very disturbed if one of my colleagues said that he knew, not only did he suspect; we all assumed that something could not be right if the highway cross in Slovenia was so expensive. But there's another former minister. Without pointing a finger at anything, because now someone is responsible as a minister, and this one has to give explanations, and I, as Prime Minister of the Government, have no doubt about it. But we're acting now. And to the extent that the heads of ministries and police and internal affairs and justice and others, including the Ministry of Environment and Space, consider that any clarification is necessary regarding their conduct will then be given. I, as Prime Minister of the Government, must say this again clearly: therefore, we have no political reason, no interest, nor have we done so to protect the interests of this alleged lobby that has concluded cartel agreements. And we will do what is necessary and within our powers, within our powers, that either these irregularities will be eliminated, persecuted or that we will be complementary legislation in such a way as to prevent this from happening in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u67	Mr. Vizjak. Would you like to propose a debate? Here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Vice President. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose a discussion on the response of the President of the Government, because there were either no answers or there was some kind of evasiveness. In fact, cartel agreements were estimated to have cost over two billion overpaid tax money. That's a huge sum. The former government has also suspected and has therefore put in place appropriate procedures against this. Finally, the Minister's resignation took place, the Darsa administration was replaced, and they were also initiated on the basis of both the tax administration and the police officers' respective procedures. Even the indictment was filed, and now it's all stopped, gone, and nothing moves. I don't believe, Prime Minister, that it's a coincidence that there are independent courts and other authorities here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u69	Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u70	You're welcome, Mr. Vice President. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u71	You are aware that the answer is not possible, only a proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u72	I'm aware of it. I don't know if it's you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u73	request a debate. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u74	I am calling for a debate because we want both the Slovenian public and the taxpayers to answer these questions. More! Not only has she more than apparently stalled the path of prosecution and the search for those responsible on the path of justice. Moreover, even those who had previously investigated these consecrated gentlemen were being investigated. These dedicated gentlemen who have entered into cartel arrangements, which, through this overpaid highway money, have owned businesses, and now, because of their expensive motorways and other projects, they are recasting this public money into their private pockets on the basis of agreements. And I'm asking you, do you think it's normal to have Slovenian builders' bids for a ten-million-dollar deal? That's a rhetorical question, Mr. President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u75	questions are no longer possible, we are proposing [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u76	This is a rhetorical question that will require an answer. And please extend my time for your involvement and interruption of my debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u77	Mr. Vizjak, I should even warn you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u78	So the offer of Slovenian construction workers for multimillion-dollar transactions differs only by a thousand [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u79	Mr. Visjak, please stick to the Rules of Procedure and do not talk about things that are not possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u80	[[...]] [[Not included]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u81	Because I have warned you that you have been talking all the time about issues that are not the content of the proposal to which you are entitled. You have the right not to evaluate, but to propose that in the response of the President of the Government, a discussion and an argument be held at one of the next meetings and subsequent meetings. But you were making an assessment of how the courts were doing, who took the money, where it was given. These are things that don't belong here. We will discuss this after the majority of votes have been adopted, and please stick to the proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u82	Dear Vice President, I have explained [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u83	Press the button.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u84	I'm bugged because I hear my voice. So, Mr Vice-President, I have explained the procedural proposal, and I have explained why I believe that there is a need to discuss the response of the President of the Government, because much remains unclear and if we all have a sincere desire to clear up matters and that no one, including the Government and the President of the Government, bears political responsibility for the situation as it is now, then it is in the interest of this debate and the clarification of these matters. It's a huge amount of taxpayer money and procedures that, as the Prime Minister says, "humus," keep these cartels going and keep going.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Visac. All I ask is that you accept my apology if the interruption has been exaggerated, but I would also ask you to read your magnetogram and you will see that you have abused the right you have. Next. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. I do not want such communication to continue between those who are holding the meeting and fellow Members of our parliamentary group. Each Member shall have at its disposal three minutes to justify its request in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Vizjak gave arguments as to why he proposed a discussion on the response of the President of the Government. If you were correct, Mr President of the Government would warn him that he is obliged to answer questions, not to sell his story. Mr President of the Government has not answered any of the questions in the first part. And you did not dare Mr President of the Government to point out that, in accordance with the argument put and the questions raised, he would answer. Nor do you have any right, Madam President, to intervene in such a manner and to interrupt the argument of a Member requiring the reply of the President of the Government, which is not within your purview. The Member shall be independent in the formulation of his/her request, and in the reasoning of his/her request, he/she shall not intervene in such a way as to interrupt the argument and intervene in the arguments for the proposal which he/she has provided in this case. I suggest that, in order to avoid any complications even in the course of the meeting, these meetings and other meetings, you adhere to these instructions to respect them and to respect the integrity of Members. We are not here, opposition Members, only to be warned by the chairman of the coalition's parliamentary groups about what we can and should not do. We know the Rules of Procedure, we know the rules of this house, we know the practice of this house and allow us to carry out our presentations in accordance with all these matters, to give our views and also our arguments. There is no need for any of you, nor for the President of the National Assembly, nor for all the chairmen of the coalition parliamentary groups, to intervene, disrupt, in this way, I will say, a concept and also a presentation and arguments. For these things there is absolutely no need, the requirement was not offensive, it was no exception, it was not out of context, what, basically, colleagues Vizjak asked in the question of the Member; in short, it did not distance itself from what he asked in the question. That is why there is no need for you to intervene and interfere with the work of the National Assembly in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you very much. You didn't make a procedural proposal, but you commented on my work. I am aware of my rights and my responsibilities, and, Mr Tanko, I will perform my tasks in the best interests of my conscience. And I ask that you do the same, and in this respect we may sometimes have a different opinion. I would have allowed myself to give an explanation first before I gave my word to Mr Radovan Žerjav concerning the answers to the questions raised by the Members. I was informed from the office that the written answers came to cca today. 12.45 hours, but they came with the "internal" label and they are in our records at a stage - in the services they put them in the record under "internal" and you have not yet received them. And now they are multiplying and you will get them - probably against the signatures - during this session, so your warning was correct and justified. You'll get them in the next hour, I don't know, two hours, when things are ready, but they haven't been forwarded yet. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now it's been about three hours since those answers to my question to the National Assembly. I hope they're both here, so that's the 26th. The 2nd and the 12th of March. In fact, however, I am interested in the following: Since when are contracts with one of the state institutions, ministries with one of the law offices of a confidential nature? What are the reasons here? It's about national security, it's about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u89	Mr. Tanko, what kind of question is this?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u90	No, I'm asking, because now you've told me that the answers to the purely ordinary questions that I can read came with the sign "internal" or confidentially - however we classify it. I only asked the Government of the Republic of Slovenia which ministries, state authorities, public institutions, companies owned by the majority state, companies owned by Kad and the Court of Justice had or had concluded contracts with the Senica law firm. Since when has the answer been reliable? I asked you when the contracts were concluded, for what time period, for what purposes, under what financial conditions, and how much has been paid so far? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u91	Mr Tanko, you know the process of asking oral and written questions. You may also get the wrong answer, if it is wrong, then you will have the opportunity to ask a new question. Please do not mix the answer to the question in writing with today's meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u92	I ask, since when have the answers to public questions from state institutions, ministries for a private society marked "internal" [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u93	That didn't fit today's session. Thank you very much. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u94	Since when do the markings "internal", respected presidents?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u95	I give my word to Mr. Mag. Radovan Žerjav to ask a question of the message to the President of the Government. Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. President of the Government. On 12 April, it took exactly two months to consider the Slovenian exit strategy 2010-2013 in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have estimated that there are many positive and good measures proposed. We disagreed with some, but we also proposed some of our proposals. At this April meeting of the National Assembly, unfortunately, we have no action, no law resulting from this exit strategy and would be a response to the situation in the Slovenian economy. Unfortunately, honourable Prime Minister, no action. In addition, a measure which was not directly linked to the economy, but certainly to the exit strategy, i.e. the Health Act, we have withdrawn today. So let's stay in the economy. We have an extremely serious problem of liquidity and payment non-discipline. That's what we should be dealing with. It is abnormal, by the way, that some ministers that a person would expect to be seriously and actively involved in these problems are practically nowhere to be found. He can't hear them, he can't even see them, and we'd expect that. I would like to know why the Government has not taken any concrete action to address this moment's most pressing problem of the Slovenian economy, after two months, I would like to point out small and medium-sized enterprises, that is, payment non-discipline. I want to know: Why is the government generally aware that more than a year ago the adopted guarantee scheme does not produce the right results, does not prepare appropriate proposals, changes and supplements? And I finally want to know: Why has the Government not invested any more in the national assembly procedure since the adoption of the exit strategy, in the strategy of that measure, which would facilitate the situation in the Slovenian economy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u97	Mr President, please choose a word of reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u98	First of all, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the government is concerned, we will strive to address these differences in a decent way and to avoid any harsh opinions about each other, to work in a bad faith. That is why I will now hurry with the answer to your question, Mr Member. First of all, I'd like to give you a very frank answer. If it were up to me, some decisions would go faster, but it would be arbitrary. And contrary to some thorough professional ventilation, with the necessary political consensus, which excuses at least the political majority if it does not already agree in the National Assembly and contrary to the social partnership. On Friday, I received some ultimatums from social partners, students who disagree with the changes in the labour market, unions that do not support the starting points of the pension reform. I have received protests from entities from medical organizations, associations and chambers that absolutely oppose health legislation. The unions said I had a traffic light in my head. Well, that's progress, so far I've had nothing, at least now I've got a light. Of course, we strive to encourage and send the measures to the National Assembly as soon as possible, but there must be one minimum assurance that they enjoy professional credibility, that they have a political dimension and therefore enjoy support and that more or less, at least not until the end, the social partners do not agree with them. Now we're going in order. Pay-per-view non-discipline - it's absolutely a problem. Are we indifferent? No! No! A proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Operations, Insolvency and Forced Cessation was adopted. A proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Enforcement and Insurance is being prepared. But these are not technical laws, these are professionally very difficult decisions. At the last meeting last week, the Government adopted a comprehensive proposal for amendments to the first law and sent it to the National Assembly. The novelty will lead to a more effective course of insolvency proceedings. Legal criteria have been proposed to enable the individual to continue his business in a personal bankruptcy and to propose the possibility of recapitalisation of the insolvency debtor with a new Article 199. Both changes will contribute to improving the possibility that the insolvency debtor - you have asked me several times - and now we can finally answer - in a certain form continue to operate and, among other things, retain jobs. We have another marriage I've already mentioned. An important step towards regulating payment is the fact that we have reduced the country's payment deadline to 30 days, arranged a direct payment to subcontractors to reduce the repayment deadline for overpaid VAT to 21 days. The National Assembly shall adopt tomorrow a law on the management of capital investments. Member of Parliament, is this not just one of the measures that we have cited and which we are enforcing? Of course it is! The exit strategy of capital investments - I am referring to the law on the transformation of KAD and SOD - is an extremely complex proposal for measures. We're working fast, Fridays and Christmases. We are trying to do everything with the social partners to move forward. There are also different opinions within the profession. What I'm trying to say is that this is about a whole series of things that the government is pushing forward, and the results are here. Slowly, but we are confidently witnessing the recovery of the Slovenian economy. Far from being out of the crisis, far away! We have a number of problems, they can get mixed up on a whole line of fronts, but we're going boldly forward. I'm telling you, it's very personal now. I don't know how long this client will be supporting me as Prime Minister. Pension reform - do you know how much? - four-fifths of the public opposes pension reform. Four fifths! It's a political suicide. But we're moving on because we don't have an alternative. Today we told trade unions and employers, okay, let's see where the compromises are, but with this demographic policy and this state, there is no way to ensure security for the older generations. And here we have great dilemmas. I set a deadline and was accused of violently interrupting social dialogue. There are real problems here. You're unhappy with speed, I'm dissatisfied with myself, and many others. But for concrete solutions we must have the support of the Government, we must have the support of Parliament and at least some understanding of the social partners. And we're working on it. It's not easy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u99	Mr. Radovan Žerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u100	Thank you very much. So, Mr President of the Government, I certainly agree with this last thing you said was probably a problem with pension reform, and here I agree with you in many ways. But I do not agree with what is happening in the economy. There's just too much talk and too little decision. We'd expect things to go faster. For some time now, it has been found that illiquidity is a key issue. For more than a year we find this: that a severe anomaly is a payment non-discipline, that we have a severe lack of investment, especially in the economy. Last week we discussed these issues at one of the extraordinary meetings of the three committees, about payment non-discipline, where there was also talk about the reconstruction of the legislation you were talking about. Minister Zalar said that this legislation would be prepared in a short time, in June, I don't know. Dear Mr President of the Government, I expect you to request from the competent ministers that this legislation - that is, if we are talking about the law on enforcement, if we are talking about the guarantee scheme, and other legislation relating to liquidity improvement and payment discipline - come into the national assembly procedure for the May session. The economy cannot depend on some officials, some wise men who will take the time to prepare this legislation or not. They have to work day and night! The economy cannot wait to see whether we will now adopt this legislation at the June, July or perhaps even after the holidays. This is simply not possible, Mr. President of the Government. You can't tell us here in Parliament that you want to go faster, but things aren't going well. Yeah, hit the table and say, "You gotta do it, it's gotta be done tomorrow!"
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u101	Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u102	There's only one problem here that you're going to want to agree to. But it's not your duty. It is my duty and the duty of the political majority to take action. We are responsible both for this issue and for all issues related to the present moment in the country. And I'm damn well aware of that responsibility! Don't worry about it. We're trying to do our best, not without mistakes, I've said this a number of times. To help the economy and to help it in the right way, the main indicators show. To make the economy recover at almost as fast as it fell out of shape, the facts - not without problems - are indicators that we must be terribly concerned about. But also those whom we were convinced would be the cruelest to us, the unemployment indicator, are dying. Wait! We have gone through a recession without great social burdens. We have, in my opinion, taken a risk with reasonable risk of reducing competitiveness; but we are now eliminating this problem of reducing competitiveness. And as a result, we are now facing a problem because of the need to take measures that are absolutely unpopular. I'll take them. I just need to know that they're really ready. Listen up! The Health Activity Act that we have now withdrawn from the agenda was 26 times in the draft. Twenty-six times! This is the government's responsibility, of course, but so many times we have tried to make things better professionally and politically. And that's why I said, no problem hitting a table, problem is knowing you're doing the right thing. And when I know I'm doing the right thing, let's go all the way. You've known me so much. The problem is that some things are such that it is very difficult to assess what the sequences of conduct will be and that we need a day of reflection. But it's not easy. But we're in that group of countries that are now recovering faster, just like we were in a group of countries that were falling into the depth of recession faster. Look at some of the other countries they face! However, Slovenia does not have one. And here's the political tension, as if we were just before the bankruptcy of the country. Of course we have a liquidity problem! Other countries have it. With us, money is more expensive than in other countries, and we need to know why. I'll have another conversation with the bank representatives. I need to find out what's going wrong. Guarantee scheme - do you know when we gave it? Marca last year. How long was she in the procedure of the National Assembly? Because obviously we haven't communicated this problem well enough. And then there were important changes in the guarantee scheme that made it useless. Mr. Ambassador Žerjav, therefore, we must come with prepared proposals! It's the government's responsibility! The guarantee scheme was such a case, and I can no longer afford it, because we are with the guarantee scheme and the stupidities that have been done along with it, without prejudice to the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Deal with things, as you think it's right. But at one point we threatened all measures to help the economy and I can no longer afford it. I think we're out of the worst. We still have problems, but the government is trying to take the right action now. [[....]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that we hold a debate on the response of the President of the Government. Why? Because I believe that there will also be a need to talk about economic problems in the National Assembly. We can talk a lot about all the possible things that are not important to these citizens and citizens, but when we come to things that are extremely important, even how the country will move forward in the coming years, and we somehow find no time here. Which is why I suggest we talk about this. Today, thank God, we talked about the economy, not health care, not pensions. These are the issues that matter. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have already announced that we will be constructive on these issues because we know that this is a problem and that, despite the fact that the public issue is problematic, we need to take this step forward. But when we get to the economy, we're always very careful and quiet. That is why I would expect you here, Mr President of the Government, to show determination and to ask your ministers to come up with solutions on a day-to-day basis. Not tomorrow, today, Mr. President of the Government! Maybe a word. Unemployment is dying - it is, but I am afraid that if we do not take measures concerning non-equity, as far as payment non-discipline is concerned, we will have a lot of failed small, micro and medium-sized enterprises, including good, family-owned enterprises, with one, two, three employees this year. If there are no such measures, look, we're today in April, it's an April session. We expect there to be something concrete on the table at the May session. Mr President of the Government, let's do everything we can to make this a May session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Your proposal, Mr Radovan Žerjav, to discuss the response of the President of the Government, we will decide at tomorrow's vote. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. I propose that the reply to both questions be withdrawn by withdrawing the level of confidentiality marked "internal". This marking may set out classified information whose disclosure to an unannounced person could harm the functioning or performance of the Authority’s tasks. I find that I, as the one who asked the question, am not an unannounced person, I am a Member. I would like to know in which case the disclosure of these data could harm the functioning of the Government of one, another, the Third Ministry, Kad, the Court of Justice and other matters, should it reveal with which legal persons Senica concluded contracts, how much for this, when it concluded, under what conditions and so on. In view of the fact that this is provided for in Article 13 of the Secret Data Act, Article 10 provides that such data shall be designated by the Registrar of the Authority. In view of the fact that I have addressed this question to the Government and we have here the chairman of this body, President of the Government, I propose that the President of the Government withdraw the level of confidentiality from these two answers to my questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u107	[[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] It's already settled. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u108	Is it settled? It's already settled. Good. Madam President, I propose that this be done as soon as possible, because, in fact, the normal use of this information, which I will get with the question of the Member, is not actually possible. This is a file that will be easy if this level of confidentiality is not withdrawn, somewhere in the archive and its use will be enabled under very limited conditions. However, I do not think that this is in the interest of the Government and not of those who could use this information. However, it seems to me that the contracts concluded by the public institutions concluded by the ministries have the nature of public data, are not about any matters relating to intelligence services, nor are they related to basic defence development programmes and so on. In short, it is purely normal data of a legal nature that legal entities have in the provision of certain services to the authorities of the Government, to the institutions of the Government and also to the companies in which the Government is the majority owner. For this reason, I also propose that the President of the Government may decide orally, no need to wait in writing for the answers to my two questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. I believe that the President of the Government, within the framework of his competences, has taken note of your suggestion and of the comment that was out of the agenda and which constituted an abuse of the rules of procedure and your rights, but that decision will be taken nonetheless. Please, you have had written questions and you have received a written answer. Your questions and answers were not the contents of today's questions and initiatives by Members and Members. Therefore, you used this point to point out a problem that you should point out in a different way. You'll get a written answer. But, please, let's stop this discussion. We will have many different views on individual issues, but I will be very happy if you ever get confidence and sit in this chair and lead the session, and this time I am leading it, I am interpreting the Rules of Procedure and giving my word. Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor to ask the question on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues. The Honourable President of the Government. At the previous meeting, I asked you an oral question about the non-payment of contributions to the pension and disability insurance of workers, which many employers are doing with the permission of the State. In your reply, I quote: "The Government will, within the framework of the short-term measures, try to ensure that those workers who are now going to retire will in fact receive a pension such as would otherwise be paid by employers." More simply: this means that this gap will be covered by the state; it is not a financial problem, but it is a legal and conceptual problem. You say that these contributions under short-term measures will be covered by the State instead of employers in order to ensure that those workers who retire in a short period of time will not be victims of negligence or employers' illegality and will not suffer a lower amount of pension. It is completely incomprehensible to me why the country does not recover unpaid contributions, which were already over EUR one hundred and twenty-five million at the end of 2009, and why our pension box office is on the verge of bankruptcy. What is most important is: Will a country from companies that have not paid contributions and still do not pay, and now the state will cover for them, money in these companies, at any time? Or will you allow the crime of certain companies, which is the non-payment of contributions, as provided for in Article 196 of the Penal Code, to be borne again by all citizens? Do you even know what you are telling a number of employers in the government who pay for their employees? You tell them that they don't have to pay their contributions either, because in the end, they're obviously going to be settled by the state anyway. We want to know what the next step is. In the near future, will you also allow the employer to show an income advance on the employee’s payroll, to take or to pay it? I ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: Does the Government ever intend to recover unpaid contributions? Does the Government, through the competent authorities, intend to initiate appropriate procedures against employers who have not paid their contributions and still do not pay and provide workers with a secure social and pension future in view of the many infringements committed by employers? Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u111	Prime Minister Borut Pahor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u112	For the second time, I think we are talking about this subject, which is of course very important. People have lived with the awareness that their employers fairly, in accordance with the laws, are separating contributions. In the end, it turned out that they did not and that this could endanger their safe age. What is a short-term measure of the state - what you said is true - is that we can assure all employees that they will not suffer the wrong or unlawful behaviour of employers. But you yourself have told us where the contradiction of this measure is: this could mean a message to employers not to pay contributions, because this will be done by the state instead. We have been trying to figure out where there is some middle ground between these decisions, because we can make up for things that have been wrongly done back and so we can secure the interests of the employees, we get the contributions back; now, if the company went bankrupt, we can rely on payments to contribute to the state treasury or pension, but everything in return may not be fully settled, and we can continue to regulate the system so that it is possible for individuals to be able to ask for control to be effective and so on and so on. But there's one thing I'd like to say that seems important to me. According to the tax administration reports - you know that your question was one of the reasons I visited as the first president of the tax administration. Following this report, which was also addressed by the Council of the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, 97% of all contributions were collected. And there would not be any sense in this country that legislation is not being implemented and that there is a general breach of the rules. 97% of contributions have been collected. We need to see what's going on with these 3s that aren't, who's to blame, how it's to blame, how we're going to handle things. With increased activity, the tax administration has provided an additional €26 million in contributions from over, see, thirty-three thousand companies that have not paid the contributions. I used to tell the secretary general that this is a very large number of 33,000. They are also probably very small businesses, but 33,000 business entities are large and, of course, it creates the public impression that there is a widespread breach of the rules and creates some mistrust for the institution of the rule of law. The fact is, therefore, that, on the basis of criteria comparable to other countries, Slovenia is among the more successful in collecting contributions. That's important, too. We have not fully fulfilled our duties, but we are among the best who collect contributions - despite everything. And that's kind of an incentive to move forward. A particular problem is the deferred or so-called interest payments of contributions granted in accordance with Article 228 of the current law on pension and disability insurance. Now you know that the constitutionality of this article will be decided by the Constitutional Court. Let's wait for the court's decision. The government will immediately follow this decision and implement it. So, as far as launching procedures against non-payments are concerned, I agree with your question. This is also the case for competent colleagues within their bodies to see whether and how they can experience some illegal sanctions that will have an appropriate judicial epilogue. Because this adds to the lack of confidence that things are going as they should. This is the answer to my question: the social security of employees is thus protected for the irregularities that have been committed back. We are introducing new ones, I would say, new obstacles, so that someone could not act unlawfully or because of negligence. In this case, he will be punished. We also put in place mechanisms for employees to be able to see whether their employer fulfils the obligations he has, but let's also stay with this, let's say, positive signal or result 97% of all contributions are collected, 3% are not. We have to deal with these. Our tax culture, I would like to say, this is my view after I spoke to the office and when I talked to the minister and others, our tax culture is not Dutch, where it is clear to every Dutchman that it is so, I will say, unsustainable if someone does not pay what they have to pay the country. But it's also not a country that has tax non-culture. Slovenia is one of those who are making progress in this direction. We will do everything to strengthen this tax culture, in short.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Györek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u114	Yes, I would like to complement or extend my question. Look, about this issue, I'd like to introduce you to another problem. These are certain Slovenian companies, many of which are broken-down companies that conclude contracts with contracting entities across the EU. They hire workers in Slovenia and only work abroad for a few months, they receive monthly limited amounts from their employer, as a pocket almost, and they never get the full salary. They also do not pay any contributions, no income advance or any other liability for workers. Of course, from a foreign contracting authority, they cash in all the contractual amounts for the work done by these defrauded workers, with which they normally terminate their cooperation after a few months and find new victims. And this is where the problem becomes even more complex, as the Slovenian employment institutions, which publish jobs for them and thus help them with their illegal actions, are used to find and recruit victims. Some companies are mostly assembly companies from Ptuj, Maribor, as I am aware, currently tricking Slovenian workers with the help of employment institutions. Currently, the assembly company from Ptuj is again looking at the Murska Sobota Employment Institute for 30 workers, but probably also for other district employment agencies, and it is certain that there are other benefits for the employment of unemployed jobseekers. Such activity shows all the signs of a crime, and the state does not even detect it or prosecute it, and workers cannot find justice. All of this reminds us of some of our construction companies that similarly exploit workers from the republics of the former SFRJ, making the Slovenian public aware of it. I want to know: How will the government protect Slovenian workers? Ter: When and how will she punish such employers and prevent their further criminal acts? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u115	Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u116	First supplement: The government will protect all employees in the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of their nationality. Another time. We are preparing a new law on the prevention of black work. However, I would like to pour pure wine here with you because we talked about this in the morning with the social partners. Look, with the information, knowledge and behavior that I have right now, you need to know something: when we step on the fingers of a gray economy, and let's say that we do this absolutely impartially, immediately, and that this will have immediate effect, you need to know that first and foremost, the socially weaker people will be affected. This will, of course, regulate the labour market in the long term, which will regulate the relationship between employers and employees and the unemployed working in the black and so on, but first and first the effect this will have on the pockets of the most socially weak people. And this is for me now, this moment, some "contradictio and adiecto" which I cannot yet resolve - how to enforce the law so that they do not first and above all suffer in the persecution of the grey economy by the socially weakest people. In the long run, there's no doubt. If, and as far as we all follow the rules, those who are better actually win under the same conditions. Okay, this is the principle of some competition, which is also considered a value in some modern society like us. But if the rules are not equally respected, then those who do not respect them are preferred. And this also applies to those who, for example, do not pay taxes, but are employed in black; and they know that they are employed in black, and the employer knows that he has hired them in black. And he has this illicit profits and, of course, employees because he does not squander contributions. As a matter of fact, we're preparing a novelty. We want to harmonise it with the social partners. Today there was some opinion that we should wrap it all up in some kind of package. I said, maybe, but then in this package, there's no social bomb. There has to be a package that has a tail and head, or we'll go "per partes" with the laws on the front as defined by the traffic light, as we said. But if we can make a deal, we will. And there is concern for the socially weaker absolutely in front of our eyes. As for our contributions, I hope we will take a step forward here, as well as with regard to employers' discipline. That's the answer to your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Gjerkesh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u118	I'm not a minister yet, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u119	Györek, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u120	It's okay. So, Mr President of the Government, obviously we didn't fully understand each other. It's not about the grey economy - just as much as the replica - it's about crimes. These workers are deceived, defrauded. So they go in good faith to work on Sweden or in the UK, and they sign contracts - everything, you understand; but this company, in a way indirect, makes contracts with a foreign contracting entity directly and there cashes from that contracting authority. I understand that the grey economy is an area for itself, but in this case, which I have asked you a question about, it was not a grey economy. That's it. I'm going to procedural. Because the matter is so complex and, fortunately, we also have the Minister of the Interior here, who, if she wanted to, could also pursue such crimes on an official basis. Last but not least, it's about fraud, the denial of rights, the alienation of money, which is about contributions that are owned by workers. So this is a matter that we should pursue on official duty. Then I don't know what kind of legal state we are, which we swear to. We all know that employers do this, and we all know that this is a violation of Article 196 of the Penal Code and there is no complaint. That's the problem. However, as the matter is also in some way linked to pension reform, to the pension register, which we know of, in what state it is, I would suggest, in accordance with Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, that a broader discussion be held on this subject. This is not a political debate, this is a debate that is very important for ours, including future pensioners, and not least for some legal order in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Györek, we will decide on your proposal tomorrow, as part of the vote, that the answer to your question by Mr President of the Government should be decided by the National Assembly. The fourth question will be put to the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Franc Jurša, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, representatives and representatives of the Government. Mr. President. The ageing population of Europe, Slovenia is no exception, represents one of the biggest economic and social challenges of the future. In recent years, science and politics have found that European and Slovenian societies are rapidly ageing and that the task of providing quality ageing for the population will overshadow other sustainable development tasks. In Slovenia according to statistics, status per day 30. 6. 2009 represents the proportion of the older population, which is over 60 years old, 21.74% of all citizens, 444 000 inhabitants of our country. The proportion of those over 65 years of age is 16.49% and 337 thousand. Projections of population growth show that in 2020 there will be over 65 years of age 420 000 people and in 2040 there will be 569 000 people. This is more than enough eloquent data indicating the need for the active engagement of the Slovenian political and social environment to solve the integrated problem of ageing society and thus of longevity. In a spirit of awareness of the complexity and global importance of the issues relating to the third life period, it is therefore necessary to establish an organisation which, at government level, will deal comprehensively and in an integrated manner with issues relevant to older people, and as a government institution, ensure cooperation with non-governmental senior organisations in the identification of problems and in the preparation of legislation, policymaking and monitoring the implementation of their measures. Comparatively, I refer to the fact that, under the auspices of the Ministry of Education and Sport, the Office of Youth works, and in view of the above data on the number of older population, I also compare that the population of the learning population - primary and secondary school and students - represents 20.86% of the population. According to a similar principle, the competence and functioning of the Youth Office may also work "the Office for the Elderly". In view of the above, I ask you, Mr President: Why is the coalition agreement regarding the establishment of an 'older man's office' not yet realized and what are the key reasons why the establishment of an office has not yet been established? I also ask you: When can we expect the establishment of a necessary "office for the elderly" in this mandate?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u123	Mr. President of the Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u124	First of all, I don't want to forget later. The Coalition Treaty is not something that would be subject to the National Assembly. This is a matter that concerns coalition parties, and not the Government in a formal sense. I would therefore like to answer the question of the opportunity of setting up an office for the elderly. When the document was being prepared, which you quoted, there were other circumstances and other hopes for developments regarding the economic crisis. It has now become clear that we must save and be rational to the end in the entire public sector. And that what's to the end today, as it seems, is not enough, is what Minister Krebs told me earlier. And when she tells me that, all the signals are ringing, it means that something will move again that will have great public reflections. Let's take a look at things. We have a Youth Office and other offices that are responsible for eliminating discrimination. My proposal is the Government's proposal to discuss going to one job and this service to implement the principle of equality; and then we have for national communities, for gender equality, for youth, for the elderly. Everyone will support the elimination of the differences arising from this situation - either social, national, generational or other - in order to, I will say, successfully service the needs of the state with taxpayers' money. Your question, of course, is particularly pleased because I have been working all day, along with Minister Svetlik and his associates, with the pension reform - and it shows a bad picture. For the time being, the public does not see the need for it and would postpone it if it were her opinion. We can afford for opportunity reasons - now I say, we as a political class as a whole, to postpone it for two years. But then, four or five years from now, we'll be in front of a wall where we'll have no other choice than to judge ourselves. So it is better to go - and that is why we have concluded - on the way to an intergenerational agreement, where we will come up with some fundamental changes in pension insurance, where current pensioners will have protection over their rights and where we, as those who arrive, if we are lucky, will have a secure right to a safe age. And our children. I want to tell you something, not only as Members of Parliament and Members, but also as parents. I had a negotiation Friday with the Diagnostic Council of Slovenia. Look out! You know what their proposal was when we discussed trying to regulate their requirements by compromising their work, transport, nutrition, etc.? On my suggestion that they get the children's allowance, they said, "Yes, that's what our parents get, you give it to us." I said, "Wait a minute, because your parents are responsible for you until 18. Summers!" "Ah," they said, "not only do we not trust the future, we don't trust our parents!" I mean, it's not a quote, but it was actually their answer. Look, it's not a conversational quote, it's my conclusion. I mean, we need to restore some trust to a safe age for everyone. And here we must also take care of the interests of young people. And it must also take care of the interests of the active population and, of course, also the rights enjoyed by the current generation of pensioners. But put it together so that we have firm guarantees that we will be from the first pillar - leave the second and the third. I am, of course, in order to develop it, but the first pillar is the responsibility of the state to have at least an approximately secure age, it will be necessary to take one major step and then I will also need your courage and your determination here when we discuss pension legislation. But the office for the elderly, I'll say, is a soap bubble in the care of older people in the context of the care we have for the present generation of pensioners, and especially for the one that is coming. And the one who's coming is now paying those who are in retirement, so that I can, I'll say, otherwise certainly not satisfied, most of them are dissatisfied with the situation, but as far as possible, now this instant gets pensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u125	Mr. Jurša, please, have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u126	Mr President, I fully agree that we must be cost-effective. But this does not mean that in this army of officials, as far as we have them in different state institutions, we cannot find a particular group of people who will care for this population. In my statements, however, I said how many of these inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia are at this time and how many will be for so many years and so many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We have concluded by asking the Prime Minister's questions. Would you like to answer any further questions, Mr. President? There's more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u128	Just one more time. Look, I suggest we get along. Caring for the current generation of pensioners and for those who are coming is, in particular, not a concern for the establishment of an office. Do we understand each other? It is the care of their safe and predictable old age or the work on any other pension you wish. We'll have four on the new system. That's our main concern. And watch out! Now we have some fundamental disproportion that fewer and fewer people work for more and more who go to peace. This imbalance will have to be resolved in a smart way, otherwise we will go bankrupt as a country. Not only will it be a pension fund problem, we can fill it out of the budget for a year or two, but it's non-systematic and it's not wise and it's not smart. I have to get to the reform. They don't have to be radical. I'm not asking us to jump as long as we can, headlessly. No! No! I have also proposed to trade unions and employers today, let us be practical and take small steps first, saying that with the small ones we strengthen confidence in the changes in the pension system. Then let us go with long-term measures to be sustainable, publicly funded. This is what I think is of interest today to this generation of pensioners and those who are coming. And I must say that much more with concern are those who are coming, looking at their safe age than the present generation of pensioners, especially young people. Look out! Young people are looking at this very short term, which means some fundamental mistrust in the future that I don't like, but I think that's going to change as well. My students tell me that they prefer to study longer, but they prefer to work more because - watch out, one anomaly: they earn more when they don't have an education, than when they get an education, for the same job, when they get a regular job, or for a certain time. What's with the common sense? But that's right. And that's why they want to study for longer, not because they're lazy, but because they're dictated by social circumstances. We have to change that. But it's gonna be bad, because we're going to intervene in this situation. As far as the students are concerned. Students want this and that, and now it belongs in a basket of rights, but we have to divide these rights by protecting the socially weak, not all the same. And everything's worried about the safe age. And that is why I say: less than the office is more important to take care of the fundamental thing, and this is to ensure a more lasting, lasting no, the basis for a safe age. And that's the new pension system.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We have concluded our enquiries to the Prime Minister of the Government. Mr. President, thank you for your answers. We are moving on to questions from the ministers and ministers. With regard to the parliamentary questions raised at the previous meetings of the assembly, I inform you that Mr Borut Miklavčič was asked an oral question at the 14th meeting of the assembly by Mr Borut Miklavčič, the absent Minister of Health, and suggested that the Minister answer him orally at the next meeting. As Mr Borut Miklavčič's new Minister of Health has ceased to serve as Minister, in accordance with Rule 249.a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, this question is now irrelevant to the newly appointed Minister. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. The first question for the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačić, will be asked by Mr Miro Petek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In part, the President of the Government, Borut Pahor, has already answered the question about the cartel, and of course the construction of the road lobby would have much to say about this, Mr Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport. Companies that have freely signed a cartel agreement are not only companies that have built much more expensive than they should have been, but have done their job very badly in these companies as well. In addition, Slovenian citizens and taxpayers made fun of the highways when they were wrongly expensive. Let us just remember how SCT was involved in replacing the diskette with the contractual tender documentation in the competition procedure for the Trojan tunnel in 2001 - and nothing happened. Let's just remember how much worry, damage, danger and traffic congestion caused the collapse of fire traffic in the Štutvice tunnel - and no one's hair was harmed. Let's remember how much the Golovec tunnel has irritated, and no one has. During the time of the government, Dr. Janez Drnovska was allowed and even legalized impressions on the motorway programme from the envisaged investment plans were by 50%. However, by this cartel agreement, performers of the motorway programme have raised this price by up to 30% to 60%, according to some estimates. This is why we built more expensive roads in Slovenia, which also shows comparable data. The European Commission commissioned a study years ago showing that the average price of the highway in the European Union is € 6.8 million and 12.5 million in Slovenia. And this difference is also surprising to the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, because today he said that about this speech. So, once more prices in Slovenia, I am counting on a cartel agreement on the sharing of loot in the construction of the highway cross and probably also corruption of some officials, possibly employees of the DARS or even politicians. And the fact that some of the construction companies connected to this cartel cluster do not pay subcontractors is an old song. It's not just an old song, it's old crap. Last week, there was almost an incident in Primorska, as the director of one of the construction companies and the company were locked in the inn, and the owner had a tight hunting rifle on them until the company paid him twenty-five thousand euros as much as they had eaten and drank in the past, but of course they paid nothing. Are we in a position to expect gunfights because of various mafia deals? Therefore, I ask the Minister of Transport: How will the Ministry ensure that the construction and reconstruction of Slovenian state roads will not have the main word of the company and individuals who, with illegal arrangements in individual cities and already from the mafia economy, are inducing Slovenian motorways? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u131	Dr. Patrick Vlačič has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u132	Thank you, Chairman. Slovenian public procurement legislation is in the field of corruption and cartel negotiation at the level of European legislation. In accordance with this legislation, the exclusion of tenderers with negative references is within the competence of the State Audit Commission. At the Ministry of Transport, we are exploring the possibility that contract clauses that would affect the fact that such things would be assessed as corruption or something like that would be as low as possible. While anti-corruption clauses themselves are not directly linked to cartel agreements or agreements, they can. Now, I can tell you what the construction situation is like right now. I can say that this current crisis with an acute economic situation in the field of construction has changed considerably on its own, i.e. there is a marked sharp competition between the bidders at this point, but it shows that the prices that the bidders are giving for individual construction services are much lower than those of the limited value calculated by the contracting authority, which is supposed to be some price by criteria. And we actually get lower bids, which are less than 15, 20% of these limited values. So maybe this can inspire us with some hope that this moment is better, but let me say that you have asked a very early question and that is the same. We have started within individual ministries and also within the Government talks on this and we will see what we can do. The legislation itself is obviously not problematic after all, at least it seems now after the first review. Implementation will, however, have to be more effective. Now, as Minister of Transport, I am not the one who directly orders, nor the ones who directly shape some kind of list, black, such and different,. But I can only ensure that I do everything in my power, that those upcoming projects that are waiting for us, and that there is not too little, in the field of rail transport, must be such that there is no cartel agreement. I hope you understand that this moment cannot directly answer you how we will prevent it in the future, because this is a constant fight against the cartel deal that is present in a wide range of economic areas. In particular, I would like to await the decision of the Competition Protection Office, which will say a lot about this or I expect it to give a lot of information on what is actually going to happen and when we have these legal qualifications and, of course, the first legal answers to what is now a claim, then it will be time for the right measures. But once again, this moment, for those prices that are lower than those that are limited, it appears that this moment is simply not so pressing, which does not mean that there will be no more in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u133	Mr. Friday, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u134	Thank you very much for that answer. Minister, you will recall that at the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly in this mandate, i.e. at the outset, I have asked you an oral question on the Public Procurement Act and the possibility that, on the basis of the Public Procurement Act at that time, a blacklist of non-solid companies working with public funds would be introduced. Article 42 made it possible to exclude from the procurement procedure the company which is known to have made a major professional error in any investment in the field of public procurement. In the past we spoke about the SCT and, of course, the Štuvian tunnel - for example, SCT admitted to the construction of the Oncology Institute. Of course, this is now over this question of the Member States and, of course, it is no longer in your domain. However, we have article 77a of the law which provides for a similar blacklist of tenderers with negative references and can be excluded from the procedure if it provides false and misleading evidence. This 77a article speaks of a record of suppliers with negative references, so I wonder: Do you know of any information, how many incorrect operators Dars has already written in this record? You said you are not writing the blacklist yourself, which is right, but nevertheless: Do you not think that there should be any other performer on this blacklist in Slovenia, especially those who have cartelly shared this highway prey? And: Can these companies involved in this affair still be referred to as positive-referenced companies, or can they still belong to this negative-referenced list of bidders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u135	Mr. Patrick Vlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u136	Thank you, Chairman. I now hope that the Member will understand, because this question that he has asked me now goes beyond what was the basic question. I find it hard to answer these things from your head, so if you ask me a question, you'll get all this information. But I can't tell you how many of them there were, constructions like that, anything like that. Above all, I repeat that we will do everything in our power of our ministry to combat anti-cartel legislation. However, this is not a direct area of the Ministry of Transport, more of the Ministry of Economy or of the Ministry of Finance, but on the one hand it is an economic activity and, on the other hand, a public procurement. I'd like to apologize for the following questions, Mr President, if you don't mind. We have a council of ministers due to volcanic dust, because all air traffic has been crippled by this moment in the European Union, and we have a video conference. Because it's my turn right now, I'm afraid I'm gonna have to leave the session, and I'm gonna answer at the very first opportunity if you have so much understanding. Right now, I'm starting a video conference.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you. You've already announced your absence, we've excused you, but it seemed at the time that you might be able to attend after the 15th. I believe that we all understand that this videoconference is an obligation that you must perform; and thank you very much. Mr. Procedural? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u138	Thank you very much. In the spirit of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and its 246th Article, I propose, of course, a debate. It seems that there was also a minister, and well before that, the Prime Minister of the Government and many ministers, before that, that they were appalled at what is going on around this cartel deal, so I am confident that we will gather so much power and will at tomorrow's meeting, and above all so many votes that we will discuss this and also discuss the response of Minister Vlačič. It doesn't matter to me whether you support my proposal, or my proposal, or both. The intention of both proposals is to talk about it in the National Assembly. Cartel negotiation reduces competition, on the other hand higher prices, opens the door to corruption and we also get expensive and very bad roads in Slovenia. Cartel bargaining is an outflow from the market of other providers, and this account has been created in Slovenia by a tykun construction elite, which has become very rich in this account in recent years. Especially at the expense of those who pay taxes and from which the highway program is also built. The country should be more effective in this area. These people should be looking at this activity under their fingertips, not at the fingertips that have happened so far. That is why I am sure that you will support this debate and that at the next meeting, when the minister has more time, we hope that the ashes will be gone, too, we can discuss this in depth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Friday, we will decide on your proposal tomorrow as part of the vote. Mr Bogdan Barovic will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Are you going to ask him even though he's gone?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u140	Yes, I will.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u141	Please, Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u142	I'd also like to ask for a written response as quickly as possible. I don't need an extension of the session and I don't need an oral response at the next meeting, but I want a written reply as soon as possible - the minister will probably find out. I ask the question, which is more pressing for 210 municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia, which began with the question: "Listen, you, mayor, what are you doing? Why are you shutting down local passenger traffic?" Of course, a man looks like a bull in a new door and calls the concessionaire, saying, "What are you doing predicting the termination of passenger traffic?" Well, then he says, "You better ask the Ministry what's going on with the concession contract for public transport, which will run out of 10. May." The concession call, which the DRSC is supposed to be responsible for, but, of course, under the auspices of the Ministry of Transport, is another huge and cruel whoremonger of this government, who makes a call, does not know what. In the concession invitation to tender, only minimum standards have been put in place which absolutely exclude public transport within the municipality, which reduce at least half of the cross-border transport and, at many ends, also make it impossible to connect; your colleagues will probably be able to confirm - that is, your fellow mayors. For Zasavje in particular, 32 daily rides were in Trbovje, from concession forward, if as described, the ride will be 0.0. But what's funny is when the government says it's a big advance, because the prices are going to be down by 20%. I wonder how much 20% of nothing is. I think it might be embarrassing for someone who does. Notwithstanding the fact that all concessionaires against this concession invitation to tender are in such content and form as it is; that dissatisfied people who, if they do not take action by the municipality, are subject to public transport; that all those who are connected to bus services are dissatisfied. Yes - this is the worst - contrary to this government's claim [[End warning sign]] opposes any desire to reduce solid particles, after as much public transport as possible, and we stop bus transport. I don't know who the fool is. That's why I want the minister to tell me, "Why does such a concession offer allow?" Why it sets minimum standards that will lead to unfair competition - which is another reason - to inaccessibility and increase wild and inadequate [[End warning sign]] Taxi service? And: Does the Ministry at least provide for coordination? Will it take into account the demands of concessionaires and, thank God, perhaps even a notice from the local community that they will suddenly have to find them from the air? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Barovich. In accordance with your proposal, you will receive a written answer to the question put. Mag. Franc Žnidaršič will ask the Minister of Transport a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Four years have passed since the Transport Ministry first received a proposal from a citizen of Mitja Vular, at the same time a student service representative of Student, d.o.o., to reduce the number of accidents at unprotected railway crossings, to reduce the number of deaths at these crossings and to reduce the number of broken prisons to be replaced up to 150 times in one year. Mag. Christmas, three months before the tragedy in Cirkovec, which could be prevented by a more than a year-old proposal, replied to Mr Kontic's question on why the solution was not used, that only what was permitted by law could be on the railways. Within a year, the Ministry of Transport had not been able to determine that it was necessary to basically amend only one article or one single sentence in an article referring to light equipment of locomotives for the first of these solutions. The successor of Minister Bozič did not work with the introduction of the novelty. More than six months ago, the current minister had detailed solutions, as well as the Director of the Railways Directorate. Over the years, the solution has been modified to test the reduction in the number of accidents resulting from the crossing of bear tracks. The new is also a solution to the significant increase in the visibility of the incoming train when the railway crossing is in the turn. It is also important to note that the most accidents at unprotected railway crossings occur outside the cities in the countryside. Is it obvious that there is no one in the country who would be interested or who would have a degree of responsibility in these areas? Since I am a doctor, I can claim that direct meetings with the train usually end with serious injuries or death, and that the costs of polytrauma are in the highest order, so it would be necessary to reduce or prevent them. I would also point out the tragedy of Slovenian perception of reality: the project of introducing engines at rescue stations has been blocked for decades, but today engines are driven in Maribor, Ljubljana, Isola and save lives much easier and faster than they would have achieved by a car. I ask the Minister of Transport: Why does the Ministry not use or at least try to test the solution of this copyright project in the field of new approaches to resolution? This is a novelty that belongs to the world summit itself and could help prevent numerous deaths at railway crossings and serious injuries that cost a lot of money. Thank you very much. I look forward to your next meeting of the National Assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u145	Thank you very much. In accordance with your request, you will receive an oral response at the next meeting. The question to the Minister of Justice will be asked by Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary. In the previous government, we devoted a lot of attention to travel or travel of government officials, government officials. I myself recall the government meetings at which then Prime Minister Janša somehow cut his ears when any minister sent or proposed to a government meeting that five people or more would travel abroad. He had quite a question for such a minister. And as a rule, at least in my memory, the situation was such that in principle more than five people did not travel abroad to the official delegations. Accordingly, of course, the current government is, in my opinion, a good one, but in particular the President of the Government has announced that he will introduce savings in all areas. Sam even said that he would pay certain material costs and he also made public how much he gave for these costs, although some ministers had a little mockery at him, others had acted differently and others, according to your case, simply did not look back and spend further. See, on 24 March 2010, on your website under number 430-37/2010/2, you published a call for tenders for 20 airline tickets. For twenty airline tickets, you have offered eighteen thousand euros to the most advantageous bidder who will make the transfer in time for 5. 4. in the United States of America twenty officers of the judicial system - you will tell yourself who it was - the ministries, perhaps even the courts, this is not clear from the invitation to bring them back to Slovenia 11. 4. There are unusually many of these employees, so I ask you: What is the purpose of this trip to the United States? What was the working schedule for these people? What was the actual ticket price then? What will be the price of the other costs: hotel services, transports, diaries, other costs? Of course, I would also like to see, perhaps at least after a written question that I have also asked, a list of these people; especially: [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] - that the procedure was not conducted in accordance with the Public Procurement Act? [[...]] Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u148	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor. This government, as well as the Ministry of Justice, greatly saves me from travelling abroad, so that I am usually accompanied by only one person on my official journeys, never five. Like, say, in the previous government, as I mentioned. In this particular case, let me tell you the following. It is true that it was an invitation to tender for 20 participants, but they are not servants of the Ministry of Justice and none of them are employees of the Ministry of Justice. As part of the Ministry of Justice, the Centre for Justice Education operates, serving the educational needs of all judicial bodies such as the prosecutions, the courts, the defences and so on. In this context, funding or co-financing of one such programme was involved. It is a study project carried out under the project Annual Work Programme of the European Return Fund, so called. This project was confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at its meeting on 15 October 2009. This European Return Fund is one of the four funds of the General Programme, called Solidarity and Management of Migration Flows in the Area of Freedom, and includes the Fund for the Integration of third-country nationals, the External Borders Fund, the Refugee Fund, the Return Fund for the period 2008-2013. Unlike some other ministries that have been included in these funds since 2007, the Ministry of Justice has only been included in this fund this year. The essence of this cooperation is in line with the fact that when European funds are spent, 75% of this money is from European funds and 25% is part of its own participation, i.e. the state budget; and in this context, it is the budget of the Centre for Education in Justice. The participants were therefore judges, 15 judges of the Administrative Court and four judges of the Supreme Court and one expert member of the administrative department of the Supreme Court. Because you asked for the purpose of this visit - it was intended, of course, to familiarise yourself with the judicial and administrative procedures of the US administration and the judiciary. They had talks at the Immigration Court, then at the Second Circuit Court, then went to the United Nations Refugee Agency at the United Nations, and in particular discussed the procedures for the development of documentation, immigration flows and information in the countries of origin, which is an important part of determining the actual situation of individuals in immigration procedures. Then they had special presentations on the permanent return of foreigners, the review of case law, procedural standards, then they also attended one hearing, had interviews with a non-governmental organisation and so on. It was an extensive program. I mentioned the cost of funding. From the Slovenian part of this fund was a total payment of EUR 9,280 and costs, such as participation in airline tickets, transportation costs to the United States, overnight accommodation costs to the United States and daily subsistence allowance, are, of course, covered. It is therefore a procedure carried out in accordance with the applicable rules in the Republic of Slovenia. This selection procedure for the purchase of air tickets was carried out under the tendering procedure in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. The Ministry adopted a special decision at the beginning of this procedure, published the tender documentation on the public procurement portal, under the number on the Ministry's website, received one offer, specifically Adrie Airways. This offer was correct, timely, complete and, on this basis, by the criterion of the most favourable price, this tenderer was also selected. That's all, the Ministry here just serviced the third branch of power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Please, do you want the Minister to respond further? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u150	Yeah, sure, 'cause I haven't got any answers yet. In my question, I did not say that five people traveled abroad during the time of the government of Janez Janša, so please do not deceive the public. I said that any delegation traveled abroad, there was always a question of why so many people. It is said that there was also a time of fat cows, but today is a time of dry cows, as this government likes to say. That's one. Second. I saw in the tender documentation a visit to the UN headquarters. I didn't see anything you said. The fact that 15 people from the administrative court - I don't know, I expect a more accurate answer in writing, and I expect a more precise answer in writing to this second part. Look, I asked you five questions, and you answered me that the state of Slovenia paid 9,280 euros. Yes, because even the money that is from the European Union is not yours, nor is it from the judges, but it is probably some money that is allocated to the country of Slovenia for this and this purpose. That's why I'm expecting a complex answer, just like the court. And that's when I told you to explain it to me a little bit more precisely -- because I also announced that we wouldn't have any way of knowing each other. What was the purpose - you answered me; you found a working schedule quickly. What is the actual price of airline tickets, what is the price of other costs, such as hotel services, transport, daily bills and other costs, even if they are from EU money. In fact, there was a lot of excitement in your ministry that people somehow didn't talk to each other, at least some people didn't when they saw that list, so they told me. That's why I would really like a more precise answer, although, you know, Mr. Minister, I can't ask you what violated Barbara Brezigar because I didn't do it. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Even though I'd like to nine times this. [[...]] I'll do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u151	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Now, if you're talking about excitement at the Ministry of Justice, I think I know where it comes from, because I've decided that none of the Ministry's staff will go on this trip because of the Ministry's austerity measures. And if that was the excitement and if that was the basis for the excitement, then I am pleased that this excitement occurred. I don't understand your excitement about this. As regards the price, total costs amounted to €37,121, of which €27,841 from the European Fund and the 9,208 from the Slovenian share. Flight tickets; €865.5 one ticket, transport costs to the United States €1199 for the whole week, overnight costs €140 times five nights, times 20 participants, that is a total of €14.000, transport from Ljubljana to the airport and back 200 euros and daily bills, that is 44.12 euros times five days, times 20 participants, that is €4412. And this is the structure of this cost that I just presented to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Dr. Gorenak? Please, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u154	However, traveling to the United States, 20 people in these times of economic crisis and so on, despite the answer you gave me - let me explain to you that I am not completely upset by the excitement of your colleagues - does not seem prudent, in any way it does not seem reasonable to me, in any way it does not seem wise. For this reason, I believe that there is a need to speak more broadly about this matter and that we cannot go beyond the question it is called, 20 people went to the United States, and whatever was going on there, even a small number of participants, if it was a study trip, can be sent and they can pass such knowledge on to all others who are in need of such knowledge. That is why I still believe that this should be discussed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u155	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Vinko Gorenak to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Justice to his question on the matter, the State Assembly will decide tomorrow, 20 April 2010, in the framework of the vote. Janez Ribič will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic. Please, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, distinguished president of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Good-bye. I will continue with the uncomfortable subject which I have always and repeatedly opened in the National Assembly, which is, Mr. Minister, now that you have probably done well with the work of the former Minister, I ask you: How much and if you are even aware of the financing of water infrastructure from the Water Fund? I want to know: Have you possibly set new priorities for spending the funds of the Fund? As I have repeatedly warned on this point, these funds should primarily be devoted to the most flood-prone areas in the Republic of Slovenia. Let me freshen up the problem. The Ministry of the Environment and Space is constantly squeezing resources for the maintenance of watercourses and water infrastructure. In view of the situation on the ground, no regular maintenance work is carried out on the watercourses, which would necessarily be necessary for their flow and to prevent their flooding and, as a consequence, the threat to the inhabitants. Moreover, there are no investment projects to be carried out from the water fund, except for the construction of the lower Sava power plant chain, which is not a water infrastructure, but a resultant building of energy facilities. All these facts show that the country does not have a water policy, where there would be a clear policy to address the risks of settlements and economic infrastructure ahead of water and spatial policy in relation to water and peripheral space. I wish something would change and move during your ministry in this area. One of the pressing problems is the construction of high-water embankments on the left bank of Drava between Maribor and Ptivo. It is expected to start in 2007. It will not start until 2011 according to optimistic forecasts. Funding from cohesion funds is also provided for certain such projects. I want to know: What's going on in this area? When will the projects finally begin to ensure the safety of residents and infrastructure against water?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Roko Žarnic, Minister for Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament. Dear Mr Ribič, thank you very much for this question, which I have asked myself several times in this House, is the same question as you have asked me. I agree that funding must be given priority for flood areas, but I have a problem with this, and it is very clear to all. We know for a short time that we have had to put pressure on me to stop construction on the bottom of the Sava, to blame the damage that is coming, for the few days that I will have to pay for the damage from my pocket. The water fund issue, the Water Fund Act is very clear to all of you, and I don't know if it makes sense that I'm losing my words on this matter, but I'd rather answer that question that you're interested in. Maybe about the money. To do what we need to do in the water fund, we need €185 million by 2015. Slovenia, as a republic, should provide 111 million euros plus another 40 million euros for water supply to Pomurje and Crassus. The priorities are to ensure flood safety in Savinja, Ljubljana, Drava, Dravinje, Mure and to upgrade the water environment monitoring and analysis system in Slovenia. That's what needs are. In 2010, about 30 million euro was raised in the water fund, of which, after this very well-known law, which I do not agree with, 5 million euros were absorbed into the integrated budget, 25 million of which we have left. Exactly EUR 25 million 16 thousand 96. Infra spent about €13 million this year on building on the bottom of the Sava, within this debate. The Institute, which is responsible for this, spends around €2 million annually, funding a cohesion water supply project requires 2 per million €300 and only €7 and a half million for the tasks that are the subject of your question. If we are to engage the cohesion fund, we also need a lot of resources, at least €40 million per year. And if we look easily for 2010, we are running out of at least 15 million euros in 2010. We are trying to settle the matter on a legal level, we are preparing a new Water Fund Act and I am just wondering what the debate will be like here with us, because also, as I would say, the opposition members will not be exactly coordinated with each other and not with the opposition on these issues. I don't think this story is about customer questions, more about substantive issues. As far as Drava is concerned, as much as I have left to answer. As part of the implementation of measures to increase flood safety at the Drava, Dogoše - Melje section, the land purchase process is necessary for the construction and production of PGD and PZI project and PVO. In the context of the implementation of flood control measures at the Drava section, Vurberk - Duplek, more than 95 000 land approved for construction has been purchased, the project documentation is in the pre-completion phase of the PGD/PZI, and it is envisaged to obtain a building permit and complete works in 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the response, Minister? Please, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u160	Thank you for some answers. I'm very pleased. I see something's moving. I would also like to add that on the ground, on the watercourses, in the most flood-affected areas in the Republic of Slovenia, I would like to say that the problem is as big as we now see ourselves identifying. I want to know: What is happening in the field of investment projects to be implemented by means of a water fund, including in other areas? The question is: Are the funds collected in the water fund properly used for those water interventions required for other energy or agricultural investments? And I like that you've also talked about changing the legislation in this part. From the point of view of water management, it would be significantly better if these funds were used only for water purposes and for investments and maintenance in this area. Perhaps this debate will also contribute to this. The problem of purposeful use of water funds and also, for example, how many times a year regular maintenance works are carried out on watercourses. Who regularly supervises the state of the watercourses? How many times a year is this done? What are the criteria under which the Ministry of Environment and Space prepares an annual programme of maintenance work on watercourses? What are the procedures of the Ministry or the public service provider in the event of flooding of watercourses or in the case of natural disasters? I gave you a chance to say something else.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u161	Thank you. Please, Mr. Minister, Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u162	Thank you very much. There are a lot of questions and it might be easier to say something in a frame, but it would be easier if we prepared precise answers in writing to these matters. But there is something, you know, that the concessions for maintenance of watercourses will expire the second year and the matter will turn to a new one, and then there will be an opportunity for some old experience to comb and then use what we didn't know could happen. However, I would not like to begin detailed analyses of the purpose of spending in the future at this point. We can even agree on a matter that I've got in my hand, and I wouldn't keep commenting.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Please, Mr. Fish.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u164	Thank you. The problem, which is somehow in the air and between us, is so wide that I have too many concerns for today. I therefore wish and propose that, on the basis of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a debate be held in the National Assembly at the next meeting on topics that are very relevant to the security of people in flood areas, which should always be before our eyes. Maybe with my questions, Mr. Secretary, I'm helping you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u165	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Member Janez Ribič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space to his question, Mr Rok Žarnic, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 20 April 2010, in the framework of the votes. Franci Kek will ask the Transport Minister, Dr Patrick Vlačič, who is absent. Do you want to ask a question orally or? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u166	Please, if you don't mind, I'd like to make an oral statement and expect an oral response next time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u167	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. Question concerning the completion of the Ljubljana-Brežje motorway cross. As it turns out, the minister somehow keeps his promises last year, and I hope that they will go to the end so successfully. Since that was not the case in the past, I wanted to ask him today: Does he know more precisely when we can expect the completion of this highway cross? And he'll answer even easier next month.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u169	If it's not already open. Good. Alexander Zorn will raise a question of the post of Minister of Culture Majdi Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u170	Dear Minister! It has not been 14 days since we asked the Group to convene a meeting of the Committee on Culture to co-finance the programming content of the media in 2009. It has turned out that quite a few of these media have, in our view, abused the invitation to tender. "Good morning" does not have the cultural annex for which he received the subsidy. STA sold its radio content, got a lot of money for developing radio content. But she was selling what she recorded with the tape recorder at the press conferences she put on the table. Then there's the famous "Blogorola" that's supposed to come out in 2,400 copies that no one's ever seen before. And now he's come out of the field, so to speak, from the newspapers, proof that there are others, and that's the famous Primorska.info with which a real media scandal took place. She received a subsidy for her content, even a series of articles, for a whole project she had not carried out, and she spent money on sanitation, brooms, electricity, and coffee. In short, she spent the money unintentionally. Inadvertently spent money on content is, of course, a fraud. But that's not all. It turned out that the ministry had missupervised this because the director himself said "that at the Ministry of Culture they had to know exactly how we spent the money, because we had to deliver this, that and the third." And the editor himself denied it, so he lost his seat. So I'm asking you: What's up with that? Did you monitor properly? Was the money spent properly or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u171	Please, Minister of Culture Majda Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u172	Dear Member! You yourself must have participated in that meeting of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, when this subject was addressed in an extensive manner, in a just and meaningful manner. One of the conclusions was that, in the case of proven unjustified use of budget resources for media subsidies under calls at the Ministry of Culture, in accordance with the media law, if incorrect consumption is proved, recovery is required. Even if this decision had not been adopted on the Committee, this would have been my decision or my decision, because the use of properly used funds coming from the State budget is essential to control this spending, not only in this call, but everywhere. Here I believe we are united. Therefore, the Special Commission, together with the external evaluator or experts at the Ministry, I think that hundreds of these applications, around 400, have been scrutinised in detail by the reports, which ultimately, of course, carried out by the date of the contract, this review has been carried out in all projects. And in some projects, following a formal review of all the documentation obtained, an additional clarification was requested because the professional service itself with an external evaluator and in line with the draft evaluation, which is also necessary to review the use of these funds, decided to require further information. I don't know if it would be right to name all the media we've called for to provide additional explanations or explanations, including all the financial and substantive documentation. There's something here. You mentioned some media today. There are a number of those who have been invited to further explain and to prove themselves related to the contract itself or to the implementation of the projects itself. What is done in such cases is quite clear. In cases where contracts are not respected when the implementation of projects is found to be inappropriate, it is the operator's duty to require funds to be used inadvertently or to withdraw from the contract and to require sanctions which constitute a refund of funds if it is proved that they have not been used deliberately. At this point in time, I can't tell you about the media you've been reporting, whether this contract has already been terminated. I know that we have stepped down from the recovery contract, with late interest, for the 2008 tender, even from 2009. I believe that once the final evaluation has been completed and these findings have been finalised, of course, we must wait for the return of the clarifications that we have requested, if it is proved that there is an unintended consumption or a discrepancy between what they have declared that they will not, they will have to return the money. This is normal and the only thing we can expect, and I believe that is what you agree with.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete Mr. Zorn's answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. This is one piece of the medal that we have to agree with because it's formal. This case has a different side. For the first time, it was revenge on the editor of this media. To the editors who said that the funds had been misused or misused and had lost his job. In other words, all the print media have put themselves on his side, which is said to be an additional dimension, which means pressure on the truthfulness of editors and journalists. But the other side is completely political. Unfortunately, the co-owner of this same media is our coalition Member, our young Member, who from time to time shares moral lessons with us and misquotes Shakespeare. And I must say that in this case this dimension is completely political, and let it now be asked by a member of the opposition whether or not. I want to know: In this case, will you take special care to investigate these matters? For, for the first time, if he gets a medium co-owned by an MP from the National Assembly, budget money can be customerism. But if he misapplys it, he really misapplys it, but it's close to corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u175	Yes, please, Minister Maja Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u176	Ambassador Zorn, are you asking if we are going to look particularly closely at one case in the light of the fact that the ownership of this medium is linked to a political protagonist? We won't. It is not our duty to engage in editorial policy and relations within individual programming plans and human resources solutions in the media, but to interfere with the correct use of resources, in accordance with the Treaty signed at the Ministry of Culture and in accordance with the examination of the exact use of resources. If we looked back after this, then the so-called Grims Act, which allows for the possibility of this in the law a defined invitation to tender, might we ask ourselves, or if we followed your suggestion or examined this medium with different optics, then, for example, we would also review with different optics the use and implementation of the programme for other magazines, which are, say, established in a way that your customer owns a medium in almost a majority share. But in the media tender, it is not an important owner, it may also be a political party, but it is an important programme, because such are the tendering conditions. We are not looking after the owner of the media, but we are looking at the rules that relate to the conditions and the application that they submitted to the Ministry and competed among other media to obtain the best possible points that are then linked, of course, to the acquisition of funds. So there is no sanction here in terms of political punishment for 'cause' as you yourself have said, the sanction can only be linked to the correct, transparent use of funds that have gone from the state budget. Some other media may have some political basis, but they are not understood as those who have received funds because they belong to a particular party. Otherwise, if we analyzed it, perhaps your answer or further comment would have ended differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u177	Thank you very much. You have a procedural proposal, Mr. Zorn, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u178	It is precisely because you have responded and because it is the autonomy of the media, but at the same time the coalition and the National Assembly are involved, that I propose, by ownership, that we hold a parliamentary debate on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u179	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Ambassador Aleksandr Zorn, the National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Culture Minister Majda Shirca to his question of the mission, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 20 April 2010, in the framework of the vote. Alenka Jeraj will ask the question of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr. Miran Svetlik: Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u180	Thank you for your word, lovely greeting to everyone. We've been talking about the Small Work Act for a while, and I'm interested in a few things. Above all, I imagine that if we go to some such legislation, this is accompanied by some kind of analysis. That's why I'm interested in some things, because you probably know our views, that we don't seem most appropriate, that we bring together three different groups, such as students first, students secondly, the unemployed and third group of pensioners, to unite them under one law. We believe that in this case the law is very suitable in some provisions for students and less for pensioners and in other segments vice versa, i.e. when it is very favourable for pensioners and less interesting for students. Since we already know this term "little work" or have introduced it in the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment 2006, we are particularly interested in: How many people have worked under these provisions of the law? What are the effects? In preparation for the new law, you have probably also analysed the shortcomings, why it may not be implemented as it was intended and how it is with the supervision and financial consequences of this measure. In short, I'd like to know. How many people have worked, what kind of work has been done, whether seasonal or otherwise, including what profiles of people have been decided upon in this way or by employers. Because I think that actually just such an analysis would be the reason for a brand-new law, which, in our opinion, may even mean in some segment, I am talking mainly about a student's work, which we say is well established and is going on solidly, I am not saying that everything is ideal, but it can also be regulated by supervision. How do you think a little work has been done so far? Is this sufficient basis or what has not been adequately resolved in this new law?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u181	Please, Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs Dr. Ivan Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Member, Members and Members of Parliament. The Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment was established in 2006 and introduced a small work institute which provides a legal basis for working persons who are not in a full-time employment relationship, do not carry out independent activities or do not receive pensions. A small amount of work under this law may take up to 20 hours per week and not more than 40 hours per month, and the payment for it does not exceed half of the minimum wage per law. In accordance with the provisions of Article 12b of this Law, the employer and the person performing the work shall conclude a contract on small employment. That's how it's set out there. Then the employer shall report to the person performing the work, social insurance and on its payment and shall pay social security contributions under the law. When determining the measure of social security rights, insurance under this Article shall be taken into account as a working relationship with less than full-time by law. The legal amendment entered into force on the 15th day following its publication in the Official Journal, which means on 2 December 2006. However, the law provides that the Minister responsible for the work shall issue more detailed instructions and shall prescribe forms for carrying out small work within three months of its entry into force, which shall be until 2 March 2007. The implementation of this legal provision later proved to be extremely problematic. In order to draw up instructions and small work forms, several inter-departure meetings were held at the Ministry, involving representatives of all institutions to be involved in the implementation of the small work institute, but in the preparation and coordination process the instructions showed that the said Article of the Law did not specify precisely the rights and procedures for implementation. The instructions to be issued by the Ministry, namely, may only govern the technical implementation of the provisions of the Article but may not regulate the rights and procedures, otherwise exceeding the law's mandate. Therefore, that legal novelty did not explicitly delay the implementation of Article 12b until the issuance of instructions and forms, but it is not, in practice, possible to make a social security application under a small employment contract as required by Article 12b of the Act. So by the fall of 2008, when I was given powers in this ministry, this issue was not adequately resolved. So there's not much to do under this law. There is not much to report, except, of course, how close this form is to a student’s work, which can be considered as such in certain moves. It is true, however, that the student work has also escaped from the framework, as originally established, so much work and we actually have some problems in controlling it, monitoring it, but perhaps in the wrong way. In view of all of the above, we have decided to resolve the problem in the context of the new small work, where all rights and procedures for implementation will be clearly and precisely defined. In addition, the Small Work Act will give pensioners the opportunity to do such work, i.e. occasional and temporary work, which was not possible in the Law on Prevention of Work and Black Employment. And within this law we are introducing a special regime, particularly against individual groups that will be involved in small work, i.e. students whom we believe are also required by special provisions because of their special situation, namely their primary status as students. That's it, thanks.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u184	Still, I think it's about so many different groups and I'm asking you: Don't you think it's easier to prepare a marriage or to define more precisely what you say is flawed in the novelty of the law or in the Law on the Prevention of Employment and Black Employment? While I agree that it is right to say that there is also a possibility for pensioners, there is probably a different limit again than we can say for students. The amendment of the Law on unemployment insurance has been considerably reduced by student work. So I would say that, however, we have done something to make some steps that I think we should take in a similar direction, in order to further monitor and lead to the results that we would like. From 2005 to 2009, 30% of the students' work decreased. Even in the light of the Inspectorate's reports on the infringements, these have decreased significantly. I think that a number of important changes have been made at the right time, but we should definitely do something else about it. I agree that you bring into law that this period of work is also taken into account during the retirement period, but this can then always be a question if they are not less interested in employment if this is arranged in this way. And that's why I mentioned different groups because here we introduce students to take this into account during the retirement period, but we have pensioners who have already done their period. Therefore, I think it would be more appropriate for a little work for the pensioners and the unemployed to be regulated differently than it is for the students. And there have been restrictions, not for the first time for student work, and [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u185	I'm sorry. Time for a follow-up comment is up. Please, Minister for Answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Now it seems to me that we could start a debate on a new Small Work Act, which will soon, I hope, come to the National Assembly. But let me tell you. This form of small work is not an invention that we would have produced or that would have arisen at the Ministry of Labour. It is a well-established institute known by the OECD and says that 14 hours a week is part of the small work category, it continues to work for a shorter time, up to 34 hours a week, and after that is full-time work. And in the student work and, of course, in others who would do this work, it is a temporary and occasional job. And there is no reason, in fact, why we should not meet different generations, different groups in this form of work. We are concerned that the area of work, the working relationship is properly regulated and it is clear that once we have a certain form of work defined, it must not be closed because someone is a member of another group, but we must normally open this option to all groups so that they are not discriminated against. I must say that, in the discussions so far on this issue, other groups have no problems, and we are embedded in this bill's proposal that they should be in solidarity with students, especially when it comes to paying concession fees, which are then intended for scholarships for students and students' homes. Pensioners do not object, nor do other categories. We believe that this is a completely modern regime, which is also available in other Central European countries, Germany is a typical example that has gone even further than we propose. So we don't see any reason why any group should be exempted from this and then arranged for it in the same way. That wouldn't be appropriate. It is true, however, that the scope of the student work has decreased in the past year for crisis reasons, not so much from others, and of course we expect the small work institute, when it opens up opportunities for others, to then have an increase in the scope of this work, so that we do not expect students to be deprived of it in any way.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Mr Likar will ask the Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr Henrik Gjerkeš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to all present. Especially Minister Gjerkesh. I hope that the ruling coalition will soon find a new Minister for Agriculture, who will undoubtedly have a hard and responsible job ahead of him, but I have no doubt that Minister Gjerkes will answer my question accordingly. On 4 December last year, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food issued a call for action 1.2.1. This is an invitation to tender for the allocation of funds for an agricultural modernisation measure. The deadline for the submission of applications was 29 March of this year. The tendering documentation provided, inter alia, that the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, in the event of an incomplete or incomprehensible application within three months of the applicant's application, in writing, required that the deficiency be corrected. This deadline expired on 29 March 2010 and during the month of April, when investors rightly expected that their applications were in the best order, the Slovenian Agency for Agricultural Markets started sending applications to applicants after three months, which is contrary to both the tendering conditions and the Administrative Procedure Act. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Why is the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia not taking into account the terms of the tender and other legislation relating to the administrative procedure? What do you intend to do to improve the situation at the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development in the area of the resolution of tender applications? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Henry Gjerkesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Thank you for the question, which, in my opinion, is also a pressing one, touching the previous work just as it works at the Ministry of the Economy. It is my opinion that something needs to be done in this area and we will. But as far as you're concerned, I'm actually going to try to be as competent as possible, and I'm going to be based on my colleagues' data. Therefore, applications have arrived for this invitation to tender and shall be dealt with in accordance with the prescribed procedure in accordance with the order in which applications are received in full. For applications that are incomplete or incomprehensible, the Agency shall, within three months of the submission of the application, request the applicant to remedy the deficiencies. The deadline for completing the application shall be 30 days from the date of the notification of the request. After the call, the completed application shall be placed at the end of the complete application list. 164 applications have already arrived at the invitation to tender, of which 92 have already been processed. Decisions or decisions shall be issued. In the processing process there are 72 applications that have been incomplete and are in the phase of complementarity and substantive treatment. The 164th application received a call following the expiry of the three-month deadline mentioned in your question for the 15th application. Long-term processing of applications is caused by extensive additional checks. More than 50% of the completed applications are incomplete, i.e. they do not contain adequate evidence, there is a lack of real data to be verified on the ground, there is a need for a lot of coordination with investors. A particular problem is also posed by applications that do not contain harmonised documentation under construction legislation. The Agency has so far adopted 6,140 applications for different calls for proposals in the perspective 2007-2013, the first, third and fourth axes. Of this, 4,303 positive decisions totalling €180 million have been issued and EUR 88.3 million have been received for these applications. On the basis of these data, we cannot conclude that the examination of applications and the payment of funds is unsuccessful. Nevertheless, in accordance with my comment at the outset, we will change the concept of tenders in 2010. From the open invitation to tender system and the processing of applications by order of order, the concept of closed tenders shall be passed when the applications can be submitted within a specified time period and the treatment will not be linked to the order of the broadcast. The completion and submission process will be computerised, allowing the investor to be aware of the shortcomings at the time of the submission, and this will, in my opinion, speed up the whole process of processing the application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Likar? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u192	Thank you very much for this correct explanation, Mr Minister, but I do hope to say that - for the right 15 applications it was, I would say, the conclusions on the additions were sent for 15 applications after the expiry of the deadline - I hope to say that if, for whatever reason, the investor had missed the deadline of this call, it would not have been in the order of order and thus not be subject to the same rules for farmers and, on the other hand, for officials handling these applications. I must stress and specifically point out that the agricultural situation from day to day is deteriorating, the prices of crops are falling, and the production costs are rising, as we all know. This leads us to an even greater strategic dependence on food, and many farmers who for many years have grown up on their holdings regrettably find that this does not pay off and many will insist on these farms just because they have been raised so much and because they love domestic land. And I also need to find that bureaucratic procedures in agriculture are still difficult and complex, even for those officials working on these procedures, and therefore, during the crisis, when the credit crunch is still failing, we rightly expect their applications to be dealt with in a timely and, above all, correct manner. Farmers do not have their lawyers, especially not the time and money to deal successfully with increasing bureaucracy. The opinion already prevails that calls for various incentives are intended primarily for these modern-day farmers, who also have different companies registered for agricultural activities, without agricultural tradition, [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u193	Yes, would you like to answer that further? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u194	Thank you. I must say that I agree with your findings. The first conclusion is that if we were to be late for the application, we would not be included. This is of course a system that is unfair in this part and here I have to believe the number of my colleagues that it is only 15 applications, that is the reason for the long-term verification of data. In the other part where you say it's not worth farming. Of course, I'll say it's not worth it in this situation, but it's extremely strategic for Slovenia. And for this reason, we have to provide financial resources, some subsidies, and at the same time make it possible that these procedures will no longer be so bureaucratic and will no longer require farmers to hire any other aid and will favour those, as you say, modern entrepreneurs who already have this assistance in some way. And if I compare this with European cohesion policy, I am sure that my successor, if not the other, will be able to take a few steps here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Silven Majhenič will ask the Member of the Council a question to Justice Minister Aleš Zalar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister. More and more, economic crime and organised crime, as well as illicit drug production and trafficking, are the everyday of the modern times in which we live. There are also increasing arrests of lawbreakers by law enforcement authorities, including in the eyes of the public. More and more often in the presence of journalists and cameras, who vividly capture the very course of arrests, which is in some ways worrying and reminds us of a well-directed thriller who then judges on TV screens for a few days. Surely this is a very populist move by those who are directors of this story, but it is certainly not in the interest of the investigating authorities, who should lead to epilogues with as little stress as possible for those who are in the process of suspicious crime services: But before the public in this way we have already condemned and no excuse does it wash the shame of the society in which we live. Moreover, hearings are published, which are certainly private in nature, and only those who should operate with them, which was also authorized, of course for the purpose of the investigation, but not to be judged even by universal Slovenia through the media. This is unacceptable and criminal. There have been a lot of infamous cases, such as in the case of the construction lobby, the case of colleague Petk, and he could still list them. In all cases, there has been a lot of publicity, but there have been no convictions. The defendant was to be suspended in custody or was acquitted, which also had financial implications for the country. That's why I'm asking: How much compensation has been paid in the case of persons who have been unjustifiably convicted or who have been unjustifiably deprived of their liberty? From what source are compensation funds provided in these cases? I am interested in the data from 2000 to the added, the amount of compensation allocated and paid, and the information on the compensation paid by courts in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Justice Minister Aleš Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Your Honor! First of all, I would like to mention that we have received a similar substantive question in writing on 7 April and have answered you on 16 April. This, of course, is no excuse not to repeat some of the information in this oral question. We have requested information from the State Defence Office of the Republic of Slovenia and this is a message that they are in a preliminary procedure, i.e. in the pre-appeal procedure, which is mandatory in such cases, since 1. 1. To date, the total settlement with 749 injured persons and the total value of these settlements amounted to 5 million 38 thousand 943.56 euros. We have also obtained information that courts have awarded 124 people in total a million 838 thousand 22.18 euros from 2004 until now. And that a total of 746 thousand 871,37 euros had been settled before the courts during the same period. I would like to point out that this data has been available since 2004 because it has not been possible to obtain it for such a short period of time before that, since the records in the courts do not allow this to be obtained in any other way than through manual or direct examination of the judicial files, which would require disproportionate efforts in such a short period of time and is also impossible to collect. You're asking where these funds come from. Of course, they're paid out of the state budget. You ask why mistakes occur or why there is an irregular part of the competent authorities. I don't think any special analysis on this has been done so far. The fact is that the entire legal system is designed to prevent unjustified convictions and also unjustified deprivation of liberty under the legal remedies system. In this way, an individual shall be protected from undue interference with his or her human rights. It is clear that these compensations, which have been awarded or have been recognised in the context of previous proceedings or in the context of judicial settlements, do not confirm otherwise than that the system is clearly operating through the legal means of ensuring the rights of individuals. When it comes to the issue of sanctions for errors or for irregular work, I can only summarize what I have already answered the question of your fellow Member, Mr Jelinčič, a short time ago. Of course, legislation provides for different measures. Under the Law on Judicial Service, the first such measure is a regular assessment of the judicial service, which is made every three years and where one of the criteria is also the degree of regularity and legality of judges for decision-making, in particular established in the legal proceedings. The judge may also be suspended if this assessment indicates that it does not correspond to the judicial service. Then there are the specific criteria of the Court of Justice for assessing the quality of the work of judges, where the ratio of confirmed, amended and repealed judgments, as well as, for example, the number of absolute essential infringements of the procedure, and the number of cases where material law has been misused. Finally, the responsibility of the judge is also laid down in the Penal Code, which defines, in Article 288, the offence of an unlawful, biased and unjust trial. However, I think that the main solution is to reduce the number of such errors and irregularities mainly by investing in systematic training of candidates for judges and later judges themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u199	Mr. Majhenič, would you like an additional answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. No, I won't ask any more questions, I'd just like to thank you for the answers, because the Minister has already given me the answer to the supplementary question, so I wouldn't burden him with the same question again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u201	Mr Ivan Grill will raise the question of the Minister for Environment and Space to Mr Rok Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, Minister, or two ministers! Once again, it turns out that this government - it certainly doesn't tange you personally, because you've only been in this position for two months, but again it shows that we're saving on small pieces or coffees, and on the other hand, money is throwing through a window with a big shovel. This is shown in evidence by an article with a very significant title in one of the media, "Slovenia has spent almost €8,000 to attend three state officials at the Doha conference", and that no one attended this conference. Reason: extremely poor government organisation. I think this is unacceptable for Slovenian taxpayers, for all those who barely survive from month to month due to low pensions, low scholarships and low salaries. On the other hand, thousands of euros are spent needlessly here. I was also informed yesterday, Mr Minister, that the Ministry of the Environment, due to the fights, cannot order a study on the river Krka, on the basis of which many projects could then be made and probably also some investments. On the other hand, here for 8,000 euros, that's almost as much as this study, we're essentially wasting money needlessly. I was wondering if you could explain to me: Why did this unloving event occur? Last but not least, I also want to know: Have you ordered any research, or will you try to find those responsible, and what sanctions will be imposed on the one responsible for such an incident? And of course: Will anyone, of course, repay these costs? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u203	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u204	Mr President, Members and Members, honourable Members. Again, thank you for this question, because there has been a very strange story in the media. And in the beginning, I say that the damage is not 8,000 euros, but, conditionally speaking, 2,970. And this damage of 2,970 prevented a damage amounting to 11 thousand 500 and a loss of 30 working days at the Ministry, which is already said to have been overloaded. And I'll explain what this is all about. When you discussed me here, I was deeply impressed by the memory of Mr Gantar saying the biggest problem was the ministry itself. I, when I arrived, had greatly exacerbated internal strife, and this matter was nothing more than the sanctioning of one such habit. Let me ask you something, would you mind booking a trip without a travel permit? Half an hour before the government meeting, when we had to approve this trip, I got on the table as a minister document to approve this, by saying that some reservations had already been made. January. I consulted with my colleagues in the government, and they all agreed that this was not acceptable. No harm has been done; at an extraordinary meeting of the Government, we authorized the Spanish delegation to vote for us. Three people, 30 working days, 11 thousand and a half for someone to raise their hand in two days. I think I have acted extremely cost-effectively, extremely qualitatively, which is not easy in my own environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u205	Mr. Grill, you want an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, it is of course to say hello that you have done the right thing, but you did not answer me whether those who gave you such a reservation to the government half an hour before the meeting, or whether you have carried out any sanctions or whether someone will repay these 2,500 or something like that, as you said. And look, I agree with myself, with that observation he made on your presentation that the biggest problem of this ministry is the Ministry itself. See, I as a Member am not in any of the working bodies in this area, but I also find, on the basis of a number of sent visits, that there are indeed many officials who do not work for the benefit of your ministry or country of Slovenia. Therefore, I will continue with you through the questions sent and also through visits to try to address some pressing issues, issues. At the same time, I would expect you not to always defend your subordinate officials at all costs, for it is right to defend those who do good and to sanction those who do bad. And please, if you can answer that question for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u207	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u208	Thank you. I owe you a few more. Thanks for your help. But look, it's not cute to be a minister to hunt down his own people. But that's not what I'm afraid of. I have this experience. I've led a lot of things in my life. It's about specific responsibility. Yeah, I've given it to me to find out, because of that question I'm going to step it up. I have something to say about 10,000 Euros worth of study. I'm not talking about this particular one. But I get to the table on the day of college, 10, 20, 100, 400 thousand euros. I've introduced a cost specification rule. As a builder, I know where things can be arranged very nicely, that everything is wonderful, here are quantities and work done and there's a whole hall and a bunch of E.R. Why there are unsigned things on my desk. I'm not saying it's this one. I'm gonna take a look at that. I'll take care of it. I hope it's not one of those. But I'm not signing any of those inadequacies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Puksic will ask Mrs Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, ministers, Vice-President. I ask the Minister one question, namely, Madam Minister, second paragraph 2a. Article of the Police Act provides that the Minister shall give the police guidance and mandatory instructions for work. The Minister may order the police to carry out certain tasks within the limits of their powers and take certain measures and report thereon. I ask you: Are there any internal rules or guidelines or sub-laws that would specify the rules and procedure more precisely how to implement this provision? Do you also exercise this authority given to you by law? How many times have you ordered the police to perform certain tasks or to carry out certain measures during the duration of your term of office under this Decision? What kind of cases? Is there also a record of such specific requirements or should there be a record for this? It is widely known that you are 2a. Article of the Police Act applied in the event of a problem concerning Baricevic when you led and instructed the police or for more than five hours. In fact, in this 2a. The law on police also states that the powers of the Minister, as referred to in this second paragraph, which I have read, shall cease when the competent prosecutor takes over. However, since of course the state prosecutor and the investigating judge, you were not informed that the indictee is also suspected of a crime: When were you informed of this indication of the suspicion of a crime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u211	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u212	Thank you very much, Chairman. You have obviously heard from the honourable Member in all these months, when it has been repeatedly explained that I have the authority to direct and supervise the police, but not in specific operational matters, even in the Baricevic case I did not direct and instruct the police. Otherwise, as I direct the police, I'll explain below. We implement such guidelines and instructions at the Ministry. These are the ones you refer to in your question. During my term of office, I introduced a practice which, in the past, had died due to an excessively direct relationship between the police and the Ministry. This is through the competent police department and other security tasks. Systemic monitoring is provided to verify how the police carry out the planned tasks and, in particular, how human rights are respected. This shall be carried out by the Systemic Directions and Control Branch of that Directorate. Individual system controls are aimed at those areas of police work where different powers and coercive means are used. In order to improve work and improve quality in the field of system control, we provided the Ministry with the appropriate staff and organisationally modified this Directorate for Police and Other Security Tasks. We have thus strengthened the Systemic Guidance and Control Sector and have created a new unit, an analysis sector, a system law and a system-wide normative activity. As a professional service, the Directorate shall require police reports on all important matters, which shall also be duly recorded by both the consignor and the recipient in accordance with the Administrative Regulation. All requirements and reports shall be kept in accordance with the relevant records. My powers in the field of police guidance are laid down in the Law on State Administration, the Law on Police and the Rules on Police Guidance and Control. The Police Guidelines on Police Guidance and Control have more detailed police guidance. The process and scope of guidance and reporting are further regulated. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules, as Minister, I can give the police the basic guidance to prepare a medium-term development and work plan for a period of five years. In addition to the medium-term plan as the Minister of Police, I also give guidance and mandatory instructions for the preparation of the annual work plan. These are long-term systemic orientations, while short-term tasks are given either by the Directorate to address specific problems or at a meeting, such as regular monthly colleges on a particular topic. As an example, I can point out that I gave the police the task of reviewing and documenting all imports from the motorways in order to take measures to prevent driving in the opposite direction. Since the appointment of the Minister of the Interior to date, I have issued 17 guidelines setting out the duties of the police in carrying out its tasks. Let me only illustrate some of the more important ones that have been issued during this period, namely: Guidelines and mandatory guidelines on police conduct with electric paralyzers and activities with regard to their introduction between forceful police assets, Guidelines and mandatory guidelines on short-term measures to raise police protection against attacks, bullying and threats, Guidelines and mandatory guidance on reporting, verification and evaluation of the legality and expertise of the use of coercive means, Guidelines and mandatory instructions on the use of masks and other means of calming suspected suspects of crime, Guidance and mandatory instructions for addressing identified deficiencies in the exercise of police powers under Article 38a of the Police Act, this is a review of a person and things. An ongoing review of the guidelines issued clearly shows that systemic guidance refers to raising the level of respect for human rights in police procedures on the one hand and protecting police officers in carrying out their tasks on the other hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u213	Mr. Pukšič, would you like to complete your answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u214	Yeah, sure. Thank you very much. Minister, yes, paragraph 2a can also be understood, it is probably also intended to do so, long-term and medium-term orientations, measures and so on. However, Article 2a also has a third paragraph, which states that the powers of the Minister referred to in the preceding paragraph do not apply to police procedures whose orientation is taken by the competent state prosecutor on the basis of the law governing criminal proceedings. The Public Prosecutor is deemed to have taken over the direction of police work in the pre-trial proceedings from the moment he was informed of the crime. This means that, in accordance with the law, article 2a, second paragraph: "The Minister gives the police guidance and mandatory instructions," so this had jurisdiction and power. And, of course, because it was, or is known, when the judge himself said that the investigating judge suspected, so he was still not aware of the suspicions of the crime, just as he explained, he said that at 21.50 he had called the police again, telling him that there was no criminal offence at the scene. On her own, then, prosecutor Tamara Gregorič discovers that at 10:30 p.m., five hours after the event, she was informed for the first time on the side of the event, which she then wrote down. That means, Minister, at that time, of course, you had the authority to give appropriate instructions. So why the police, although it was clear to everyone or it was clear to everyone, also from internet recordings that there were elements of violence against dogs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u215	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u216	Thank you very much. A brief addition, because I see that Mr Member is really upset about the fate that has taken place with these dogs. All I am warning is that if you may have overlooked in the means of public information, the prosecution, not the police, has stopped the criminal offence of animal torture, because there were no conditions for further proceedings. The prosecution, as we have heard several times in the last days, is extremely confident and you believe and probably also trust in this case that the prosecution has rightly ruled that there are no conditions for further criminal proceedings. Otherwise, Article 2a of the Police Act does not give the Minister any right to direct the police operationally. You may be so sure that you can continue to say so, but that does not mean that this will become a fact. This law does not give me such authority, nor do I take it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u217	Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u218	Thank you very much. No, what happened scares me, not just upsets me. This has upset the entire Slovenian public. She was particularly alarmed by the fact that, despite the fact that she was deceased, God forbid, Baricevic moved from the outer city in the garage, even if she took a picture of it, if it was to be understood or seen from the Internet, the police were probably not blind if she had already done these videos, that the investigating judge had not informed that there were suspected crimes. Moreover, even in your reply in the interpolation you wrote that there were indications for, I will not remember exactly how you wrote it, but mainly in the sense that there were indications of a crime. If there have already been indications of a criminal offence, it would be immediately expected that the investigating judge and the investigating prosecutor will be informed immediately. By what you have done and when the police have stopped certain procedures, of course, the Minister, and of course the rule of law and the proper functioning of the police in this country, no longer believes children, let alone any of the adults. And I'm concerned that one of the other legal states applies to you or that the exploitation of some of the possibilities that are, to say the least, lamely written in the law, are what it is. Given that there will be an interpolation on Wednesday, I will not propose a public debate on this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Then you used this time to comment. Please don't do this again. Mr Rudolf Petan will raise the question of a letter to the Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr Gjerkesh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u220	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister who remains. My question concerns the use of European funds. It is true that this is somehow already the inherited theme of this minister, who has not been responsible for it since the beginning of this department, but he is now responsible. We also had an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on this subject, and a lot of questions have already been raised, and I have already discussed this with the Minister, and I would like this to move forward and to clear this matter up once. I would like to base my question on three points: for the first time, it is the use of EU funds, which would otherwise come in this credit drought or credit crunch and, of course, be a boost to our economy. In fact, if we do not use these funds, we can say that they will fail, they will not be used in Slovenia. On the other hand, it is about the development of Slovenia and the countryside, and it is also about protecting the environment, because many projects are from this area and Slovenia will have to take certain steps differently, not for the European Union's sake, but the punishment will come from the European Union. [[...]] The municipalities that signed up for the fifth invitation to tender have one set of problems. The terms of the invitation to tender have changed in the course of the procedure, whether it is a misunderstanding or a mistranslation or an information noise. The fact is, projects are being rejected. The preparation of the new project, of course, takes time, this may mean a delay in the application, the right deadline goes by and, of course, requires considerable resources. In general, I ask you: How are these calls from this area now? And if I go a little bit more specifically. In preparing the application for cohesion funds for the object, for instance, the treatment of waste water in the project Clear the river Dravinjo all the municipalities in this area have applied. In particular, I will give you an example for the municipalities of Zreča, because I receive information that in the past, due to the wrong translation from a foreign language, cohesion funds were used only to finance the primary sewerage of the secondary language. In order to ensure that projects would not be prepared free of charge, they have requested an official response. The reply states: "If the meteoric sewer is not connected to an existing cleaning plant and this independent network would also be justified, otherwise not." And now, in general, I'm asking you: Have we solved this issue, which sewer can go along and what is part of the primary network? These conditions and interpretations came later in the invitation to tender, and some municipalities applied for that basic invitation to tender, and the conditions are now changing. But I will tell you in advance that I am going to ask an additional question for a concrete project for the Srečs, and I will give a few more reasons. So you can answer my general part and perhaps you can go to a specific part. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u221	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u222	Thank you, Mr President, honourable Members. Of course, I agree that the EU funds are very important, especially in times of crisis. But I don't agree that I would have failed in any way. I have already said many times, and I am very happy to say that if anyone asks me how European cohesion policy is going in Slovenia, I can say that it is going well, that we are a super-average country in the seven-hundreds after European funds have been drawn. So I don't see any major problems here, but of course we're working on, we're improving the system, we're upgrading it, we're simplifying it, because we're aware that everything we do can be done even better. In particular, as regards the development integrity, the development of the regions you mentioned, there has indeed been a delay in the publication of the call, i.e. a public call that continued from the previous four public calls. The reasons are well known, I do not think I need to say them; it was the audit of the Court of Auditors, the Office for Budgetary Control and, consequently, on the basis of their findings, the legal basis for the implementation of this policy should be adapted, as we have done with the Regulation on the Assignment of Regional Incentives, which has been in force since 1 January of this year. Some things have been changed in this Regulation and this is also a two-phase process. During the first phase, the SVRL submitted implementation plans for 2010-2012 at the invitation of the SVR, and in the second phase, the implementation of the public call, which was published on 29 January 2009. And the conditions and other provisions have not changed since the publication of the public. But it is true that we are 22. 6. 2009 published a call for proposals or an invitation to draw up an implementation plan. However, as all certain conditions have not yet been known, some of the conditions have become very clear according to the audit reports provided by both audit houses. We must adhere to these cohesion rules in accordance with the European Regulation, the European rules that we have reached, because of this, there may be doubts that a variety of interpretations have taken place. It is true, especially for the Structural Funds, in large systems, primary systems, there have been different interpretations in the past, but here I would have to raise my colleague to explain these things together. Somehow we're listening to solve the problem because there's been a complication. In fact, it was there that the congregations prepared the right projects, according to someone’s suggestion, they were transformed, which now turned out to be no longer appropriate. That at the time of the crisis there was also a lack of money at the ILO, which is the intermediate body in this case, and we have a problem. We are now, as far as I have been in contact with the Minister over the past few days, somehow close to a solution that will at least somehow solve the problem properly at this time. About the particular problem you have mentioned and you will ask another question. Yes, we also had a personal conversation, it was about, not changing conditions, but the precise definition of conditions following the publication of the public call on 29 January, but not entirely in line with what some of my current colleagues have been explaining. I agree, that was a lapsus, very kind of you. However, we now have rules that are clear and difficult to move away from, because we are in the second step of cohesion policy, this is a payback. There, however, the rules are crystal clear and we must stick to them now. This is the basic message of the audit reviews we have had in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u223	Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u224	Thanks for the answer. Of course, I agree with this to some extent, but if an official at a ministry gives an explanation, even orally, this is taken as a serious matter. And it's a problem if projects that aren't cheap take their time to prepare for it. And I'll say in this case, in the case of Good luck, thank God that there are other programs and there are other programs, there's a real plan for the other parts, because it looks like this program they signed up with will just not go through. And now that I can prepare new plans on my nose, a new program, [[I don't think so.]] If we didn't have it. And now the question is: Should they go with this new program, which is needed, even to adjust the plan a little bit, because it was not ready? If this goes without saying that another interpretation will not come again in two months, the time will pass, and the project will fail again. This is because it is not the only congregation, for I only speak of the congregation, because they were with me. And now they simply do not know whether they can wait from the preceding one because such cases have been solved in another congregation, but they have been limited in time. Now I will not wonder why this went through with one congregation and not with the other. Of course, the date was otherwise reported, we also admit it, but it is obvious that if it is willful. And now, actually, the mayor of this municipality is asking me what to do now. Should we go with a whole new project, give some more money? Will we then succeed? Because just so much money to waste away because of projects, because of some information noise or something else, you have to understand that this is probably not going to go through the municipal world, because someone is obviously throwing money away. But it's hard to prove that there's been an information noise. That is, if I understand correctly, it is better to go with a new project that will meet these conditions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u225	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u226	Thank you. I understand your sarcasm. But you need to know that it's not easy for me to stand here and say that my co-worker wasn't wrong, but he was somehow easily interpreting something that wasn't yet exactly known. It's not true that we don't try. My principal is in touch with the mayor, they'll meet again next week - I talked to her earlier on this subject - and you'll be looking at the latest options. However, after what she has told me and what information I have received, it would sooner be my advice to get that prepared B plan activated and to try to put it into the implementation plan as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u227	Mr Jožef Jerovšek will ask the Minister of Defence Dr Ljubica Jelusič a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister and Ministers! Madam Minister, last week you presented to the Defence Committee the Government's views on the issues arising from the petition Let's call off the military, which also proposes an exit from NATO. The majority of the petition proposals that have been offered, which are liked by good-natured suckers, are in diametric opposition to the new resolution on the national security strategy that we adopted unanimously in the National Assembly, both with the votes of the opposition and with the government coalition. That is why it is so frantic that all the members of the four government parties on the Committee on the Defence of Grave Expressions have rejected two decisions, which are a literal copy of the Government's position on the proposals resulting from the petition. Practically all the professional public, the President of the Republic, the President of the Government, the veterinary organisation and others have found in their opinions that some of the petition proposals constitute a denial of the basics which form the basis of the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why such behaviour by government Members is a first-class political scandal. The exact same position of the Government, which the Members rejected, was marked by Ambassador Bogdan Čepič as a scribble. Ambassador Dušan Kumer, also from the government's SD, who has appointed you Minister, has twice stressed that the decision with such content is repulsive. And these government positions have been rejected by all government Members by a vote. That's why I'm asking you, Madam Minister: Does it mean to vote by government members against the government's positions or to strike against its own government and to oppose the adoption of a resolution on a national security strategy already? Do government MPs pressure the government to withdraw from NATO's alliance, as petitioners suggest? Was the conduct of the members of the government untrustworthy to you or to the President of the Government, for Mr Pahor also represents the position that his Members have rejected with disgust? Have you held a debate within the coalition on the petition's thesis that Slovenia's security and military medium- and long-term and long-term is not at risk? The government says that this thesis can be misleading and that the petition proposes unrealistic proposals in today's world. Does the vote of government Members against government positions mean expressing disgust and their attempt to compromise Slovenia within the NATO Alliance? I don't know. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, several questions have been asked. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u230	Mr Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you for asking. I cannot answer much of your question, Mr President-in-Office of the Defence Committee, because, as a Government, I cannot take the right, nor do I have the authority to comment on the behaviour of Members who are always discussing and voting in their conscience. As far as the things you mention are concerned, apart from the actions of Members and the government's assessment of what is said in the petition, let me say that both the petition bearing the title Let's end the army and the conduct of our Government are both going in the direction of transforming the defence system, only that perhaps the language of this transformation and, of course, the behaviour is slightly different. I understand the suddenness expressed in the petition signed by many famous people and also many unknown people in Youth, because the fact is that for several years the area of defence has been without adequate strategic direction. Let us not forget that the last resolution on the national security strategy was adopted in 2001 and then, from then on, all the way back to the one you confirmed here in the National Assembly with 67 votes in favour and none against this year, so until this resolution there was no serious strategic guidance document on the national security strategy. In the meantime, the government has gone through a whole government without changing its direction at strategic level, even though the situation of our country has changed considerably. She became a member of NATO and became a member of the European Union. The document relating to strategic planning is the Resolution on the overall long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which was last adopted in 2004 and since then we have no new document for this area, and the situation of equipment and the development of the army has changed significantly since then. This document is now in preparation, in coordination, in cross-cutting coordination, and I hope that a new strategic guidance document for the planning and development of the Slovenian Armed Forces will also be adopted on the basis of the debate in the National Assembly. Which is, in fact, what the signatories or authors of the petition require. The authors of the petition talk a lot about the issue of participation in international peace operations. The fact is that last year the Government adopted a strategy for the participation of the Republic of Slovenia in international operations and missions. What may have happened to us on this petition is a kind of triangle that tells us that there is a discrepancy between what is real facts, that is, the real situation in the defence system, between what is said by documents that have also been adopted within not only the government but also the National Assembly, and what is public perception. Many times public perceptions cannot be corrected if we do not have a uniform opinion on matters relating to the defence sector or all national security in general. In this regard, I welcome and I am aware that the National Assembly has shown great agreement so far in two strategically important documents, in the resolution already mentioned on the national security strategy and last year, when it came to regulating the area of protection against natural and other disasters, this was the Resolution on the National Programme for the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters. Indeed, this document, which we adopted last year, is such that it already answers some of the questions raised by those who have drafted or signed the petition. But it is true, and once again let me say that the problem is that we may not have been successful enough this year to popularise all those documents, as well as all the activities we carry out at the Ministry of Defence. In fact, the promotion of many activities that are linked to both normative activities and to the determination of the situation, as we did in the strategic review of the Defence Department, and have informed you, on the Defence Committee, then the promotion of the increased debate and advisory role of the Defence Committee and the Foreign Policy Committee, says that we have done a great deal this past year and a half, despite the perceptions in this document, i.e. the petition.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u231	Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have given a cognitive answer to the questions that are fundamental. I believe that it pains you that the Members once adopted a resolution on the national security strategy, and 14 days later they rejected the government's views and rejected them with disgust, as they have voiced themselves. And that's exactly the client who proposed you to the secretary. This is totally contrary to what the resolution says. I allow Members to have their say in this way to overthrow their own government. Of course, I am concerned that no mandatory, serious distance has been established to the national resource and to the extremely important issues. I want to know: What are the political consequences when, of course, the Alliance registers that you come to a meeting, the Minister within NATO, what are the reflections there? And then I wonder: What is the mood and moral situation within the Slovenian Army when Members of all four government parties with disgust reject the view that the petition does not take account of the missions and tasks performed by the Slovenian Army under the Constitution and the law to directly discredit the Slovenian soldier? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u233	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u234	Thank you very much. So once again, Mr Jerovšek, I will not comment on the views and actions of my Members, and here please do not mind that I will continue to do so. However, as far as some of the things you point out and seem important to me are concerned, you are talking about the political consequences of documents such as civil society petitions. We must understand that the different countries have the opportunity to give to the entire civil society and to all their citizens, within which, i.e. these instruments of democracy, they can express their opinions, whether they are Members or something else, have the right to their own opinions, which they can express through different instruments of the rule of law or through instruments of democracy. On the other hand, as regards the second question that you have asked in part, it seems to me that either the Government or the coalition supports the withdrawal from NATO, which as one of the objectives or intermediate objectives stated in the petition, I must tell you that the Government is very responsible for the things that have been achieved in the past, in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, and that NATO has made a huge contribution, including from the current coalition. As regards the issue of NATO membership and the welfare of this membership, and of course of all shortcomings, discussions are under way in various Member States. We need to know that public opinion always poses various dilemmas and we must also find the right answers in politics, as it is necessary, of course, to find the right answer to fear and a sense of neglect, which has also developed in the Slovenian Army because the petition for the cessation of the military has begun to receive political signs or has received signs of political act. In fact, I need to know that all members of the Slovenian Armed Forces have sworn to defend their homeland. On the part of their country, especially its politicians, they want to have clear guidance on their work and their conduct now and in the future. If there is no clear direction in this regard or if we give them a double signal, of course it is understandable that they are concerned. However, we have made sure that we have explained to them what petitions mean and what political views on such documents mean.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u235	Thank you very much. He wants to propose a debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Once again, I stress that there will not be any - that, of course, I did not want to comment on the work of Members and I did not want to be satisfied here, but I wanted - and also not to the signatory of justice, God forbid, all have the right, and it is useful that such a petition appears to be about some - but the political consequences of not having the support of government Members. This is, however, a question of measure that you have not answered or that you did not want to answer and that can have very serious consequences for the Government itself, for you as a minister, if such a situation is maintained or not changed, because, of course, the world also notices that there is no political support within the government. And this is what we need to talk about, all the consequences, of what such a rejection is. Does this mean that the majority of the country is committed to disbanding the Slovenian Armed Forces, as proposed by the petition, and withdrawing from NATO? Therefore, Mr President, I propose that we hold an additional debate on these important issues on the basis of Article 246. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to say about the question, because I think we are asking only one question, not more questions, between our questions. Therefore, on the proposal by Mr Jožet Jerovšek to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Defence to his question, this will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 20 April, in the framework of the vote. Mr. Anderlich, do you want a procedural motion? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u238	Mr President, I propose that we remain on the agenda for questions and initiatives. In these references, which have been here today in this particular case now, there has been a series of lies, a series of non-truths that do not relate to the work of the Government, which do not concern the work of the Minister, but relate to the work of some other people. Allegedly. With disgust, it is necessary to reject all the lies of Mr Jerovsk, which he has been spending since the previous Tuesday, because he misunderstood some debate at the working body in the National Assembly and spread lies from the meeting to the meeting, publicly, privately and so on. With grave lies, you have reached into the points of initiative and questions. It is not possible to ask questions relating to the work of Members, to the work of those who are not here today and so on, but only to the work of the Government, ministers and the government programme. This is what I would suggest that when such questions arise, you, of course, do not allow yourself to continue with different illustrations, comparisons, asking other people to determine the conduct of a third. That's it, but it's unacceptable. Not even in democracy, where, after all, there is a great deal of patience to be heard on those committees, given what you are doing by Mr Jerovšek as chairman of the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u239	Thank you very much. You know, I cannot comment on what was right and what was wrong with the implementation of Mr Jerovsk, because I was not present. I know. I have warned, too, that several questions have been asked, and that is why I have said it again in the end. The question must be raised in such a way that it is known that the question has been raised, but not that it is a coalition. I'm sorry. I'll take care of it next time. Mr Anton Anderlič, you will now ask the Minister of Economy, Mr Matthew Lahovnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u240	As in other countries, as in Slovenia, the economic crisis strikes many business operators and those who depend on the chain in which companies from different countries, usually more developed, are engaged in certain production activities in less developed countries, and in this category Slovenia has served in the past and is still partly on trial today. The fact is that in some areas of economic restructuring we are somehow lagging behind, we have not yet reached the stage of a higher technologically developed economy, but we still have a lot of activities where foreign companies in particular are engaged in various productions of activities with us, including in the end Revoz in New Town or some other companies. Unfortunately, there have also been some predictions recently that some companies operating in Slovenia will move even faster into less developed areas, from Asia to China, which is the most pervasive. It is clear that everyone would like to take those measures as soon as possible, even though the Government has already taken many, when it comes to investing in equipment and promoting new technologies, knowledge and the like, that substantial resources have already been invested in this. I'm asking: How can the situation be assessed during this period? Will there be a further rapid outflow of jobs from this address from Slovenia? There are some cases from the White Land. These activities are mainly in less developed areas where this is the most. Is it possible that the Government, through appropriate measures during the transitional period, will secure these jobs so that there will not be too quickly gray zones where some companies from abroad would close their establishments and leave Slovenia for other areas?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u241	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Dear Member, honourable Member, honourable Members! The government is trying to attract new foreign investments with additional incentives, with activities limited to the presentation of Slovenia as a potential investment destination in various investment conferences. In addition, it uses other ways to communicate or present Slovenia as a location, and it is crucial that we have €14.5 million of incentives for new initial investments in the 2010 and 2011 programme that we are trying to create new jobs. Slovenia aims to invest with a higher added value in this respect, because it also has increasing labour costs in Slovenia, which is understandable because wages always adapt to the environment, Slovenia cannot base its competitiveness on cheap labour. That is why the Government, with the aim of attracting new investments and retaining existing ones, has also implemented some systemic measures, especially for specific areas, we have adopted a 'Purple Law' within the framework of the government strategy, which could be complemented by my colleague Gjerkes. In this area, a new system law is being drawn up to promote coherent regional development. The government is planning - at least in the crisis group we have already agreed on this in a framework - to further introduce a new investment facility to invest in R & D. Where the current concept already provides that those companies operating in environments with a higher development risk index, this investment facility is higher. If it is 20%, then there is between 100 and 85% of GDP in companies in the area, it is said that in those more developed regions, an additional 10 percentage points of investment relief are provided, and in those even more threatened 10 percentage points. We want to continue to apply this concept and increase it by a total of 20 percentage points, which would mean that if such a proposal were also adopted in order to achieve a total investment relief of practically up to 60%, which is particularly less developed for these areas, a major incentive. An additional problem that we face specifically in the area, say, the White landscape, after experience with contacts with foreign investors, is the transport infrastructure, where it is necessary or will need to build an appropriate tunnel to the New City in the near future, so that we will logistically unload the area. However, let me say that, of course, all companies in this area, not only in less developed areas, in the whole of Slovenia, but also in addition to some of the measures that I have listed, of course also draw subsidies for shorter working hours that they could have benefited, as well as the so-called Labour Fund or the Institute of Waiting for Work. Within the Ministry of the Economy, when we talk about foreign investments, we separate them into two sets. One is attracting new foreign investments, where new programmes are for attracting foreign direct investment. As I said, at this point we have €14.5 million at our disposal, and if there is any greater investment that is interesting for Slovenia, which may mean new jobs or the inflow of new technological knowledge, the funds are additionally provided. Such an example is Revoz, where we have provided for the production of a new two-seater, which bears the name Wind, additional funds and this car will only be produced in Slovenia. It developed in Slovenia and means the flow of new technological knowledge into Slovenia. Then there are so-called after-care programs, where we are actually trying to keep existing investments. This investment in Revoz also falls partly within this area, as otherwise it would probably have started to withdraw from the Republic of Slovenia in the medium term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Stefan Tisell will ask the Minister of Health, Mr Dojan Marusic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u244	Nicely greeted. Mr Vice-President, Mr Marusic, Minister, Minister and Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. In Slovenia, we know that there is a shortage of doctors. According to some data, about 1,000. About 500 of them are undernourished in general clinics or family medical clinics. The number of doctors per doctor in Slovenia is much higher than in other countries, Western Europe as well as Eastern Europe. The problem in general medicine is solved by retired doctors who are still willing to work, but also have limitations. We know that they are time-limited financially they are limited in terms of paying earnings taxes and so they are willing to work as much as they can, as pensioners. This year, however, the first generation of Mariborian medical students will graduate. I hear it's the top ten in June. But it's a drop into the sea. The problem is particularly in general hospitals. We know that the last two years of new concessions have not been granted. You, Mr Minister, said in your next speech that you would first analyse the situation and then decide to grant concessions. So what is your position on the granting of doctoral concessions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u245	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u246	A respected magus. Stefan Tessel, esteemed Member of Parliament, distinguished Members of Parliament. Thank you for that question. I'm gonna set him up a little bit wider. In Slovenia, we have a resolution document in force on the National Health Plan until 2014, which in some ways defines the criteria for the establishment of principals at the primary level. The target is 1800 designated citizens per doctor, on a medical team. At the same time, it allows this figure to be even 33% lower in certain areas, sometimes called demographically endangered. You have entered actual numbers. Today in Slovenia we have 1895 citizens on a working team at the primary level. According to the projections we have performed on the grave in view of the retirement of doctors and newly arrived doctors into the health system, the target of 1800 is to be reached by 2014. This is not how we solve the problem of rurality. The problem of demographically endangered rural areas is very wide, so I tried to solve it or to tackle it in a way that would increase the availability of doctors at the primary level. The first step I have presented and agreed with the directors of health homes is to introduce outpatients with specialists; therefore, where a specialist works, this should increase. Today, the specialists are not actively involved in the work at the primary level. Another pressing problem you have raised yourself is the retirement of doctors. My colleague, the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, will soon listen to this problem in the new legislation. The third problem, which in some way would solve the lack of doctors, is the opening of borders. I opened up with directors at the primary and secondary level and I didn't run into a resistance. True, the problem may be a shift in knowledge and knowledge of the language. However, these are the steps that could be taken in a year, year and a half to enable the number of citizens available for rural areas to reach the target. The question you mentioned somehow answers the Health Act. This provides in Article 8 that the network will have to be adopted. This network also includes demographically threatened areas among the conditions. However, in terms of the award of concessions, it introduces, on the basis of the network adopted, of course, a public invitation to tender and, in meeting the missing cities, unless the healthcare home of this programme is available, the concessionaire will also be able to take such places. In short, how do you solve it? The law will have to be adopted, the network will be maintained and the rural area will be able to be resolved with the personnel provided. Despite the optimism I have spent in these, almost three minutes, I must point out that, according to the available data that I have been able to verify in the last two, three weeks, in the missing cities, the specialists report mostly only in large cities. So, in a sense, very large cities are becoming where we come from, but also rural in some sense, and so additional incentives will have to be sought. The law stipulates that the primary level is in the complete domain of the municipality or more municipalities, in so far as the municipality itself cannot provide. In a sense, the responsibility of the State will only be to provide staff, to set criteria, and to which the congregation should provide incentives. So, at national level, the only option will be to stimulate them in rural, demographic or remote areas in such a way as to stimulate their full headship with fewer citizens than elsewhere. There are also no significant differences between mechanisms in other countries. In some ways, the full programme must address such a team to fewer citizens, especially because there is a great deal of work in the framework of home visits, preventive activities that can be carried out by outpatients in larger cities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u247	Mag. Tissel, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u248	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answers. I would also like to point out that the treatment of the Health Act is postponed, as there are several chapters in the law that are generally unacceptable for both the coalition and the opposition. Maybe for different reasons. One major misunderstanding is about concessions. The former Minister, Mr Miklavčič, who I asked him whether it would be possible to motivate doctors for general outpatients in remote areas with a concession and to show this job more attractive, replied that this would only mean redistribution of medical personnel from one place to another and therefore there would be no more doctors. But I think it doesn't matter if there's 20 doctors in a center, for example, and there's 21 doctors in a town that's almost 100% occupied, and there's a remote place where one doctor's seat is, and then there's practically nothing to be occupied. And if they get one doctor out of those 20s, there's a 100% supply of people in remote places, while only 5% will be known in the larger center. That is why I did not agree with his answer. That's why I'm interested, but I've also heard that the Germans also have 5, 10 thousand residents, problems with general doctors, they're being scholarshipd, etc. Perhaps you have already mentioned or already replied that he would then be in the congregations to give some further encouragement. What are those stimulations, or motivations, that attract? We know that in Slovenia we have heard recently, in the upper Drava Valley, in Bohinj, in Kranjska Gora, and in our area, in the Šentur municipality we have such an ambulance in Planina pri Sevnica, which is currently being handled by pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u249	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u250	Well, it's hard to add more to what you said yourself. In short, this commitment, which is contained in a resolution that could have fewer teams in the rural demographic area, is an extremely important incentive. This means that such a team could have only 1,200. The issue in marriage or direction is that, of course, it will be through the invitation to tender, and the congregation or more congregations will be able, unless such a remote medical home or a rural infirmary reaches, not least will it be possible for the concessionaire to collect it or to obtain it. In any case, perhaps too visionary, perhaps someday, very soon such ambulances will need to be shared, and we will have to somehow stimulate partial departures. Perhaps even a family doctor will work in two or three locations, as long as such a centralisation is possible, moving citizens to large cities. I have pointed out to myself that doctors today do not even choose to specialize in major cities at the primary level. In addition to all these incentives, it will probably be necessary to find others during the course of the study, and to conclude with this, even with Minister Golobic, we have agreed that we will invite and look at both Deans, try to find an opportunity to increase the entry, of course, this will bring an additional staff in ten years. I myself said that one of the important health policies would be to actually invest in the frame or knowledge - and why not, this could also be one developmental option for Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Majda Potrat will ask the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u252	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, ministers, Members, ministers. I will base my question on the month in which we live, and on the many events with which we remembered the first democratic and multilateral elections. At that time, the State has become a member of a number of international organisations based on the democratic regulation of the world and, in reviewing the objectives of primary education, it can be seen in Article 2, three indents, which also refers to what the objectives of primary education which raise awareness of nationality, national identity, behaviour about history and similar things, as well as education for the common cultural and civilisational values arising from European tradition. In the eighth year, there were talks about human rights education and tolerance. If we go to see Article 2 of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, as we amended Article 2 in March 2008, the development of awareness of nationality and national identity is also linked to the tasks to be carried out by educational institutions, which are supposed to develop this by marking public holidays, which are also part of the implementation of the Republic of Slovenia anthem and other activities. In this article, too, I am also asking you, Mr Minister, in my question. There is a lot of talk about the exchange between domestic education and civic education. When we look at the goals I have been talking about, it is only in primary school that we see a reflective and critical attitude towards the country and the separation between the state and the government, and that is why I ask you. Do you think that understanding and representing democracy in the educational process is appropriate for us? Does the Ministry of Education and Sport intend to encourage the special marking of the twentieth anniversary of the first democratic elections? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u253	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u254	Thank you. Mr President, Member, Members present, Minister, Minister. Thank you very much for the question that seems to me to be up to date, not just because we live in the month, as was said when the 20th anniversary of the first direct party elections is celebrated. Actually, there are two questions. One is about teaching and learning democracy and the other about what the ministry will do to celebrate this year's holiday. The first thing about democracy is from the experience and science involved in this area, it is clear that the teaching of democracy is best by practicing. That's why we changed the Law on Financing and Organising Education in June and brought the students back to the saints, the high schools and the student homes. It would be good to bring such things into all other schools, including primary schools, at appropriate levels. I think that the introduction of co-management forms and the strengthening of awareness of the importance of this would be the best journey of democratic education. Reducing democratic civic education only to domestic education, that is, raising pride and positive emotions when it comes to home country, is an important element of civic education, but that is not enough. In my opinion, the reduction is unjustifiable. True civic education also includes the practice of this activity, that is, democracy, not only in the management of the school, which I am talking about now, but also in the development of awareness of social, association and political life. I don't think it's right to talk about politics and about customers as something normal people don't have a choice. I think it would be right to develop within-party education as a parallel activity for political education past schools. Here we have some handicap as a country and it would be right to encourage and strengthen, in the light of some other countries of Austria, Great Britain and Germany, education, and thus the appropriate human resources policy of young people within the parties. But this is not a matter of direct school policy, but it is certainly one of the issues concerning education and mastery in democratic practices. The second issue was related to our actions at the Ministry regarding the celebration of the 20th anniversary of the first party direct elections. We've decided to make a call, a call on the subject of democracy. One address is linked to the assessment of democracy in the past 20 years and the other address is linked to democracy after 20 years, Slovenia says in 2030" and "we are born in democracy", says an address that reflects what students and students in the higher classes of primary school think about what is going on politically [[...]] [[a sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]] This call is also made in cooperation with the sponsors. This will be the best calls they will ever make. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Ma'am mag. Do you want an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u256	Thank you, Minister, for this part of the answer. We're thinking the same way. I hold in my hands a document called the European Union Strategy for Youth and discusses exactly what we should do to ensure that awareness of the importance of inclusion in decision-making processes is also carried out. I think we've done what's right at the level of both high and high school students. It is this area of action that young people are talking about in the public life of local communities at national level, but when I think about primary school students, I think this is a very good practice of the children's Parliament. Well, another document, called the 21st century School, speaks about the preparation of young Europeans for active citizenship and stresses the participation of young people in representative democracy. These are all the things he's trying to do in the school field, but I'd like to ask you for an opinion about another occurrence of this time. Young people, when referring to the rule of law, to respect for the Constitution, to the rights of young people, sometimes turn this around by actually failing to respect the legal system. I am referring to various public manifestations of young groups that do not express democratic values of tolerance, respect for human rights and all that are fuelled by democratic civilised societies. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I'm also referring to the appearance of obituary attacks, attacks on minority groups. [[...]] And that's the generation that went through the school process. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u257	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u258	Thank you. In fact, this issue also measures in one part the overall political situation. The school system is not all-powerful and all-powerful, so some political tensions in the country are also passed on to youth. Personally, I have no illusions or pretensions that the school system would succeed, especially when it comes to extreme groups with an appropriate curriculum to prevent such phenomena. If we have strong negatives in society, in one or the other extremes, political groups, which in some cases may not only be cited and in one way or another call people or even bite people - and youth is usually the first to do so - then, of course, it is impossible to expect the school system to be more successful than a successful policy. Of course, it is the task of the school system to give at least what is in its power some of the relevant knowledge and emphasis to which it expects, say, the healthiest part of the political body to develop youth. Such concerns and rejections will certainly still exist, but it is right that we are all aware together, and in the school field and in the National Assembly with all its elements and political parties and groups that exist here and also exist outside Parliament, that civic education is an important element in the creation of our better community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u259	Mr Milenko Ziherl will ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Rok Žarnić.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u260	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, a warm welcome to the ministers and ministers! I'm glad they're still in this number at this late hour. Despite the fact that the government has much work to do this week and that some in the government are also dealing with Wikipedia copying and the like, but it is very good that you are present. Dear Mr. Secretary! Air pollution is a serious and burning problem. I don't mean just greenhouse gases and other harmful gases here. Certainly, the increasingly pressing problem is becoming the fine dust particles we know under PM 10 and even smaller under PM 5. Combating or reducing this share is very difficult and requires decisive action because it strongly interferes with lifestyles and in some of the customs that we have taken and requires expensive investment by restoring technological parks and energy facilities. In the past, we have missed a lot in Slovenia, and that is why we are now facing lawsuits and appropriate financial penalties by the European Union. There may be more causes for these particles and it is likely that they could be combated in such a way as to act against those agents that contribute the largest proportion of emissions. So I ask you: What measures does the Government or your ministry propose to reduce the number of harmful particles that are harmful to health cause allergies and even some types of cancer at longer exposure? What measures is the Ministry preparing in the near future to improve air conditions and avoid the penalties that threaten us from Brussels?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u261	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u262	Thank you so much for asking. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! This is certainly a topical question, but the interestingness that we are experiencing today, why we do not fly the plane, with these particles also nature has richly endowed us these days unfortunately. However, this does not diminish the significance of our fight against what we ourselves do. And so our ministry prepared an operational programme adopted by the Government on 3 November 2009. On the basis of this programme, it is necessary to prepare, this preparation is currently under way, programmes of action, decrees which will be the basis for combating this pollution. These decisions are made in cooperation with local communities and ministries such as ministries of economy, finance and transport. We will prepare them in a short time, and the government will also accept them after intersectoral coordination, I believe. We will first prepare these programmes for the most polluted parts of Slovenia. This is the Sava region and the target area where particulate pollution is the highest level. Why do these particles occur? These are emissions from industrial sources, emissions from combustion plants to solid and liquid fuels, which are intended to heat residential and business spaces and emissions from transport, mainly diesel fuel vehicles and particle resuspension, which is due to traffic and I think is the hardest. I'll tell you right away why. There is a set of possible measures, but, as we know, when we had those IPPs, it is always painful for the one who is the ultimate cause. If I can list some such measures, you will see that any action is a problem, is resistance and are problems. If we are talking about combustion plants, we will need to give up in, say, two years and limit the use of stoves, solid fuels in urban environments. Imagine what that means. To prohibit the use of solid fuels to heat spaces in urban areas where remote heating and natural gas can be connected, to reduce the number of smaller boilers, to increase, to abandon the use of solid fuels in industrial plants and so on. At the same time, we encourage the use of biomass for heating. So there are some things here that are a little bit different. In the case of vehicles in traffic, I don't want to mention that we have a very strong motorists' union. Imagine fighting this category of economic activity. Then this is about cleaning roads and processing roads with chemicals to reduce dust resuspension. Chemicals are a different type of pollution. Reduction of dust emissions in construction works, promotion of different "carpooling" practices or that neighbors drive one car, improvement of public transport - railways, suburban trains. All of these are stories that we have been talking about for a long time, we have been listening to and it is very difficult to move because it is all related to the resistance of those who are affected, or rather substantial financial resources. There is no need to give up, it must be fought, but I would like to point out that we will have a few more questions here when we face specific problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u263	Mr. Ziherl, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u264	Mr. Secretary, with your answer, I am only partially satisfied. You're the one who's the minister, you're the one with your services that gives orders and actions. If you are always thinking about who will get hit by a bolt or who will jump up against these measures, then you are in great danger of doing nothing. There's always going to be a union. Then others will make, namely, the European Union, when it has sent ever more severe threats and, ultimately, the specific numbers that will have to be paid without getting anything. Otherwise, by sources, I think you have correctly defined them, as stated in the professional literature. One source would certainly mention the sources, that is, the combustion of natural gas. Already intensive household work can be dangerous for very sensitive people, and it advises asthmatics, because natural gas, although it is pure fuel in terms of greenhouse gases, is not in terms of these fine dust particles. This can be seen at home when cleaning the nape or cleaning these devices. I'm glad you didn't mention transit, which is very popular in the National Assembly, how to get everything on the railway and how to essentially close our motorways, even though we did. Transit has another property or against transit we speak because we do not know because trucks are moving across our territory without leaving any euro with us because we have too expensive petrol and other services are more expensive, so it is worth doing everything in Hungary or in Italy, Croatia, with our neighbours. You mentioned a double sword at biomass and public transport. But you'll be with the Minister of Transport because we've come to a contradiction, just like we did at this meeting. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u265	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u266	More of a comment. In my ministry, I have a different perspective: some people think I'm radical, not too mild. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u268	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Dear Minister, Dr. Roko Žarnic! In Slovenia we have started the organized collection of waste grave candles. The gathering shall be carried out in the manner required by the Ministry. Everything's fine here, but the containers are loaded and now no one's taking over these collected candles. The cemetery managers are in a lot of trouble with these wastes. I am sure that it took a lot of effort, work, knowledge and will to start working this way, but I do not think the matter is effective at the moment. That is why I ask you, Mr Minister: How could such confusion have occurred, such inefficiency? Who is responsible for the situation? Until when can we expect a solution and who will be responsible for it and what sanctions do you intend to impose against those responsible? As I have already mentioned, I am sure that this took a lot of effort and it is a shame that such mistakes have occurred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u269	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for confirming that some action has started well. It's a pretty simple matter. The point is that there is a regulation with us that defines everything well, that the debtors can take care of the whole chain themselves, or that they can unite between themselves and then give someone else a piece of this work. There was a merger with us and two players appeared in the whole game, namely, Saubermacher Slovenia and Prons, d.o.o., which was previously another company, Mojca Korbar s.p. The whole chronology is listed here, and I wouldn't read it. Apparently, these performers had some problems because they were not exactly part of the task. Not all formalities have been carried out in the same way as is necessary. And in order not to overexplain and sharpen, we expect the matter to be settled this month, April, with all these permits, finding locations, changing locations where it will be processed. I think we need to wait a little longer for these two companies to sort things out. But this question of yours is very welcome for me so that we can, as I say, push it a little bit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Čadež will ask the question of the Member of the Minister of Health, Mr Dorian Marusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u272	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear ministers, Madam Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! As early as last March, I asked the previous minister a question on the topic of emergency medical care in Škofjeloška. It is an area that is quite large, in two valleys, the Poljanska and the Selska Valley, covering over 500 square kilometres and also has over 40,000 inhabitants. However, with the new Regulation of November 2008, there has been a reduction, from 1.5 doctors to only one on-call doctor in emergency medical care. I received a reply from the Minister that the aim of the new regulation was to equalise all conditions. However, on the basis of the new regulation, a total of EUR 2.6 million was allocated additional resources. We also had a meeting with the Minister immediately next month. He said that the work of emergency medical care in Škopheloska would be monitored. And on this very subject was my question in the month of December last year. I was particularly interested in the results of the monitoring and how this was carried out. It is important to mention that there was a lack of income from Gorenjska's basic health care for around 60,000 euros. The four mayors in Škopheloska have found that the regulation needs to be corrected in this direction, where cities or urban settlements on the one hand or on the other are to be treated equally, and the countryside and that all these services must be made equally accessible to all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I wonder: For what reasons has the Commission decided to provide emergency medical care to the Ministry of Health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u273	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u274	Mr Milan Čadež, honourable Members, distinguished Members of Parliament, Ministers! When the Ministry is taken over, I can only give you a brief glimpse of what has been done in the area of supervision or implementation of the Control Rules. Maybe we'll start in the last year. The control carried out in this unit showed that, in fact, this unit was not supposed to operate within the recognised B strengthened, but even even only units B, it was supposed to be an organisational problem. Let me say that the Emergency Medical Regulation has been in force since 2009 and that the funds you mentioned have been fully financed by emergency medical care. Whether there is a gap, as you describe in your area, also elsewhere, will show the many controls being carried out. Currently, the Ministry has carried out 35 controls of 64 units and, on the basis of these controls, the network may change. Perhaps because of the need to develop new criteria on the basis of controls and perhaps some of those guidelines that might be interesting to you. Article 3 also introduces the tourist area as a possible criterion, and these would be those criteria which could further lead to the strengthening of this unit. Let me say that a B-strengthened unit means a day-to-day on-call medical emergency team which, in the event of an intervention, must have a unit on standby for another emergency. Such a job is also during the night when, in the event of an intervention in the field, a team standing by comes in. The organisation of the service shall be the responsibility of the Director of the School of Health or, if several units of several municipalities merge, the Director of the School of Health authorised by the Minister to carry out coordination. To sum up, it is actually difficult to establish that under the defined network, the criteria for B are a strengthened unit, the lack of resources to limit this service. According to the data shown by the controls, this is mainly a different factor: weaknesses in the organisation and lack of doctors, not so much in the lack of financial resources. Under the Regulation, public funds intended for emergency medical assistance from any source must be monitored separately and carried out strictly by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u275	Here you go. One more word, Mr. Chad.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u276	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary! Yes, it was, and the supervisory committee also proposed certain measures. For example, clear lists of team deployments. There were a few misunderstandings, then about funding the job, and about organizing the events. In due time, the hands and usability of the material and something else should be reviewed. I would like to point out that the assessment of this unit in Škofja Loka was assessed by an average evaluation. What bothers me is this: How was it that the organizer of this service was not aware of the results of the controls, this is Gorenjska’s primary health care? And I'm also interested in: When did the Supervisory Board check whether its proposed measures had been implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u277	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u278	Your Honor. I swear to God, I'll get you the answers. I couldn't get to know all the problems within a week. I know that the controls are under way and that the whole reorganisation is to be carried out after the remaining 29 controls. If I am allowed to do so, I can also provide you with these additional questions in a different form: Why was the responsible person not aware of the results of the controls? However, the assessment was even slightly worse than you claim. My answer is to point out that it is not the main problem with funding. A bigger problem may be the lack of doctors than I initially answered in the first question, and especially in the worse organization. However, I pledge to provide you with the answer to this question in the appropriate way or you will receive it from our professional services.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u279	Here you go, Mr. Chaddezh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u280	I myself note that there are quite a few problems with all areas of emergency medical care in Slovenia, and I also propose that a broader public debate be held on this topic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u281	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Member Milan Čadež to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Health to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 20 April, in the framework of the votes. Mr Andrej Magajna will ask the Minister for Health, Mr Dorian Marusic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u282	Nice greeting to all in attendance! Dear Minister Dr. Dorian Marusic. I want to know: Will former Minister of Health, Mr Borut Miklavčič, continue to carry out the ministry's work and tasks after his discharge? Which one? As stated in the interview, will he also advise you in the field of investment? So that my question doesn't sound too personal, even though it has this connotation, for sure, maybe another question: What will this resource look like, how will it address this issue of investment? I know that this is too wide a question, of course, here is the methodology, the question of the persons who will carry it out as well as the controls. See, this function of supervision in addition to the Ombudsman, the Ombudsman also has a Parliament. I must say that last year we adopted a regulation, or decree, where, in fact, we adopted numbers from the land book as part of all the many properties that will be sold by the ministries, including the Ministry of Health, but we did not know exactly what was going on. What will also contribute to the transparency of this area, such as real estate sales? I'm saying, I've broadened this question a little bit, but maybe in addition to a personal question, maybe one short sentence about what I've added. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u283	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u284	Dear Mr Andrej Magajna, honourable Members, Minister, Minister, I had no idea that the question would not be so easy because it would also be a very quick answer: Mr Borut Miklavčič will not be an adviser in this area, nor will he be an adviser at the Ministry of Health. Perhaps some part of our dialogue may have been caught when he made such a statement in a joke. The area of investment is one of the major problems of Slovenian health care. Unfortunately or fortunately, I would like to talk more about the health system, the regulation, the quality, the safety, the treatment processes than the buildings themselves. However, this is a duty, such is the legislation which determines that the Minister of Health is concerned about the infrastructure of hospitals or all operators at the secondary and tertiary levels that are under the ownership of the State. Since I took over the ministry, I've made some introductions to the team in this area, mainly due to a pressing problem with the Oncology Institute. My statement is also well known that I hope to reach an agreement here that certain irregularities will be resolved. This week, however, I will have a broader meeting with the team to examine what the dynamics of the use of funds are, not only the investment plans that are planned, we have a very important project ahead of us, and I hope that we will be able to place the emergency centres with our fellow Minister Gjerkesh, and in some ways there is an important eHealth project. We will try to motivate the current team to become more committed and even more intense at work, and it will probably be necessary to get additional colleagues. However, in any event, the thinking that a debate might have to be opened in the future is whether it is right for the Ministry of Health to take care of investments in all operators at a secondary level. I am very much in favour of those institutions that are of national importance, I am talking about tertiary institutions, but perhaps it should also be considered that investment plans with operators at the secondary level, I am talking about regional, general, special hospitals, maybe transferred to this level, this is one possible thesis, of course there should be appropriate analysis, legal basis, so that this possible orientation is not excluded. Alternatively, there would also be a need to think about setting up a company to take care of investments, in some way perhaps a future minister or minister would be burdened by concerns about investments and that a company would take care of the project. Why? I think hospitals will be different for the next decade than they are today. Today’s structure does not meet the challenges of the health system, the newer hospitals will have an extremely strong entry unit for the emergency unit, with strong diagnostics, with later access to the operating rooms and intensive units. This is going to be one big structure. In addition, the second branch, which we will have to develop in this mandate, will set up a network of nursing hospitals or hospitals for informal treatment. And then there's the third branch in which a specialized outpatient activity will be carried out. There are few or almost no hospitals that actually fit this process, as I mentioned. Some countries, some experience is in Europe, have undertaken the project in this way and have placed so-called modular hospitals where the hospital can move very quickly or transform into a different form depending on the needs_ either into a home of older citizens or into a nursing hospital with very simple changes. The idea is much, works even more, first of all it is necessary to strengthen the team and try to carry out the projects made within this mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u285	Mr. Magaina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u286	I'm just thanking you for the big one. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone.]] And thank you very much for your answer. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u287	Mr Samo Bevk will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Dr Rok Žarnić and Minister of Transport Dr Patrick Vlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u288	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In the Strategy for Spatial Development of Slovenia, the Resolution on Transport Policy and the Resolution on National Development Projects for the period until 2023, we also define the so-called development axes, the 3rd development axis, the 3rd development axis and the 4th development axis. I would like to highlight some problems with the modernisation of the state road network on the above-mentioned priority development axes. The fact is that we urgently need these development axes. In my view, they should be an integral part of the exit strategy from the crisis. Why? Much of Slovenia has become more accessible by building the highway cross. There has been a concentration of economic operators, concentration of knowledge and migration. Other parts of Slovenia, such as Northern Primorska, Idrijsko-Cerkljanska region, Koroška, Kočevska, Kozjansko and Obsotelje and Bela krajina, are permanently losing development potential because of poor traffic connections, so that development problems have already occurred in these environments or are not progressing as well as could. Some provinces will not be helped by the planned modernisation of Slovenian railways, since there is no railway or construction there. This applies in particular to the area of the 4th development axis in Idrija-Cerkljanska, in the Poljanska Valley and so on. All three of the largest developmental axes have a common feature that their placement in space is very long-lasting and ineffective. Thus, for example, to the question of the Member of the Council, Mr Bojan Kontić, in his previous mandate, Prime Minister Janez Janša replied that the 3rd development axis between Velenje and Arjo will start building the village in 2008 and is not yet placed in the room. We have the same story in the 4th development axis between Cerkni and Gorenje village, where the first spatial conference was held in 2006 and the competent environmental and transport ministry services have not yet established the appropriate accommodation. But, for example, the Idrian-logic leg of the 4th development axis. Although this section has been classified as a priority in the spatial development strategy of Slovenia, it took me three years in the previous mandate for the Government to include it in the resolution for the period 2007-2023. I ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr. Rok Žarnic, and the Minister of Transport, Dr. Patrick Vlačič: What measures will be taken to ensure the speediest possible completion of spatial placement and the start of construction of the 3, 3a and 4 development axes? However, the Minister of Transport, Dr. Patrick Vlačič, who is currently absent, please answer me at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u289	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u290	Your Honors are here! Dear Mr. Bevk! Thank you for asking. I wrote here that I have two and a half minutes to answer, but I'm on my own, and I'm gonna spend five minutes. I've got something ready here, and I'm gonna try to sum it up more freely. When I had my presentation before the committee, I made it clear to me as a citizen that what you have just said is one of the priorities that all of us have to worry about, two million. For the past two months, I've been talking a lot about it, thinking, taking action, and maybe just a few things that I think they can contribute. One is that at our ministry, together with the Ministry of Transport, we have introduced regular meetings of two ministers, Mr Vlačič and me, with teams to discuss and follow the progress of this project. These regular meetings are once a month, and sometimes there is another meeting. Perhaps one of the key issues in speeding up these projects is just to say that 15 VAT is in preparation, on the 3rd, 3rd and 4th development axes. One of these, the VAT for the Škofljica Oblast, is in realisation. However, I think that the key issue in this story is the law on placement in space, we have named it on line objects, we have extended it and it is a law on the placement of all spatial arrangements of state importance into space, it is said to be broader, not just linear. This law will bring some innovations that will have a tremendous impact on the preparation of plans, as some new land purchase solutions will be built in. Thus, it will not be possible for some very narrow interests at a very narrow section to delay even construction for a long time. This is one of the things that I personally think will contribute greatly. However, I must say that the preparation of the VAT is a rather difficult matter, professional and time-consuming. This is a matter of professional spatial planning, environmental protection, water management, conservation of nature, cultural heritage and many other elements, but these things can also be reduced by more intensive work if we reduce the problems I have mentioned. There's already a Minister Vlačič among us, and he might say something else. But I have informed you that we meet regularly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u291	Thank you. Mr. Wolf, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u292	Thank you, Chairman. I would only add that it seems important to me that we meet regularly with the Minister of Environment and Space in coordination with our teams and with our leadership will be at individual spatial locations where there are dilemmas, problems, troubles, whatever to solve, as we have resolved this on the Box quickly and effectively. That's why I think it's the right way, because for a long time, because of the different positions of the different national authorities, the thing was deliberating and there was no real solution. We are the ones who will accelerate, if we have to go to the government, if we have to, we will also go to the government with certain decisions. But you need to know that as long as there is no new legislation, until there are no other rules, we are bound to these hands, like now and miracles, we cannot work. We have made a distinction between everything that is happening on the development axes and in the National Assembly, and we have also presented this to the Committee on the Environment and also to the Transport Committee. And within those existing regulations that we now have at our disposal, we are working optimally and, as the Minister has already said, with a new regulation will, at least it is a wish that this will happen faster. This is set so that at least one third of the time would run faster.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u293	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u294	Thank you very much for both the answers to my question. But I'd still like to ask a further question. I asked the previous Minister for the Environment in January 2009. Since he wasn't at the meeting at the time, he answered me in a good month. I then argued that the previous government did not place any of the so-called development axes in the area between 2005 and 2009. Minister Karl Erjavec replied to me as follows: "But the Member's claim that no state spatial plan relating to roads on the third or fourth development axis has been adopted so far has been adopted." It is said that the entire mandate of the previous government was no place. That is why I welcome this decision on the monthly meetings of the two most competent ministers in this area, because I do not want the final proceeds to be such as that of the previous government, that it has not placed any route on these two or three development axes throughout the entire mandate. That's why I would really urge you to speed up these procedures as quickly as possible. One such case, such as the Box, is now somehow agreed upon. But we have in Idrijsko-Cerkljanski, this is on the fourth development axis, the location of the road between Cerkni and Gorenje village. It was already the first spatial conference in 2006, and there is no such placement today. I therefore appeal that we really speed up these projects and that development axes also become part of the Slovenian exit strategy, not just railways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u295	Does Vlačič want to answer, Mr. Žarnic? Here you go, whoever you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u296	As we have already said, we are trying, at least with the box we can boast and hope that the matter will run faster. But this is always the case, probably even when nothing was adopted, something had already happened. If we can say that we have now brought some things to an end very quickly, this does not mean that this is the product of our work alone, there is probably some history here that we are also righteous to those who have done it before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u297	Thank you. Mr. Wolf, would you like to? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Mirko Brulc will also ask the Minister for the Environment and Space, Dr Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u298	Good evening to all present. After us there is an extraordinary action by citizens and citizens Let us clear Slovenia in one day. An important role has been and is still being played by public waste management services. Exceptional amounts of waste are collected, which in many cases still need to be sorted in order for those to be disposed of as little as possible. The applicable legislation in the field of waste management, the real environmental taxation regulation, lays down the level of the environmental duty for those wastes that are subject to disposal. The environmental duty shall be the mandatory item and the burden of the agent. I think in this case the local community, because the owners of these wastes cannot be found. My question is: who will cover the environmental benefits: or the state, or the municipalities, or the municipal company? Certainly not the organizers, because they would be punished with it. Will the state require the payment of environmental benefits also in this action, which we know that we have contributed a lot of resources to the local community and we will have a lot of costs in the coming days? We still have bags of collected waste to be collected and taken to the landfill along the roads. I would like to point out that this was an extremely useful action, which at least twice a year would have to be to solve the problem of illegal waste disposal. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u299	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u300	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear Member! The matter is relatively simpler in practice than it is in theory. First of all, I would like to congratulate all the participants for their outstanding action, the organizers, the municipal companies, the municipalities, also the colleagues, I have seen many of them on TV, in the newspaper, so we have shown very nicely. Among the three actions carried out so far for the entire population, we are certainly ahead. And in 2012, when World Day comes, I think we'll do pretty well. Let's all give each other a little credit. In this story, if I say very simply, we can compare this to the annual shipment of cereal waste. In fact, it can be most easy to imagine that this was one of the slightly larger pieces of material exports and it is clear how things are going. It is likely that public services will settle the matter at the end of the year, and we will pay more than two euros on the billboards, which we will not see, and the money will go to the congregations. So it's a relatively simple thing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u301	Now, Mr Matevž Frangež will ask the Minister of Justice, Mr Aleš Zalar, a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u302	Your Honor, thank you very much. In early April 2007, a Slovenian citizen, at home from Maribor, followed the instructions of his employer and took over a sealed truck a day later and took him across several borders to Turkey, as instructed by his employer. In Turkey, he handed over the goods, thinking he was driving a glass cleaner. After a few minutes of this unloading, he was arrested by Turkish police. I do not want to judge whether that Slovenian citizen is guilty or innocent, but I would like to point out that in this case I think that the aid that the Republic of Slovenia should provide to every Slovenian citizen has been denied. In Turkey, this Slovenian citizen has been imprisoned since 4 April 2007. According to his claim, as described in the letter, he appears to be imprisoned in impossible conditions, barely receiving medical attention, in fact sharing his cell with 200 other prisoners. What is even more worrying is that during all this time he was not charged with not being given a detention decision and that he had not been given an appropriate interpretation in all this time. Just as an example. The Court provided him with an interpreter in Macedonian, arguing that the Slovenian and Macedonian languages are similar, you will already understand. Even at the beginning of the process, he was not provided with a lawyer, so I can conclude that in this case there have been serious violations of the European Convention on Human Rights, as well as the Turkish law on criminal proceedings. He was not aware of the content of the criminal offence which he was aware of; he was not provided with a translator; he was not provided with a lawyer in a substantial part of the proceedings; the court rejected him by saying that he was a foreigner; he was imprisoned in impossible circumstances; twice at the hearing the court was not brought in because the military had no means to do so. I therefore ask the Minister of Justice: How did the competent authorities of the Republic of Slovenia react in this particular case? Why did the Republic of Slovenia not provide multiple legal aid, as well as translation during the trial? How can the Republic of Slovenia today, at the time of an illegal conviction, help this Slovenian citizen in this particular case? How we will ensure that Slovenian citizens are guaranteed what they are doing under international law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u303	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u304	Thank you very much, Your Honor. This is a combined response from two ministries, which also have combined powers in such a case. To summarize part of the response prepared by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry recalls that no embassies and even the specific embassy in Turkey can assume the role of representative of a citizen before a court, and that is why there is no one in this particular case. It holds the information that the detention must have a lawyer in accordance with Turkish law. Of course, I cannot assess whether this right has been violated or not. It's a matter of open procedures. However, the Slovenian citizen was aware of these options, even when it comes to the exercise of rights arising from the European Convention on Human Rights, given that Turkey is a party to this Convention and is bound by the Convention. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs further explains that it has been in constant contact with the detention that this contact was made in 2009, for example, three times and will be completed in the coming month. However, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not have any legal basis to pay the costs of an advocate, translation or otherwise finance the defence of an individual in proceedings before Turkish courts. There is no legal basis for this and there is no budgetary basis for this. With regard to the Ministry of Justice, however, I can explain that this Ministry plays only the role of the intermediation body in matters of mutual legal assistance between individual countries. Even when it comes to this particular matter, such legal aid would be taken into account because it is a criminal matter. What Slovenia can do in this case is linked to the completion of the criminal procedure. This criminal procedure has not been completed. And until the legal framework is completed, it is not possible until the transfer of the convicted person to the Republic of Slovenia for the sentence to be carried out. Such a transfer of sentence may, however, always be initiated only at the request of the affected country, never after the official duty or even less at the request of the individual interested country. In other words, the Ministry of Justice does not have jurisdiction in matters of international legal aid, and in particular not in relation to a specific judicial procedure which is still open. We too can only find that in such cases our legislation and the international convention do not provide a basis for a different intervention by the State, in particular in the form of direct assistance in terms of financing or providing a lawyer and translation. When this judgment is legally binding, Slovenia will, of course, pay attention to the fact that the deadlines set by Turkish legislation will not be exceeded, in particular, for the appeal procedure, a period of half-second year when an individual may be detained. And a judgment must be issued during this period. If everything goes as planned under Turkish law, then the conditions for a convict's application, if convicted, will be met for the transfer of his prison sentence to the Republic of Slovenia. Then, of course, we will do everything in our power to help him run this process quickly and effectively. I can give this assurance here, as Minister, that if this situation arises, then I will personally take my stand with the Turkish Minister of Justice to see that this procedure is carried out. Slovenia and Turkey, the Slovenian and Turkish justice ministries have established a correctional relationship within the Council of Europe in recent months, which gives me confidence that such a transfer of sentence is actually possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u305	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Frangezh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u306	Dear Mr. Secretary! Thank you for the lesson, but I am afraid that this does not help Slovenian citizens who might find themselves in a similar situation. I am convinced, judging by what the detained citizen of the Republic of Slovenia claims to be a clear violation of at least the European Convention on Human Rights in this case. I think it must be the interest of Slovenia to ensure that Slovenian citizens are respected under international law in such cases. Therefore, of course, I am dissatisfied with the answer, and I think that the interest of the State in this and similar cases should be more than merely to ensure that the convicted person is transferred from the country where he is tried to be to Slovenia. Why? Because clear shortcomings, imaginative and procedural shortcomings in this case indicate that there is a serious suspicion or, if you want, fear that it is not judged justly. Among other things, the Turkish court refused to obtain documentation of the investigation on this subject, which was carried out in Slovenia, where one judgment was also given and which could, in the opinion of the accused, certainly help to relieve the accused. And something else, given that we do not have this fund to help Slovenian citizens in similar cases, I suggest that we consider its introduction. The relatives of this Slovenian citizen have lost confidence in the fact that Turkey is a civilized country, as well as in that the Republic of Slovenia is providing them with adequate assistance in their efforts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u307	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Since the answer has not satisfied you, I must repeat once again what I said in the introductions. No binding international legal act, nor any of our domestic legal acts, gives us the basis for direct defence, in particular the defence of those affected by judicial proceedings in other countries. Turkey has problems in ensuring the right to a fair trial within a reasonable time frame, including a fair trial. There's no doubt about that. This is confirmed by the rich case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Slovenia is paying attention to this and our diplomatic representatives are monitoring such cases, in particular the one you mentioned. In any event, Slovenia shall provide the persons who find these procedures with information on what rights they may exercise in this procedure, on the basis of which, in particular international treaties, and in the specific case of the European Convention on Human Rights, the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment; we shall always examine as a country our citizens on the possibility of going through a prison sentence, by jurisdiction, I emphasise, the judgment if such a judgment is reached. In any event, Slovenia also provides assistance to citizens in transferring this penalty through our diplomatic and consular offices. This is also all, and Slovenia can do so in relation to anyone, in any country where such proceedings against a Slovenian citizen take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u309	Thank you. Franc Jurša will ask the Minister of Defence Dr Jelusičev a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u310	Thank you for your words, Mr Vice-President, a nice greeting to our colleague and colleagues, who are still persistent, as well as to the representatives of the Government, ministers and ministers. In the Republic of Slovenia, we are witnessing an increasing number of natural disasters, including the loss of human lives and serious material damage; let fires, floods, reptiles, traffic accidents always come to the rescue of volunteer rescuers, especially volunteer firefighters. [[...]] In Slovenia, it has been providing its assistance to as many as one hundred and forty thousand volunteers who are willing to sacrifice their lives if it is necessary to help complete strangers who are in trouble. Among these volunteer paramedics are the most voluntary firefighters, whose voluntary firefighters have a tradition in Slovenia for over a century. Existing legislation defines firefighting as a humanitarian activity and voluntary firefighting companies as humanitarian organisations. Voluntary firefighters shall also carry out a compulsory fire department designated by the competent municipal authority. Despite the good work done by volunteer firefighters and other volunteer rescue workers, they face problems in the regular ministry, as many employers do not have a hearing ear for the obligations that such volunteering brings. Any action taken by a volunteer at a time when he should be on the job, i.e. the employer is caused by a loss of income. Of course, this is especially so now when employers are also in difficult economic conditions. Thus, many employers resist the employment of voluntary rescue workers and firefighters because they fear possible income losses. Thus, in addition to our current recognition, it is necessary to arrange for a certain percentage of the loss of profits and to arrange additional insurance for voluntary firefighters or rescue workers. When we discussed the proposal for a new Firearms Act a few months ago, you committed yourself to your ministry, in cooperation with other ministries, to prepare a proposal for a new law on protection against natural and other disasters, as well as tax and insurance legislation to address the issue of voluntary firefighting or rescue. So I ask you: When will the amendment of the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters be prepared? I would also like to ask: How is the tax and insurance legislation announced? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u311	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u312	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question, Mr Member. As soon as we discussed the complementary Fires Act at the beginning of February, we found that resolving the situation of volunteers and all rescue workers in general is not so easy that we can resolve it with a single law and very fast measures will not work. We have already predicted that, as you have found, it will be necessary to cut into several types of legislation and that it will be a system of very complex issues. At this point in time, we are working on three points in the Government, probably knowing that we have already adopted an annual plan for the implementation of the national programme of protection against natural and other disasters, which we have also sent to the congregations, and I suppose you are already aware of that. Then, at the moment, the Red Cross Act is inter-departmental coordination, in which at local level we regulate the financing of the operations of volunteers in first aid teams and at those points where the Red Cross works. This means that we are also trying to stop or resolve some of the financing dilemmas for those volunteers that we have in this segment of the system of protection against natural and other disasters. The third point on which we are working right now is the drafting of a new law on protection against natural and other disasters. We announced in February that this novel will bring us into the legislative body in June, and that is still our goal. Things are going a little slower in the area of insurance and tax rules. When it comes to tax regulations, we have given priority to those regulations that address the problem of economic recession in the government and those rules, i.e. tax rules that stimulate the employment of volunteers, come in the turn, we suppose, in the autumn. As far as insurance is concerned, the situation is next. At this point, you know that there is a law on disability and pension insurance in preparation and at this point we are also trying to apply certain principles concerning the regulation of the situation of volunteers. As for the remaining aspects, such as the Health Care Act and the like, it will be necessary to wait for the relevant law or bill to be prepared and we will also find a suitable place for our solutions there. The most important law to say a word is, of course, the amendment of the law before natural and other disasters, where we are preparing changes at four points. You know, and you have already rightly warned that employers - and the relationship between volunteers and employers - have been said to be in fact the most critical. This is a question of stimulating the work of our volunteers or operational paramedics. Therefore, their work at the time of intervention is already ensured that employers receive a refund for lost wages and parts of those funds or costs that go towards salaries. The second part, which we want to arrange in the amendment of the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, concerns 20% compensation for loss of profits at a time when our lifeguard is in intervention. The second item to be settled is the compensation for a lifeguard’s salary for a sick or ill condition that occurs when he is at an intervention and is injured by an intervention. The third point that we want to settle or now write in the amendment is a special or additional emergency insurance for those voluntary operational firefighters who we refer from one area to another in case they replace or are a reserve for assistance in the affected areas. And the fourth point at which we are supplementing the law concerns some of the training programmes that we are going to implement, which we assume we can carry out - including health checks, because health checks were at the time we discussed in February. Therefore, both the training programme and the health review would be arranged for voluntary rescue workers at national level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u314	However, I will say that I am satisfied with the answer, but I will take advantage of it and say: Madam Minister, I expect that, in the month of June, this amendment of the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents will also come to Parliament. If not, I'll ask the question again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u315	Thank you. Would you like another word, Madam Secretary? No, no, no. Mr Vinko Gorenak will ask the question of the Minister for Home Affairs, Mrs Kresalov. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, we are less likely to face parliamentary issues, at least here in the National Assembly. This time I think it's after six months again. Look. The reorganisation of the Ministry of the Interior or the police, which you have announced in the past year - I am aware that this is an extremely demanding process, I myself will say, one such process led by the spending assistance of the Minister at the time. This was a slightly different time in the police and the Ministry of the Interior than we are living today, especially from a legal point of view. It was a time when the interior ministry actually had police powers, and with this higher salary and everything else, I'm going to say, from secretaries, doctors, gunmen, and I don't know who else. It was a time when we took away 500 people's police powers and put them in civilian jobs. I had a lot of problems and problems at the time myself, so I have to say the following. Last year you announced such a very large reorganisation of the interior minister and the police, when the law on police was passed, you said quite cynically to me that I did not realize how few police officers were in the interior of the state dealing with general security tasks. Notwithstanding this statement, I have, however, supported you in some conversation with you and then in the ministry and also in one of the questions sent, and said that I support you on this path and that I wish you much success. I hope that I will be able to do so again at the conclusion of the question today. There's something you need to say. You have announced one fundamental issue, namely the reduction of so-called non-operational jobs in favour of operational jobs. On one occasion, your Secretary of State spoke about 1,000 jobs to move into the operational area. He even said something like that, the police for the new year 2010 will never be the same as they were. I don't have any information about what happened at the time. I ask for this information on the occasion of this question. Above all, what was the relationship between operational and non-operational jobs in the police at the time you took over the management of this station, and what are they like today? I'd say, in particular, I'm not interested in moving jobs from the police to [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] to the Ministry of the Interior, because that is not the real question. [[...]] The real issue is an increase in the operational number of jobs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u317	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u318	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Member. As you yourself said and you know, the reorganisation project is a very extensive and demanding project, which has led us to it gradually, deliberately and in two stages. First, the reorganisation of the General Police Administration. The completion of this work was foreseen and planned as of 1 January 2010, will be implemented from 1 June 2010 and subsequently by police administrations. We have made changes at the top this time and will continue to the level of police administrations. The key objective that we will achieve through the reorganisation at the level of the General Police Administration, first of all the first part, is to rationalise dispersed work processes, concentrate specialised services, eliminate duplication of work areas, ensure a more effective system of governance and share of responsibility, and not least strengthen operational operations on the ground. More important regional targets, however, include greater independence of police directors and police station commanders, reduction of administration and strengthening of the operational segment. The longevity and gradual application of changes is also due to some degree to unfinished projects in the past, to partial solutions that have been implemented over a long period that have only partially solved the current organisational problems faced by the police, or to security conditions, as well as the takeover of Schengen obligations at the external borders. Since the project is still ongoing and will be implemented over a period of two years due to its complexity and scope, all the results so far are only partial. We haven't talked about thousands of jobs, either. According to our official forecasts, this number was missing. However, this mentioned a reduction in the number of posts on the General Police Administration by about 5%, which was also achieved in the first phase, despite the fact that, in the context of the unchanged staffing plan, we had to provide a job for the National Investigation Office and its protection, for the specific tasks sector, for the Centre for Computer Forensics and additional jobs at the same centre. These are jobs that are exclusively operational. Police administrations and police stations have partially strengthened their personnel by new employment of operational police officers and by retraining Schengen police officers. In 2009 alone, 365 police officers, 42 of them uniformed and 323 uniformed, and 205 of them uniformed and 200 in 2010. The largest number of police officers were employed at district police stations, 183 in 2009 and 173 in 2010. In addition, a total of 233 police officers were deployed from so-called Schengen units to units inside the country in 2009 and 11 police officers in 2010. The largest number of police officers were transferred to regional police stations, 201 police officers in 2009 and 7 police officers in 2010. The final figures at the level of police administrations will be available immediately after completion of the project at the regional level and after evaluation of the entire project. As I say, once again, it's two stages, the first one ends, the second one just starts. The whole project will be completed in the next two years, and then I will be able to talk about concrete and final numbers and see if we have been successful.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u319	Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u320	Thank you. Nevertheless, I would still take advantage of the time that is somehow available. The point is, "The police will no longer be the same as they were," as the Secretary of State has stated. Thus, this situation has not yet been achieved or has not yet been achieved. I understand that, too. I fully accept that. As extensive as you've set up the matter, I can tell you today that I can congratulate you in two years if you reach it. Nevertheless, I do not think that, to the extent that the Secretary of State has spoken, it is realistic, in any case. In short, we don't have a 5% reduction in the GPU - okay. I welcome the part where you talked about the greater autonomy of police stations and police administrations. In my opinion, this is crucial for you to be able to reduce at national level, because otherwise you will never decrease at national level unless you give greater decentralisation and, of course, greater powers to police commanders and police directors. When on regional level? Still, I'd like to have an answer. Is that two years now or what? Maybe a note, 233 officers from the Schengen border. I suppose they were replaced there with others, weren't they? In fact, if they weren't replaced, then you're breaking the Schengen rules. This is only well-intentioned, although we know that other countries have also violated them. That's true. So, if I understand you correctly, we can expect a result, a final result within a year or two. However, the aim, as you said, is to increase jobs in the operational area and reduce jobs on the General Police Administration. If things go this way, if you tell me there's not gonna be a thousand, I'll be just happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u321	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u322	Thank you very much. As I said in the introductions, we are counting on the project to be completed within the next two years. The first part, the reorganisation of the General Police Administration, I predict it will be in early June of this year. The next, which is likely to be even more demanding and even more extensive, is the reorganisation of the regional level of the police administration, after what is said, over the next two years. It's a really extensive project that can't be tackled headlessly. He's got to be very thoughtful, very progressive. You know, you've been working on this system. It's a lot of people, a big machine, a repressive machine that doesn't change overnight, so we took our time. I am aware that this is a demanding project. We'll probably be able to congratulate each other in the end when he's finished. I believe that and that one of the effects of this project will also be to increase the number of operational jobs at the expense of the non-operational. I can't predict a specific number, I hope it's as big as possible. But then I'm sure the picture and the way the police operate will be different than it was before. And I believe that's our common goal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u323	Thank you. Mr Milenko Ziherl wants to ask Dr. Krizanič, Minister of Finance, who is not present. You're still going to ask a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u324	Yes, I'm going to ask Minister Križanič a question and I want an oral answer at one of the next meetings, probably at the next. For a little while. The question is about the income decisions we are receiving, some of which we have already paid, but these are the following. The main items in these decisions are receipts in the current year, contributions paid and an advance on income. In view of the fact that we have heard alarming information that social security contributions have not been paid to a variety of companies, only on paper have they been shown, but not actually paid to an appropriate addressee. The same was true of the receipts. I ask the Minister: How do I come up with the legality of the income decisions because the financial flows did not follow the prescribed paper flows? Regrettably, we have non-payment of income contributions and advances in even such eminent companies, whose board presidents play a high role in the Chamber of Economics. So, I ask the Minister: How will he take action to actually execute what was shown on paper alone? Therefore, the Ministry of Finance will recover money from the debtors, either for an income advance or for social contributions. In addition, I would like to have more answers on some of the irregularities in the collection of taxes that we have been alerted to through the media, especially in the newspaper Finance, as well as in the context of sent offices and data from the field. Tax recovery is improving, but now peripheral channels are being looked for again in times of crisis. So, let's say that even the Barsos clinic reported a small income as well as some self-employed craftsman laying tiles or parquet. We know that 40 highly specialised health workers worked in Barsoso without the proper permission of the Clinical Centre or institutions where they were employed, but they preferred to work in Barsoso than on duty for 1,500 euros a day. So if they didn't make anything there, they probably turned over more money and couldn't be there. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u325	Thank you. The Minister will answer to you at the next meeting. Mr Ivan Grill will ask the Minister of Health, Mr Marusic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u326	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, Minister, Mr. President! Dear Mr. Secretary! As soon as you entered this mandate or this function last week, I have announced that you have a difficult job ahead of you and a number of unregulated health situations, which also shows this question I am now asking you. As early as December 2009, we called an urgent meeting of the Health Committee, where we addressed the pressing problem of small pharmacies, as it is known that in 2009 the health insurance company reduced the participation of medicines in the green prescription, which is a number of medicines, especially small pharmacies, then put it on the verge of doing business. I don't know if there was a case like this, but there is a great danger that it will be necessary or that small pharmacies will even have to stop their business. This applies both to concessionaires and to small pharmacies of public health institutions. In the debate, which was thorough, professional, with many arguments, your predecessor, Mr Miklavčič, also agreed, and in the end, we decided unanimously that the Health Committee should propose to the Government and the Ministry to seek with all partners a suitable funding model so that this small pharmacy would not face problems further. As I know, nothing has settled in this area in these four months, so I ask you now: Have you faced this problem at this time? On the other hand, have you obtained information about what has been done or how this pressing issue will be handled further so that we do not have to be confined to rural areas in remote areas or towns, in rural areas, to places or pharmacies? Because already the inhabitants of such areas are affected by a number of problems, from road, utility, telecommunications infrastructure, so that they do not now receive even to stop small pharmacies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u327	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u328	Honourable President, Honourable Member, Member of Parliament, Members, Fellow Minister, Minister. The answer is: not entirely yes, but we are already dealing with the problem. It is currently preparing Annex 1 for the 2010 general agreement. For the government has accepted a directive to in some way increase efficiency in hospitals and thus save the necessary funds allocated to the secondary level in last year. In this Annex 1, we are also preparing a model that is expected to in some way be based on the assumption that fewer services are also provided in smaller pharmacies in rural areas. The model goes on to change the value of the point and to divide pharmacies into five categories and in some ways from those who do more services, certain funds are transferred to those pharmacies that have fewer services. In this way, the model would be levelled. The only problem is that it is not entirely a direct link between rural, so-called pharmacies, which are also outside the larger areas, and also pharmacies that have fewer services. In short, the model is made, I have quite a few concerns, and with the expert team, I will have to complete a model in the coming weeks or two. Which way? Of course, one option would be to ensure the stability of the operations of these pharmacies, or to provide some funds for employees in these pharmacies. In any event, ensure accessibility for citizens in these pharmacies as well. It's better than two weeks ago when we were talking, the model is coming. I'm not happy with him myself. It might happen that they would participate in those pharmacies or acquire those pharmacies that aren't rural. In short, I hope you'll be familiar with the model in the coming months. In any case, I'm not predicting a good exit to Annex 1. This means that we will then introduce a model that will discharge this task that the ministry has received on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u329	Thank you. Mr. Janez Fishich. Yeah, you're here. He will ask Mr Gjerkeš, the minister who is present. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u330	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Minister, ministers, welcome. Dear Mr. Secretary. On 5 March 2010, I addressed a written question to Dr Pogačnik's Minister, who, in view of the termination of his post, became irrelevant and so irresponsible. I don't know why I got his answer on one of the questions I asked in writing on the same day. I believe you can't answer this question, although the answer is on its own, but I hope that you will answer at least the following questions: Was it really June 2006, that is, three months after the four Bulmastif attacks on a passing citizen, Mr. Meglič, on Orazm Street in Ljubljana, on behalf of the Breeding Commission, an instigated review for these same Bulmastiffs? When exactly did this examination take place? Which one of these dogs that attacked Mr. Meglic was the subject of a breeding examination? Who, on behalf of the Mollusk Breeding Commission, carried out a thorough examination? Exactly which one of these dogs got their breeding license? With what date was the reared permit issued? And: Who is the undersigned or betrayed? Have the reared licences been extended two years after the issue? What date? Who is signed under the decision to extend the breeding licence? Were all the above procedures properly followed in the issue of a breeding permit and all other rules of the Kinological Association of Slovenia and the Slovenian Club for Large Breeds and Moose? Is it clear that the parents of two of these Atlas and Athos Bulmastifs should have attacked other dogs at least once before they were cornered? I'm aware that the questions, because I've been dealing with this thing ever since last year, are of great importance, so thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u331	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u332	Thank you, Mr President, honourable Members, Member of Parliament. I hope I will not disappoint you with my answer, but I must tell you that neither the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food nor the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia confirm breeding permits for dogs. The breeding licence is granted by the Cinological Association of Slovenia on the basis of its own rules and international standards. This activity does not have any powers from the ICGP or the VURS, so I cannot answer those questions relating to the issued authorisation because we are not responsible for this information. But I can tell you that according to VURS, the dog Joy and Night's last Zore Rotar attacked another dog. Seven. 2002. Hound Joy once again attacked another dog and its owner on April 1, 2003. So both attacks took place before 15. 3. In 2006, when the dogs attacked Mr. Meglic. Therefore, VURS does not have data on the related relationship of dogs owned by Zora Rotar and Sasa Beričevič, these data are relevant for breeding authorisations issued by the Cinological Association and have these data in their possession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u333	Thank you. Would you like a supplement, Mr. Ribič? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u334	Thank you. Somehow, I was expecting an answer, but perhaps I would like to continue, Mr Minister, thank you for this information, as far as you have given me, which in many ways reveal another additional aspect of the correctness and legality of the process of returning two dangerous dogs to the owner. Dear Minister, how is it possible, according to the Slovenian legal system, that a dog that almost to the death bites someone while preventively to further decisions is imprisoned in an animal shelter, obtains, say, this breeding permit? In my opinion, the dog, which shows signs of offensiveness or aggressiveness, must not obtain such permission and cannot obtain it, as this would mean the possibility of transferring such offensive genes to offspring. According to these observations or answers to the questions raised, do you also believe in such a well-established and elevated expertise, independence, impartiality of the three-member panel of experts, given that one of the members participated in this unhygienic and immoral process of issuing a parental permit? I am thinking, of course, of the expert committee, based on the opinion of which the Ministry is a dangerous dog 22. 6. return to the owner. In doing so, I asked last year the first parliamentary questions with a desire and purpose for the safety of people against dangerous dogs. I was hurt by the tragedy that happened because they didn't listen to me. I've even been ridiculed if I don't have anything better to do. At this point, I will inform all candidates for the Minister of Agriculture and the President of the Government that, as long as I am a member of the National Assembly, I will ask so long from the competent ministries and services that all unanswered questions and hidden information will be made public. Believe me, even to the answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u335	Thank you. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u336	Thank you. I agree with you that there has been a tragedy. Your question shows that the answer is also multi-layered and complex. What can I do in this case, right now? I can make sure that the authorities dealing with this - so I will ensure that all the information they need in this regard is obtained at the Ministry of Agriculture. I can assure you that, unfortunately, not at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u337	Thank you. Madam Minister Shirca, your questions are not here.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u338	Allow only so much that I would like to have in future Members and Members, whom we have been waiting for a few hours to respond to their wishes, secondly or messages, or insist that they also receive the answer that I would be happy to give if the Member were here.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u339	Yes, I agree. We don't know why she's gone, or we don't know when there's no ministers, why, and we don't judge them until we know the reason. Mr Franz Puksic will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u340	Which is another one of four or three Members and Members of Parliament here. A nice welcome to the distinguished minister who has finished her work, and, of course, to the ministers, vice-presidents and the services you insist on! Dear Minister! I want to know: Who, in accordance with the legal order and the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in Slovenia, is competent to determine the unconstitutionality and illegality of individual regulations, acts and actions? The fact that Barbara Brezigar is in violation of the Constitution, I can tell you the following. Even the former Constitutional Judge Ude, who persistently defended you, said: "It is obvious that both Minister Zalar and Katarina Kresal used a heavy expression. I don't know where you saw it." This statement was also published on Saturday evening in Ultra on TV Slovenia. Barbara Brezigar didn't break the law either. The law says that the prosecution has to prosecute the perpetrators of crimes. I recall when I led the investigative commission that Prosecutor Bricelj, when the investigative commission asked him to prosecute the judge at the time - or he was already a lawyer - Mr Šubic, who, as you know, had not written the verdict for nine months, wrote in his reply to the then Minister of the Interior "her, Mr Minister, I will not do that because I would come into the slippery area". In short, it's a violation of the law and the constitution, because it gives him a task after the constitution, of course, to prosecute the perpetrators of crimes. Barbara Brezigar, on the other hand, merely encouraged a police officer with whom she communicated to investigate an event. I would, of course, have acted unlawfully if I were to obstruct and fail to comply with the legal provision that the prosecution must do its job. Here I am reminding you of the event that took place in 1999, when then Attorney General Zdenka Cerar banned the indictment in the case of Drag Kos regarding the wiretap to journalist Ranc. This was contrary to the legislation and, of course, to the Constitution which imposes it, not if the Attorney General encouraged the work to be done properly and as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u341	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u342	Thank you very much, Your Honor. All state authorities are obliged to respect and apply both the Constitution and the laws relating to each area, including the Government, including the Minister-General, as well as the Attorney-General. There's no difference between us here. The problem arises when we are faced with a situation where the rules laid down by the National Assembly, either in the highest act, are not applicable to everyone and are not applied to all the same things in the Constitution or in laws. This problem is particularly exacerbated when a situation is established that rules are not applied equally to public officials. That is why, as Minister, in particular when it comes to judicial officials, I am particularly sensitive to this issue. There can't be irresponsible officials in this country, there can't be, there won't be. All of us who work, regardless of our functions, are bound by certain regulations to respect the Constitution and the law. Any of us who commits an offence must be held accountable for it. No one in this country can be held responsible for their actions or for their resignations. Since you asked me about a particular matter, it will be time to discuss everything you have highlighted. At this point, I can only say that the competence of the Minister of Justice under the State Prosecutor's Act in relation to the Judicial Act is to determine whether any of the judicial officials who manages matters or the judiciary or the State Prosecutor's Office has violated the law in their work. The Law on the Courts and the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office specifically define which are the violations that a person may commit in his work and which may also result in a loss of office or position. This responsibility of the Minister of Justice has been exercised, the report on violations is final, and this is the exclusive competence of the Minister, which is also his responsibility. It can be properly implemented by the National Assembly. And that is all there is to it, who and how it is to apply or respect the Constitution. Who is the ultimate representative of the constitution, that's what we do know. These are the courts. This is the Constitutional Court, this is the Supreme Court, these are also lower, regular courts; all are obliged to respect the Constitution and the laws in their work, the difference being that the Constitutional Court is in a special position because it can also exercise an abstract assessment of the laws, and this does not apply to the regular judiciary. However, if the National Council for Constitutional Change supports the situation of the Constitutional Court, it will also be possible for the regular judiciary to assess the constitutionality of the acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u343	Thank you. Mr. Pukšič, would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u344	Mr. Secretary. In fact, you partially answered me, so that the determination of unconstitutionality belongs to the Constitutional Court. You just said that in the end, and I agree with you. Perhaps I too expect to hear from you that perhaps this statement of yours was a little too soon or something when you yourself assessed and found that the Attorney General violated Article 135 of the Constitution. However, after this response, I do have a feeling that you've gone a little behind on this. I agree with you that you have to be held accountable for the mistakes that have been made. I might be a little uncomfortable, though. It is unusual that your brother, a longtime judge, made such a mistake, but the famous Slovenian lawyers spoke about it again and were simply amazed. Now, as Minister, as you have carried out emergency surveillance of the prosecution, would you expect to have the same vats, would you? - that this urgent emergency control should also be carried out in the administrative court as to what has happened, as we know that it was precisely the resignation of Minister Pogačnik who referred to the judgment, which was made by mistake, as the judge himself admitted.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u345	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u346	Thank you very much. So, I must be very dissuasive when commenting on specific court decisions, with the difference that when decisions are legally binding, I am obliged to point out that a judicial judgment is the right judgment, even if a lawyer disagrees with it. For the judgment may be corrected, may be amended, may be repealed, may be abolished, but only by an appropriate court instance, no one else can bring it out of the world. And in the case you mentioned, it is a situation where no court has intervened in this judgment. This judgment is legally binding, so it binds everyone, binds all state bodies. However, when it comes to the issue of judicial supervision, I must remind you of one important difference. The Minister of Justice shall have certain supervisory powers in relation to the so-called judicial administration or the state prosecutor's office. These are the tasks carried out by the highest judicial officials, those who run individual judicial bodies. This does not mean that the Minister has the right to exercise control even when it comes to making concrete decisions - neither prosecutors nor judges. However, this issue of the quality of judicial decision-making is reserved to the judiciary itself, for which we have special institutes, for which are the official controls exercised by the Presidents of the Courts, not by the Minister, and the regular evaluation carried out by the Personal Councils of the Courts, not by the Minister. In short, there are important limits for the executive branch of power and, of course, there cannot be a minister who exercises any control or may require it. Although such attempts have been in the past, the former Minister has tried this, but the Council of Justice has made several fundamental decisions to overstep the Minister's powers if he tries to exercise control in such cases, so I cannot and must not repeat this mistake of my predecessor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u347	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u348	Mr. Minister, you're a lawyer, I'm not a lawyer, but I've consulted with lawyers on this. If they told me it was possible, as in the case of the prosecution, to carry out emergency control, then I don't know why you didn't do it to the work of the administrative court. Of course, this does not mean over judgment; judgment is judgment, but over work, where we would probably find out what was found. But somehow the sense in the public would be that the minister, no matter where he sits, has the same vat as the minister, that the judgments of our courts are in our own country as they are. I just got a letter from the Ljubljana District Court a few days ago saying that they are, so they decided to erase my probation. My probation, i.e. I was convicted, and I make it clear and loudly because I violated the second and first paragraphs of Article 171 of the Penal Code as chairman of the commission of inquiry on the suspicion of abuse or damage to social property when someone was just saying something that was not true before the commission of inquiry. And in this white Ljubljana, I used to say, "Lie," which I hear is, "Don't tell the truth." In short, it's stupid to "fall down." But judgment is judgment, I've been sentenced to cash, parole, and I don't know what. But if in this state of law, which sends such a decision five years after your probation has ceased when your probation has passed, you really wonder what kind of justice we have. Therefore, Minister, if you have the option, do some more extraordinary control over the work of the untouchable judges, who also judge that all legal professions and half of universal Slovenia are held to the head. By not putting all the judges into this, God forbid. Some individuals usually do big shit, and then, unfortunately, they fly all over the system. It's the same in the National Assembly. And that's not right and I don't agree with it and I'm not generalizing it. Perhaps that is why I would suggest that we hold a debate in the National Assembly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-04-19-SDZ5-Redna-16.ana.u349	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Puksic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Justice to his question of the matter, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 20 April 2010, in the framework of the vote. I hereby end this agenda item, which we will continue tomorrow, on 20 April, when the National Assembly will decide on the proposed decisions in the framework of the votes. I am also adjourning the 16th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 10 a.m. tomorrow. Good night!
