ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 14th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, Melita Župevc, Alenka Jeraj since 16:00, Guido Kres, Milenko Ziherl, Marijan Pojbič since 15:00. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE LEGISLATION LAW WITH GENOLOGY AMENDED ORGANISES, IN THE RELEVANT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Mr. Krizman, Mr. Bevk, I ask you not to interfere with the prognosis of the law. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Roko Žarnic, Minister for Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u2	Dear Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Law on the Treatment of Genetically Modified Organisms. Amendments and additions to the law are necessary in order to fully implement Directive 2009 41 EC, which regulates work with genetically modified micro-organisms in closed systems and Directive 2001 18 EC on the release into the environment of genetically modified organisms and their placing on the market of two types of activities, namely the deliberate release of GMOs into the environment, for the purpose of instrumental testing and placing GMOs on the market, and Regulation 1830 2003 EC, which regulates labelling and traceability requirements for GMOs to be sufficient for the labelling and traceability of the entire market chain, in that part relating to the labelling of products authorised under this Act. The content changes and additions cover four areas. Amendments relating to improving administrative procedures and reducing administrative barriers thus complementing compliance with Directives and Regulation. In addition, changes relating to the extension of the composition and areas of work of the Scientific Committees to work in closed systems and to release GMOs into the environment. Complementing the GMO registry with information on GMO cultivation or breeding is essential in order to monitor the implementation of the monitoring of GMO action on the market. Fourthly, ensuring effective inspection or customs control in the field of GMO management. With a new arrangement, environmental inspectors shall monitor the implementation of the provisions relating to closed systems and the deliberate release of GMOs into the environment and the placing on the market. As follows, this change is in the direction of better control, greater control and order in this area. The amendments discussed and adopted by the Committee on Environment and Space at its meeting further contribute to improving the clarity of the proposed amendments and to supplementing the law. Some amendments here actually define these matters even better. Since time is running out, I'd rather read about these amendments, if you like, or maybe later. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u3	That won't be necessary. The amendments were accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you very much. There's something else we can say about the details. My fellow experts are here with me.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u5	Mr Minister, it will not be possible because the amendments are not available and the discussion will end after the position has been presented. So, the amendments are on. Mr. Secretary will get used to the rules of procedure, no problem. That's to be understood. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. I give my word to President Brady Pecan for presenting the Committee's reports. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u6	Good day and thank you for saying so, Mr President. Hello, Mr. Minister with colleagues, and good afternoon to all colleagues and colleagues in the hall! At its 14th meeting on 17 February this year, the Committee on the Environment and Space discussed it. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Treatment of Genetically Modified Organisms, which was sent by the Government to the ordinary procedure of the National Assembly. Representatives of the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the State Council and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly participated. The proposed bill does not change the basic principles of the current law. It only implements Directive 2009/41 EC on the use of genetically modified micro-organisms in closed systems and Directive 2001/18 EC on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms and regulates the implementation of Regulation 1830/2003 EC on the work relating to the labelling of products authorised under this Act. The draft law also introduces the concept of an extraordinary event in order to separate such cases from accidents. Separation is necessary because of the urgent distinction between situations in which the cause can cause sufficient action on its own and situations in which action requires the necessary competence. The draft law also amends the provisions of control with a view to ensuring effective inspection and customs control and their action. On the basis of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service, the Members' Groups of Social Democrats, Reals and the LDS Chamber of Members have tabled 13 amendments, and I will not list the articles because it takes too long to do so. The Committee adopted all the amendments of the parliamentary groups, while also adopting its amendments to Article 41 and the amendment to Article 43, thereby amending the 15 articles and also voting on all the non-amended articles together. Thus, after discussion on the individual articles of the draft law and after discussion and vote on the amendments in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on and adopted all the articles of the draft law together. On this basis, the text of the amended Bill in amendments to the Law on the Treatment of Genetically Modified Organisms, which includes the amendments adopted, was prepared. Today, after a very short procedure on this law, we will vote, and I hope that we will also adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Cvetka Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. A respected minister with colleagues, respectable colleagues and colleagues! We will support changes and additions to the Law on the Treatment of Genetically Modified Organisms in the Member Group Indeed, as we believe they bring positive changes in the regulation of genetically modified organisms. Above all, we are pleased that matters are being dealt with more acutely, especially in the field of inspection and customs control and their actions, and we believe that this is a good thing. We also welcome the concept and definition of the concept of an extraordinary event. We are particularly pleased to see the implementation of what we have been committed to in the Group of Members, which is to change the composition of the two scientific committees covering this area, namely the Scientific Committee for the release of genetically modified organisms into the environment and the placing of products on the market and the Scientific Committee for the work with GMOs in a closed space. As you know, in Zares, we advocate that Slovenia establish a security reserve and, above all, that Europe will be able to be strong enough and courageous enough to resist the penetration of genetically modified plants into the European market, in one way or another, because there are major pressures here, especially in the United States and some large corporations that are looking exclusively at earnings, while we all know that at this point we cannot claim that everything related to genetically modified plants, the enjoyment of this and so on, is only positive. Practice has shown that the two scientific committees that have worked so far have not had sufficient scientific areas within the represented areas. We are therefore pleased that this is spreading and that experts on ecology, toxicology, plant protection and animal nutrition will also be present on the committees. This will make the committees more balanced, and we hope that the proper representation of non-governmental organisations of organic farmers and not just advocates of genetically modified organisms will also be present, as we have seen before. The scientific committees were formerly promoters of genetically modified plants, not institutions, where they would also establish a precautionary and critical attitude towards genetically modified plants. Allow me to take this opportunity also to express my surprise and disappointment at the decision of the European Commission, the Barroso European Commission, which approved the new genetically modified plant, the so-called "amflora" potatoes the previous day. I think this is an extremely important negative action by the European Commission, because for the first time since 1998, Europe has reopened its doors to a new plant. You know, so far, one of the types of maize is allowed, and now it's also allowed to have a potato that has a gene that gives resistance to antibiotics. We are very dissatisfied with this, especially that this has to be carried out in an unusual way, because this was not a procedure where any serious debate would develop, and the President of the European Commission has brought it down by written approval procedure, without discussion, which seems to us to be bad. We would like Slovenia to present a negative position in advance in the European Commission, a position based on a precautionary principle regarding the introduction of genetically modified plants, in order for Slovenia to be included among those countries that oppose the introduction of genetically modified plants, and in particular to succeed those European countries that want autonomy and autonomy in deciding what genetically modified plants should be introduced in order to be independent here, so that they can decide independently without being dictated by the European Commission. The number of these countries is increasing from day to day, and I hope that Slovenia will represent the position here, which is also the position of Slovenian citizens and citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with co-worker and co-worker, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Treatment of Genetically Modified Organisms, in particular the implementation of the directive on the use of genetically modified micro-organisms in closed systems, the full implementation of the Directive on the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment and the implementation of the Regulation on the traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms and the traceability of food and feed produced from genetically modified organisms. In view of the fact that the practice has shown that scientific committees need knowledge of the wider scientific fields in risk assessment, we support the extension of expertise in the fields of toxicology, ecology, allergology, food, plant protection and animal nutrition in the competent committees. We also support the introduction of the concept of 'extraordinary event', which, unlike the term 'accident', means that the cause itself can cause sufficient action. Although the Republic of Slovenia has not established a safety reservation to genetically modified maize, which is the only genetically modified culture whose commercial use is allowed in the EU, the fact that the conditions provided by the producer of genetically modified plants are very strict and that production is limited. In the SLS Group, we agree in this regard with the changes which now clearly, accurately and unequivocally define the powers and authorities of inspection and customs control and their actions. We will also support the bill because it foresees the creation of a new register on the location of cultivation and the breeding of genetically modified organisms, which we find very meaningful in the SLS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the minister and co-worker and co-workers. Colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law to ensure a more effective implementation of the law. The amendments and additions relate mainly to the regulation and clear limitation of control powers, the extension of the Scientific Committee on Closed Systems and the Scientific Committee on the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment and the placing of products on the market, and the obligation to keep the logbook on intentional release of genetically modified organisms into the environment. The proposal for a law on greater efficiency also comprehensively regulates cases of extraordinary events and accidents of setting up, linking to environmental responsibility, which is also one of the main reasons why we support this bill in the DeSUS Group. Some of the changes represent the removal of administrative barriers, as a possibility of complementarity and acceptance of the application has been introduced. In addition, the amendment introduces the charging of the actual costs of legal proceedings relating to this law, namely for cases of the issue of a certificate or permit, as well as for the extension of the licence. The proposal for a law in the Slovenian legal order fully implements Directive 2001/17 of the European Community and Directive 2009/41 of the European Community and improves certain legal solutions in force. The draft law was fully coordinated with all stakeholders within the framework of the Interdepartmental Working Group, which was composed of representatives of the ministries, professional institutions, NGOs. With regard to the proposed solutions on inspection and customs control in the area of the handling of genetically modified organisms in the DeSUS Group, it is expected that a clearer definition of the powers and authorities of inspection and customs control and strengthening the environmental responsibility of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia will have an impact on more effective control of the handling of genetically modified organisms and the prevention or reduction of potential harmful environmental effects. In our Group, we want to approach the strategy on safe healthy nutrition in the Republic of Slovenia as soon as possible and to highlight the issue of the presence of genetically modified organisms in the diet in view of all possible harmful effects on human health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. We will support this bill in the Slovenian National Party. Not because he'd be so good, but because he's actually the first step in the direction of getting these things settled. It must be realized that genetically modified organisms are not as harmless as anyone would say. Above all, it is the fantastic profits of certain companies, global multinationals, who make huge profits from it. Monsanto has the password "We Create Life". Yeah, it's okay to create life, just to create a life that won't destroy another life, one that was created by nature. Today, companies can interfere so much with the genetic structure of organisms, both plant and animal, to the extent that everything can actually change. This permission of the European Union to allow genetically modified potatoes is not so simple. There will be no more potatoes, Monsanto and any other seed that can be sold each year. This is a major intervention in nature. But I think we're going to have to deal with this a little bit more. Like pharmaceutical companies that have created this so-called swine flu, where it has proved to be only a billion-dollar profit for certain companies, it continues in companies that produce genetically modified organisms. Just as pharmaceutical companies stigmatize certain non-injurious preparations to sell more of their products, this will also happen in the field of genetically modified organisms. Consider the example of the Baldrian droplets used by our old mothers to appease them, which is a common flower that grows here also in Bar, Veleriana Officinalis or a common Baldrian, but is strictly prohibited in preparations and should be used as a very toxic ingredient. On the other hand, the Viagra has already defeated a large number of the few older citizens, this or one of the countries, and everything is fine. It should be known that the profits are those who work in these matters. The European Union is not immune to bribery, fraud and, in fact, the European Union is a trading organisation that is increasingly demonstrating its purpose and its way of action. This mode of action is, give me some money in your pocket, as much as possible, and I'll be quiet, and I'll agree to anything, because others will eat it or use it. I am sorry that Slovenia did not take into account and did not use a security reservation, because in this security reserve Slovenia could do a lot of things. I think I could also give Europe a hint of what else to do and where to pay particular attention. Unfortunately, the Slovenian government does not turn to scientific institutions in Slovenia, where it could learn a lot more. After all, the Faculty of Pharmacy in Ljubljana has several patents, global patents also in the field of genetic engineering and genetically modified organisms, but I don't know if Mr. Minister knows this or if his employees at the Ministry know it. Looks like it's not exactly. Otherwise, the security reservation would be used and written down by the European Union in subsequent acts. But as I've already said, given that it's better than nothing, we're going to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Miran Jerič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u16	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister of the Environment and Space with Fellow Members, Honourable Members, Fellow Members! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the treatment of genetically modified organisms. In our opinion, the proposed amendments to the law do not prejudice the basic principles of the applicable law on the treatment of genetically modified organisms, but only implement two European directives and one regulation in this area. It is the implementation of the Directive on the use of genetically modified micro-organisms in closed systems and the Directive on the deliberate release into the environment of genetically modified organisms and the Regulation relating to the labelling of products authorised in accordance with this Act. Some improvements have also been introduced on the basis of the findings made so far on the basis of the implementation of the law. It is worth mentioning that, for example, the term "extraordinary event" is introduced in order to distinguish such cases from "accidents". Separation is necessary because of the urgent distinction between situations in which the cause can cause sufficient action on its own and does not result from human health and the environment, and between situations in which action requires special, not only competence, but also the equipment of rescue units. In addition, accidents are now uniformly regulated in accordance with environmental protection rules, including the link with responsibility for preventing or repairing damage to the area of treatment of genetically modified organisms. More effectively, inspection and customs control shall also be provided for in respect of the implementation of the provisions of this Act and on the basis of its provisions. In our view, too, we welcome the amendment to increase the number of members in both scientific committees, from the current 7 to the 9 members, so that as many experts as possible from different scientific fields are introduced into the work of these committees. As already said in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Silva Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well, hello to the Minister with his coworkers. We will support the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Law on the Treatment of Genetically Modified Organisms in the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democrats, as it represents compliance with European legislation and in this field with the directive on the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment and the directive on the use of genetically modified organisms in closed systems and also with the regulation on traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms and the traceability of food and feed produced from genetically modified organisms. At the same time, it also provides practical solutions for greater safety in the management of genetically modified organisms, except those subject to regulation under other regulations, which are not limited. Studies and additions would probably be necessary, but they are exceptions, and they are not the subject of this other novelty of the law. In particular, the Group of Social Democrats welcomes the important changes regarding the number of members and the structure of the Scientific Committee and the Scientific Committee for the deliberate release of GMOs and the placing on the market. This enlargement is particularly important in the control of the release of genetically modified organisms into the environment, as there are increasing suspicions and harmful consequences of the use of genetically modified organisms in the developed world, as it can be determined by the knowledge of toxicology, algebraology and the assessment of their effects on the environment, plants, animals and indirectly on human health. This is particularly important because we know that in Slovenia and even around the world we have many allergies and mutant forms of allergies that actually have a very disruptive effect on the lives of individuals. On this occasion in the Group of Social Democrats, we also expect that the strategy on safe food and healthy life will be adopted as soon as possible and that in fact it will also introduce some new developments in this area. For the purposes of achieving better transparency and greater information, it seems to us that its register of genetically modified organisms is supplemented by a record of the location of cultivation and the formation of genetically modified organisms, and the breeder is obliged to report on the location of GMO cultivation, the period during which GMOs will be grown, the manner of cultivation and even the graphic unit of agricultural land use, which is part of the location. All this information is necessary to control the implementation of the monitoring and release of GMOs on the market, as in the Group of Social Democrats we have found that some genetically modified seeds have been disrupted in America and therefore various judicial consequences and persecutions. Greater information is also needed in separating disasters with genetically modified organisms from unforeseen events of minor scope and minor importance that can be managed by the genetically modified organism grower himself, which have no implications for human health and the environment, in order to record in the operating log as an extraordinary event that does not need to be disturbed by the general public. Here I particularly stress that not disturbing the public is not meant to hide information from the public, but it does mean something similar. In our country, it is very important to ensure effective inspection in all areas, and also in this area. Therefore, the changes in the chapter relating to this are undoubtedly very important and welcome. The draft law now clearly defines the powers of the supervisory authorities and their actions, because in the Group of Social Democrats we find that this has been quite flawed in all areas, as well as in this. This present law is an extremely expert law and we hope and expect it to have proper and effective implementation, as its implementation is extremely difficult. However, we are committed to meeting all health standards and will therefore be a proposal [[..]] [[a sign for the end of the debate.]] accepted. [[..]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Robert Hrovat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Treatment of Genetically Modified Organisms, as set out in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the European Council, is certainly an important matter, which has been widely discussed in both the professional and the lay public in recent times. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome the solution to increase the number of members of the Scientific Committee for the work with genetically modified organisms in the closed system and the Scientific Committee for the deliberate release of GMOs into the environment and the placing of products on the market, so that in both cases professional areas are expanded. This increases the number of members from the current 7 to 9 by introducing experts in the field of toxicology and ecology. In the case of an open system, the number of members shall be increased from the current 7 to 13 and experts in the field of toxicology, allerology, food, plant protection, animal nutrition and ecology shall be introduced. As well as the introduction of the concept of an "emergency event" in order to separate such cases from accidents, we are also appreciating. Separation is necessary because of the urgent distinction between situations where there are no consequences for human health and the environment and can cause sufficient action on its own, from accidents where action requires special competence. Accidents are now uniformly regulated in accordance with environmental protection rules, including the link with responsibility for preventing or repairing damage to the area of treatment of genetically modified organisms. Particular attention shall also be paid to the amendments and additions to Chapter 7, which further defines the provision of appropriate inspection or customs control in the field of handling of genetically modified organisms. The proposed provisions now clearly, precisely and unequivocally define the powers and authorities of inspection and customs control as well as measures. As well as assessing the obligation to manage the operating log in order to release genetically modified organisms into the environment. As the bill does not change the basic design of the existing law in the legal system, but brings some changes and additions to solutions or a good upgrade of the existing law, we will support in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Treatment of Genetically Modified Organisms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended bill will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the conclusion of the 25th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Safety in Rail Transport, regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr Igor Jakomin, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The main objective of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rail Safety is to implement the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Directives to be implemented by this Act are: the Directive on the issue of certificates to drivers operating locomotives and trains on the Community rail network, the Directive amending the Directive on safety on Community railways, the Directive on the interoperability of the Community rail system and the Directive amending Annex 7 to the Interoperability Directive. In preparing the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Railway Safety Act, the principle was followed that, in order to implement those Directives, the law should only be amended accordingly and amended in accordance with the requirements laid down in the Directives. On this basis, the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia is subject to changes and additions in the field of rail interoperability and security. As some of the uncertainties and inconsistencies of the current law have also been demonstrated in the implementation of the directives, the proposal for amendments also includes additions to address such gaps, particularly those which were urgently needed in terms of transport safety. In the area of interoperability, changes and additions are mainly due to the fact that Directives that have previously independently addressed the interoperability of conventional and high-speed lines have been combined into one. In doing so, it should be pointed out that in addition to the amendments necessary for the merger, provisions relating to operating licences for railway vehicles previously included in the Safety Directive have been added to this Directive. With the implementation of the Safety Directive and the Directive on the certification of drivers in the field of railway safety, the following provisions shall be incorporated into Slovenian legislation: definitions from the scope of the model of driver certificates, territorial validity and minimum requirements for obtaining licences and certificates. In addition, a procedure for obtaining a licence and a certificate shall be put in place as a document showing the practical competence of the worker, regularly verified and medical conditions and the employer’s tasks to establish and maintain a register of certificates. Provisions on vehicle maintenance are being put in place and professional qualifications, health and other conditions have been newly defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Janko Webr for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. The Transport Committee considered the law at its 8th session as a parent labour force. 2. In 2010, and in this consideration, the opening presentation was mag. Ljubo Žerak, who presented, on behalf of the applicant, the reasons for amending and supplementing the proposal for a law relating mainly to the timely implementation of the Directives, thereby aligning with the legal order of the European Community in two key areas: the introduction of interoperability and security. The main interoperability solutions and principles, he stressed, relate to the definition of the rail system and its subsystems, which are divided into structural and operational subsystems and are incorporated into the law by complying with the provisions laid down in the Directive with the trans-European rail system, which is defined in accordance with the Directive on the scope of the conventional and high-speed lines. In addition, railway vehicles intended for international traffic subject to the conditions of interoperability are included in this system and the obligation to progressively extend the conditions for ensuring interoperability to regional lines. The Law was also given its opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which notes that the proposed legislative text proposes amendments to the extent that several new articles of the Law on Rail Safety are introduced, so they even considered that they should actually draw up the whole text of the law, not amendments and additions. The procedure continued in such a way as to include the comments and views of the Legislative and Legal Service in the text already presented. To this end, the coalition's parliamentary groups have also drafted amendments that have been tabled for the proposed amendments on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party has also tabled amendments to the law, namely Articles 4, 14, 29 and 69. The Committee has adopted all the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups, but has not adopted the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. The members of the committee also considered that it was not possible to regulate the time limits prescribed by another law on this proposal. However, the Railway Agency of the Republic of Slovenia shall take into account the statutory deadlines for the issue of a usable permit in the procedures it conducts. Following the discussion, a proposal was also made to verify the provision of Article 14 of the Law relating to the new Article 16b and to prepare, where appropriate, an amendment for second reading until the meeting of the National Assembly. After the discussion on the articles of the bill and the vote on the amendments tabled, the Transport Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the amended Law amending and supplementing the Law on Railway Safety, which includes the amendments already adopted, has been prepared. The amended bill is also an integral part of the report that we have today at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Jakob Presečnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! Although the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the amendments and additions to the Railway Safety Act, which brings to our legal order the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council in two important and essential areas, this is in the area of the introduction of interoperability and security. However, we agree with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that due to such extensive changes - more than a third of the articles of the law change - the Government should prepare a new law. We support the changes mainly because we support the proposed solution in Article 32 of the amendment to the law, which reduces the width of the protection band to 100 metres, in which certain interventions require the consent of the public railway infrastructure manager, since the current 200-metre lane is non-life, especially in urban environments. We also make a positive assessment of the solution in Article 35 of the amendment to the law, by which, instead of the road manager, the public railway infrastructure manager will take care of the protection and management of the rail and road crossings in this case. We believe it is right that the public railway infrastructure manager is responsible for security and that the municipalities are burdened with this burden, responsibility and cost. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support those amendments tabled that are necessary and improve the text of the bill and the text of the bill as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we support the draft law before us and whose main objective is the implementation of the European directives in this area into the Slovenian legal order. The legal novelty affects three areas: interoperability, security and other changes. The main interoperability solutions and principles are based on the fact that the Directives, which have previously independently addressed the interoperability of conventional and high-speed lines, have been combined into one. In addition, provisions relating to operating licences for vehicles have been added to the new Directive. The main safety solutions have been identified from the scope of the model driver’s certificates, territorial validity and minimum requirements for obtaining a licence and certificate. Professional qualifications, health and other conditions are also newly defined. During the changes, we can also point out the safety belt, which, instead of the 200 meters so far, represents a 100 meters wide land strip, which runs from the border of the lane on both sides of the track. Progress in technology and rapid urbanisation has in practice shown that 100 metres of protection band is sufficient to ensure railway safety. An important amendment to the draft law is also a temporary ban on doing work on the spot, which, compared to the text in force, regulates more comprehensively and uniformly the cases in which a worker is temporarily prevented from doing work and is supplemented in cases previously arising from other provisions of the law. As we say, in the DeSUS Group, we support the proposal for a law before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Srečko Friend. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Director of the Directorate. Good-bye. The Government proposes to the National Assembly to amend the law on railway safety. We support this change in the Slovenian National Party, although it is quite extensive following the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Service. It is a matter of changing several articles of this law and, as has already been said, it would be more prudent to change the law altogether. The implementation of the Directives has also shown some uncertainties and inconsistencies in the existing applicable law, which is why it is imperative today that we adopt this law in essence. The legal changes thus eliminate these gaps and in some ways also lay down procedures for regulating transport safety and lay down procedures in the field of interoperability. These are urgent procedures if, of course, we want to be European comparable and European equal. This is also the European directive, which is mentioned twice here. In some ways, we must also make sure that we can become providers of Euro-transit routes. Provisions in the field of vehicle maintenance also need to be rewinded and it would be appropriate to assign to the person who is also a maintenance operator the entity that we know in some way through the history of the wagon, who cares about what. And this is also regulated by this law on rail safety. Everything's fine and fine. This marriage is kind of necessary, but if you'll excuse me, I'd say something about what we could do, and we didn't. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is working to arrange for a systematic overhaul in the field of rail transport and to start in some way with investments that are necessary. This effort is seen both by the Minister and by the President of the Government, and we can say that finally there is someone in the Government who has seen the need to systematically rebuild the rail infrastructure system. We have been in possession of a guarantee law at the state level for more than two years. This law allows investment in the railway infrastructure system, but nothing has happened until today. I am very sad when we talk about safety, but at the same time we still have visual signals in use. I am very sad when I find that we have new locomotives, but they cannot drive from the Wall Bridge to Maribor, because the lower structure of the track is not strong enough to allow you to drive these locomotives. For we do not have a line in D4 mode and the strength of the line does not last 22.5 tonnes of axle pressure. These are things we can put an end to right away. And no one can convince me that we cannot update existing security systems in such a way as to eliminate the ten-year experimental operation of some of the prisoners we trusted in the development and installation of Siemens. Siemens is a company that left the Slovenian Railways as soon as the contract was made which bound them to cooperate with us after the delivery of passenger suits and closed the factory in Maribor. The spark used to produce much better security systems, and somehow we shut them down. And these are the things that bother me. I hope that Mr Patrick Vlačič will also see the comparative advantages of our economy and include in this reform of the railway infrastructure system our own knowledge as well. Of course, this should not be ignored. We have experience and use this experience with adjectives in other countries. Our companies can equip there with the security systems of the foreign rail line and are not wanted at home. Of course, that's not good. And one last thing, I would like to point out that what we can do today, let's not delay tomorrow, because the cargo is carrying us, and I'm afraid we're going to have an afternoon track that will be capable, but we won't have the cargo, because we're going to become a simple transit island in the middle of Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Miran Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u32	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State, Director of the Directorate, Honourable Member, fellow Members! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rail Safety. The matter of the Railway Safety Act regulates an extremely important area of security in the Slovenian rail system and its interoperability. However, the amendment under consideration builds on the existing law by implementing the legislative text of the four directives of the European Union into the Slovenian legal order. For the area of interoperability, it must be said that the main solutions of the novel are conditioned by the fact that the Directives which have previously dealt independently with the interoperability of conventional and high-speed lines have been combined into one. In addition, provisions relating to operating licences for vehicles have been added to the new Directive. In the field of safety, which implements the two Directives of the European Union, the following solutions should be highlighted in particular: the definitions in the scope of the model driver’s certificates, territorial validity and minimum requirements for obtaining a licence and certificate are newly defined professional qualifications, as well as health and other conditions. In these two main areas of the novel, it is also important to narrow the protection belt of the 200 to 100 metres wide land belt. Change is life, welcome and necessary. With the content in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we cannot pass the fact that we are again late for implementation. This time we are delaying the implementation of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on certification for drivers operating locomotives and trains on the Community rail network. The remaining three directives will be implemented in due time by adopting this law, which is commendable and encouraging. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are aware that this is a difficult technical legal text and therefore we believe that it must, as such, be the subject of a competent professional public. As far as we are aware of LDS, the professional public and Slovenian railways as operators participated in the drafting of the Law. In doing so, we agree with the position of the representative of the Slovenian Railways at the meeting of the parent committee that the amendment of the law is only a first step. The second step will be the adoption of appropriate sub-legislative rules. Thirdly, in our view, the most important step is to put them into practice. Ensuring the safety of a system such as rail is a complex, complex and permanent task, where the legal framework for ensuring safety must be clear and logical and where each part of the system must comply absolutely with the rules and operate without error. Otherwise, the likelihood of extraordinary events and accidents is greatly increased. The last railway accident in Belgium is unfortunately more than an instructive example for all who regulate, manage and make up the Slovenian rail system, especially for Slovenian railways. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law on railway safety.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u34	President, thank you very much. Dear Secretary, Director of the Directorate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that modern rail infrastructure is one of the basis for the country's competitiveness and economic efficiency, as we know it reduces transaction costs. By thoroughly reorganising and rehabilitating the Slovenian Railways, which is currently under way, I think that Slovenia is becoming an important factor on the European transport map. I am also personally pleased that the Government is aware that the President of the Government is aware of this and also the Minister of Transport. Only the amendment of the Railway Safety Act introduces European directives into Slovenia's legal order and thus aligns Slovenia's legal order with the acquis of the European Community in two essential areas, as colleagues have already said before me, these are in the area of interoperability and security. At the same time, in the Group of Social Democrats, we hope that this novel will also help to fill the mosaic in the rehabilitation and modernisation of Slovenian railways. Of course, the directives themselves and the laws themselves will not help if only a single set of money does not come. In particular, in the area of security, the draft law introduces provisions on the scope of the model driver certificates, territorial validity and minimum requirements for obtaining a licence and certificate, and new professional qualifications, health and other conditions have been identified. The law is only the first step in operationalising rail transport, so in the Group of Social Democrats we hope that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will prepare as soon as possible any sub-legislative regulations that will also be legal provisions for operationalisation. Here I see in particular two sub-legislative regulations that regulate the area of so-called maintenance works for public benefit and a building permit. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will, of course, support the proposal for a law on railway safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr. Peter Verlic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u36	Honourable President, Honourable Representative of the Government, Honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Railway Safety Act proposed by the Government is due to the transfer of the European acquis into the Slovenian rail system. This is a very difficult technical text, although the purpose of the law is quite simple. The law seeks to simplify technical standards and means of obtaining documentation for rail infrastructure and any necessary authorisations for all Member States of the European Union under the same conditions. The aim of the law is therefore to achieve connectivity, either with the external interoperability of the Slovenian rail system, with the rail systems of the other Member States into a single rail system of the European Union. In other words, trains will be able to drive without stopping all over Europe. Thus, the freight train of Slovenian Railways with one locomotive without stopping will be able to drive from Kopra to Hamburg, and the fast French train TGV will be able, for example, to have the final station instead of Lyon just in Ljubljana. Is it a dream or a real dream? Let's hope it's real. In the previous mandate, the Government of Janez Janša adopted a resolution on national development projects, in which it recorded as an important priority the modernisation of Slovenian railway infrastructure of EUR 8.8 billion by 2023. Then the current transport minister found that the previous government was exaggerating and that less money was needed. Apparently, now the Prime Minister of the Borut Pahor has finally found it necessary to invest EUR 9 billion, which he said publicly here in the National Assembly yesterday when he presented the Declaration on the Functioning of Slovenia in the European Institutions for the following year and a half. I hope the Transport Minister Dr. Wlačič heard him. Above all, the distinguished President of the Government and the Minister of Transport, if they now listen to the National Assembly, I hope that they will at least be able to acknowledge that the assessment of investment investments in the modernisation of the railway infrastructure made by the previous Government was correct; in the end, the assessments were prepared by the same experts. Well, obviously we only managed to convince you once, so we suggest you listen to us again. The adoption of the law will therefore allow for the emergence of a competitive single railway market. We also hope that this unification will result in greater competitiveness on the international market for the supply of rail services, products and equipment, which will ultimately reduce the value of public contracts even when it comes to the construction of new routes in Slovenia. We hope that, and especially to the detriment of some lobbyists, there will be no repetition of the highway story. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the law will only be applicable to new railway lines in Slovenia, which are currently in planning. We therefore believe that it would be better for the Government to prepare a new law on the interoperability of the Slovenian rail system instead of this law. This fact has also been pointed out indirectly by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which notes that, with these amendments, more than one third of the articles of the basic law have been amended, which would require the preparation of a new law from a nominal point of view. We are concerned that this has reduced the transparency of the law, as the new rules of European interoperability are interfering with existing national rules on existing lines, which could lead to excessive administration and delaying licensing procedures, which has already happened in the past. Let's just remember the unfortunate prisoners in Prekmurje when their agreement to build them took years, even though all the equipment was on the ground. The Group also tabled an amendment to Articles 4 and 14 of the Act, which aims to improve at least a little bit the proposed text. Although we will not oppose the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, it is mainly a matter of transferring the European acquis into Slovenian law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 3.3.2010. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the two amendments of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? I will make a proposal to apply for the debate. Mr. Marinic, then Dr. Verlich and Lucky Friend. Please, Mr. Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. Have a nice hello to you all. Before speaking specifically about the contents of the amendment that we have proposed, let me somehow express the feeling that we are doing too much with the railway, somewhere inside, in closed spaces: either in Kolodvorski 11, or in Šubičeva 4, or in the seat where the transport ministry is located and so on. We are not looking too closely at what is happening on the tracks of Slovenian railways, on railway stations, on industrial routes and so on, as is also the talk in the proposals of some amendments. In Article 4, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we tried to help the proposer a little bit, since Article 4 is intended primarily to explain certain specific concepts used in the railway sector and therefore further explanation is needed. And it is in Article 4 that we find 44 such concepts, which the law defines and defines in more detail, that explain what they mean. For the first item, we wanted to add the concept of European legislation or directives introduced as a novelty in the draft law. What did we want? We wanted to add essential requirements and further explain what it means. With this, we wanted the proposer to take our proposal into account in further substantive discussions, which unfortunately did not even happen on the committee, although we also said there that we do not oppose the content of the bill itself, which, as it is said, seeks to summarize and withdraw all the directives required by European legislation when it deals with the whole railway topic in the EU community. We are convinced that this definition will also help us to understand those who will deal with this difficult subject in the future. Once again, I stress that terminology is really specific, because it is extremely professional and it is difficult to understand what needs to be taken into account when we talk about it, especially those who may be a little more familiar with railways or the specific terminology that is present as an expert language among railway workers. We therefore propose that you support this amendment to Article 4 under Article 2 - the essential requirements that we define below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Dr. Peter Verlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u40	Thank you very much. I just want to complement my fellow Member. We do not understand, namely, the very basic text of the law introduces these new definitions in the directive. It is only that the text contained in the Directives, what are the essential requirements, what is interoperability - last but not least that the Directive on rail interoperability is transposed and the definition of interoperability is not contained in the law. An important interoperability component is the technical specification for interoperability. In short, we do not see any reason for the text, the definitions, which are likely to have fallen out of the text of the law and are in the directive, to be transposed into law. In fact, the basic framework for these amendments to the Railway Safety Act is the transfer of interoperability, technical specifications for interoperability and essential requirements to this Act. Therefore, it is right that this is enshrined in the law because it is a key definition that is likely to have fallen out by mistake. Well, as for the second amendment, the project at a later stage of development. We think this translation is a little strange. It is simple, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, for projects that started earlier than the technical specification with interoperability which was later established. This would mean that all procedures or projects that have been run in another order should be amended, but this is too much of a cost to the State. Therefore, it seems to us that it would be more appropriate and better described if it was written "project in the follow-up phase of development", which means that the project has already made some progress. I think these two amendments deserve support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u41	Happy Friend has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There were quite a few debaters who mentioned the word "interoperability" today. And I believe that few people know what that really means. While the proposed amendment is well-intentioned, it in some ways clarifies certain concepts which are more or less mentioned in the amendments to the law. However, if we are talking about this law, which is intended to regulate railway safety, it is essential to stress the following. Security is now left to both domestic and foreign operators to their own discretion, and everyone can determine what criteria for cargo insurance will be taken away and - not controlled by these foreign operators, which is very bad for me. I have also talked about this with Dr. Jakomin, as well as with the director of the Directorate, and we have also been on a visit. There's a great need for this to be resolved. For example, let RCA determine its own way of securing the cargo and transport in some poorly maintained wagons even 100% of a cargo, no one controls it today! Tomorrow, when an emergency occurs, of course, we will all have our mouths full of worry about why this happened. But that's what's going on. In the area of security, we must also be European comparable, and I welcome what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry has drawn up in this exit strategy, and I call on the Ministry to arrange this as soon as possible, as we have agreed on in the Transport Committee. The second thing I'd like to point out is that we're wasting battle in time; I hope we don't lose the war. If we look at the planned dynamics of work, say, Koper-Divic, we'll build a 0.45 km track in one month. This is how it is calculated, and this is supposed to cost, namely, 26 million euros per kilometer of track. If we compare this to the southern railway built by Franz Joseph, we can find that they made three kilometres of lines at the time, and if we compare the price of our 26 million euros per km of tracks with the Tibetan track, then the assessors prescribe the situation here - in Tibet we are 2.4 million this kilometer costs. Why such walks, why they can build 23 km of tracks there a month, and we know what the terrain is, but there will be a great difficulty for us, an intervention into the space as well. But I believe that there are huge reserves here and we need to be overwinded here, because, of course, we will have large resources from the state budget, we will also owe future generations, and it is also right to treat these funds responsibly. It does not look like a great deal of intensive work to start work, so one that could already - say from the Wall Bridge to Maribor, could immediately begin to renew the line for, in fact, the ability of 22.5 tonnes of basic pressure, because I see no reason not to. And that hasn't happened yet. The former government slept on it, too. And when we talk about losing opportunities and opportunities to get new loads, it is important to say that we have only one road and only one railway and that this flow is lower from day to day. Our commercial speed in freight is just over 30 km/h, while Europe drives 160 km/h. This needs to be made clear here. Slow driving, due to poor rail infrastructure, is more from day to day, because it is easier to issue an order that there must be a slow ride on some section because something happened in the movement, I don't know, tectonic movement and the track "blue" because the lower structure is weak, etc. And of course, it's dangerous to ride the railroads. Under such safety conditions as railways have, this is dangerous. That's what I'm talking about from here. And as soon as possible, we need to start updating this rail infrastructure system. If we are talking about the fact that we still have visual signals in force, you know, when Europe is already talking about automatic traffic management from station to station, it's pretty sad. And of course, such laws will help us no more than to make a prerequisite for the start of certain works that we have been putting off for many years. Even if we look at a national development project from the 1990s, we find that only a few percent are exploited or realised. That's where we wrote, sort of in the '90s, that priority is the second track. And what grieves me most, ladies and gentlemen, is that we have a development project, Koper - Divaca, classified as the first ten priority projects in Europe, and we have not started to implement it. Even Europe has asked us to return the money we have already received, EUR 4 million, because we have not provided the previous government with our own participation in the budget for the use of these funds. Let's wake up! I also suggested to the Supervisory Board that, with Mr Godec, we sit down to form a world of people who have the ability, the knowledge, the desire to start immediately. Don't put that off till tomorrow. And economic damage, and this is what I want to say, which is increasing from day to day in this area - of course this account will also not be paid to anyone. What will happen if we are not European comparable? We probably won't get a strategic partner, either. The government is working very hard to get it, but if these matters are not settled so that trains can be driven on our tracks in commercial terms, of course, the strategic partner will not come to Slovenia. Therefore, from this point of view, of course, outside the context of this amendment, I would like to be forgiven, Madam President, that, of course, I should immediately approach this. Let it be called a world that will speed up, for there is no reason for us not to begin. We have the money, the guarantee law, as said, has already been adopted in the previous term, to rent credits, we have some projects. The Ministry has also taken a reasonable step in that it has accelerated the construction of the second track due to the fact that the spatial acts for the so-called single track have already been adopted and that the plans exist and so on. We'll make some time here first. And I see no reason not to start with these parts immediately, but in particular to ensure normal safety conditions and normal operating conditions for driving trains in commercial composition. We don't have that now. Call on the government: I'd like us to approach this tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I would like to point out that, while there are substantial comments, assessments and proposals that have been made to focus on both amendments to Article 4, there will be an opportunity to discuss these other important aspects. Although, as I said, I do not deny the current and substantive gravity of the debate. So let's focus more on the amendments. Anybody else want to discuss this? Secretary of State, Mr. Jakomin.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I thank the amendment's proposals for this sincere assistance which they wanted us to give in improving the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Railway Safety Act, but I must say that the position of the applicant is to reject the amendments. The amendment's proposers consider that this professional terminology should also be included in the definition as: essential requirements, interoperability, interoperability constituents, technical specification for interoperability which the law also applies. [[...]] The inclusion of these terms between definitions would constitute duplication, as the essential requirements are defined in Article 10 of the Law Amendment or in Article 12 of the Amending Act. Furthermore, interoperability is defined in Article 6 in the first paragraph of the amended law. Interoperability components are defined in Article 10 and the technical specification is defined in Article 7 of the Amending Act. About the word "later." The application translated into the Interoperability Directive is also used as such in the amendment of the law. We also believe that the word 'continuation' cannot be understood as a phrase of a project that makes no sense in the use of new technologies and specifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss both amendments to Article 4? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. I therefore conclude the debate on this Article and the two amendments. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors. Anybody want to talk about it? Dr. Peter Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you. The substance of the proposed amendment is that, in all decisions taken by the security authority and concluded with a permit, it is, however, necessary to record in the law a certain period within which it is to be determined. And that's, I think, a reasonable suggestion. On the Committee on Transport, representatives of the Railway Agency said that they would issue all licences within a significantly shorter period of 14 days. However, if we do have a legal guardian who is now, with our proposal, even a one-month extension, in fact, we all have a timeline ahead of us by which time licences must be issued. I don't think there's any problem here. We would like to avoid taking any proceedings for too long and making reference to each other’s various organs, which has already happened in the past. In the end, he suffers from a technical solution. For example, it may happen that a security system or a construction section, a section of the line, a safety device, a prisoner, anything at all, even if it is a new technical solution, that these procedures will take too long. And the proposal is the right one. We do not see any problem so that it would not be possible to do so within a reasonable period of time, which is, according to our estimate, 30 days, one month. This, of course, is also suggested that, for these cases, as defined in this Article, there will also be written down and then there will be no arbitration between the authorities. They'll have a legal standard by the time a permit is issued. Otherwise, of course, we can come to the conclusion that the procedures will be carried out at the expense of the deadlines, because they are not prescribed, and that they will eventually go to the detriment, not least, of railway safety. However, even if the representatives of the Railway Agency claim that they are capable of doing so within 14 days, then I see no reason not to write this 30-day deadline into the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this amendment with article 14? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today, in the framework of the vote, at least half an hour after the end of the 25th agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY - This is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Receipts of Business Persons in Economic Companies in the Flemish Republic of Slovenia and Self-Governmental Local Communities under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. The word has magic. Darja Radic, State Secretary, Ministry of the Economy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u48	The Honorable President. Dear Members! The proposal for a law on the remuneration of managers in companies owned by the Republic of Slovenia and the local self-government communities governs the remuneration of directors in companies where the majority ownership of the State of the Republic of Slovenia or the self-government local community. The law lays down the principles and limits to be taken into account by the members of the Supervisory Boards in determining the remuneration and rights of directors. In fact, the bill is an upgrade to the previous years of the adopted acts of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with which the Government wanted to regulate the remuneration of directors in companies where the majority is owned by a state or by a self-government local community. For the first time in 1998, then in 2002 and as you probably know, the last recommendations were adopted by the Government at the beginning of 2009. The fact is that the Government has so far adopted recommendations for this area in particular, which, as you know, are not mandatory. The practice so far has shown that these recommendations have not always been taken into account and the Government has decided to regulate this area by law. The bill also aims to regulate, from an administrative point of view, uniform rules for the award of directors, where the Republic of Slovenia or the local community as the majority owner. The main solution to the bill is that the members of the supervisory authorities will have to take the same rules into account when determining the remuneration and other rights, but of course it is still the responsibility for the composition and conclusion of the contract in the supervisory board. The proposal thus allows the Director to receive a fixed and variable remuneration. The fixed remuneration will be determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by a regulation, in accordance with the ratio of average wages in the company or group. In addition, the Director will also be entitled to variable work if he achieves the objectives set by the Supervisory Board. The law only establishes the early margin of variable remuneration, which is 30% of fixed remuneration. The law also restricts the payment of emoluments. Thus, directors who remain employed in a company that they formerly run will not be entitled to a retirement and will be entitled to other rights which are important for the normal performance of their function, such as the use of a service vehicle, a representative and so on. This, of course, is within the framework of the rules to be established by the Supervisory Board. The bill also provides for criminal sanctions for members of the Supervisory Boards if they do not comply with the provisions of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Matjaž Han to present the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u50	Nice hello again, President. Dear Secretary of State. Dear Members and Members! On 3 February 2010, the Committee on the Economy considered the draft Law on the remuneration of managers in companies owned by the Republic of Slovenia and by self-government local communities as a parent. The committee was attended by representatives of the proposer, the Ministry of Economy and the Legal and Legislative Service. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service on the basis of which the Coalition's parliamentary groups have also tabled amendments, taking into account the bulk of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service. The Committee was also given an opinion by the State Council, which supports the bill and proposes two concrete amendments to the bill, which the Committee did not take into account. Since, in accordance with Rule 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was sent to the local communities, opinions from three municipalities, namely the municipality of Trbovlje, the municipality of Izola and the municipality of Maribor, were forwarded to the Committee. It follows from these opinions that the establishment of a single system of remuneration and rights of directors in companies [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u51	I'm asking you to listen to me in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u52	the majority ownership of the country or local communities is also necessary. [[...]] The meeting took place in the introduction, as today's State Secretary from the Ministry of Economy, Mag. Darja Radic briefly presented in particular the fundamental reasons for the adoption of the bill as well as its main solution. At the end of the opening presentation, however, she stressed that the Government of the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups was in favour. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, most discussers supported the proposed legislative text, stressing that we really need it for different reasons. However, individual debaters drew attention to some of the issues raised at the time of its consideration. It was thus established that it should be borne in mind that the legislative procedure also contains the proposal for a law on the management of capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia, which will systematically regulate the management of capital investments owned by the Republic of Slovenia and the local communities. It would therefore be thorough to consider whether it would be more reasonable or more appropriate to regulate the remuneration of the directors of these companies within its framework. A procedural proposal has also been made to terminate the proposal until it is determined how the remuneration and directors are dealt with in the Proposal for a Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia. This proposal has not been adopted. However, the main part of the debate concerned the provisions of Article 4 which raised the following questions. The variable part of the remuneration would indicate a greater emphasis and not be so rigorously defined as to motivate directors in this way. With regard to the provision of Article 4, paragraph 5, of these provisions and the provisions of Article 7, the question of the sovereignty of the local communities or the appropriateness of the proposed solution was highlighted, whereby the Government would be the one by order to determine the amount of the eligible remuneration for companies owned by local communities and the solution that the supervisory authorities would also have to provide the Ministry of Economy with a contract. The view was expressed that, given the division of powers between the State and the local communities, it would be more appropriate if the salaries of the directors of the companies which, for example, had been decided by the local community by the municipal councils of those communities. The relationship between the provision of the fifth indent of Article 4(1) and the provision of the second paragraph of that Article was unclear. On the one hand, the remuneration of directors with shares is prohibited and, on the other hand, as an exception, it is allowed, which is very unusual. Representatives and representatives of the Government also made specific clarifications on the issues raised and made their answers very clear. At the end of the discussion, the Committee adopted all the amendments of the parliamentary groups: SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS, and the text of the amended bill, which is also an integral part of the Committee's report, was prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Here comes the presentation of the position of the members of the groups. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues. I present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law on the remuneration of managers in companies owned by the majority of the Republic of Slovenia and the local self-government communities. In the DeSUS Group, we will be happy to support the proposal for a law on the remuneration of managers ahead of us. According to our assessment, the law is fairly satisfactory in limiting the level of remuneration of directors of state services, especially in view of the present financial crisis and the economic recession, which we also feel very intensely in our country. In such a crisis, there will be a particular difference in the level of remuneration of workers and managers, particularly in companies owned by the State and local communities. So far, the government has not had a legal opportunity to limit the level of remuneration, but it has only been able to make recommendations that have proved to be more ineffective than not. Unfortunately for us that the Government has no choice but to force managers to act economically and that the variable part of the wages that will depend on the performance of the company really makes them work for the successful work of the company they run. Thus, the Government has drawn up a proposal for a law establishing uniform rules for determining the remuneration and retirement of members of administrations, executive directors, employers and procurators in these companies. The proposal for a law contains the principles and limitations to be taken into account by the members of the Supervisory Boards in determining the remuneration and rights of directors. In doing so, the State, as the majority owner, took advantage of the right to intervene in society and did not, at the same time, withdraw powers from the supervisory boards. Gross salaries of leading workers will be determined in relation to the average gross wage in the company or group. The Director's benefits will consist of gross salary and remuneration. [[...]] The composition and conclusion of the contract will still be the responsibility of the Supervisory Board. However, penalties are also provided for supervisors who do not comply with the law. All contracts and regulations contrary to this law will be null and void. In the DeSUS Group, we particularly welcome the maximum six gross monthly salaries of the Director. An individual manager will only be entitled to a retirement if he leaves the company, which is actually the point of his retirement. In view of the above, and in the hope and belief that we will reduce the dissatisfaction of citizens and citizens with regard to the enormous payments to state-owned businesses, we will be pleased to support this proposal in the Desus Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Representative of the Government! Today it has come to the public with information that 99,783 unemployed are registered in the Republic of Slovenia as of 31 January. In the past, no one has ever wondered how it is possible for the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to have a salary of around 6 to 7,000 gross euros, while, without supervision, various directors, members of the supervisory boards of companies that have even dealt with red numbers, salaries that have been drawn in five-digit numbers; 2-, 3-, 4-fold higher wages than the President of the Government. And we have endured this shame for a long, long time. Thank God that the Government has remembered to propose a law on the remuneration of managers, although this law provides only the same criteria for determining remuneration and eliminates the imbalances so far, although it still leaves the members of the supervisory authorities to decide on the level of remuneration of directors of state-owned companies and companies owned by municipalities, self-government local communities, is at least a step. I would be very happy to welcome all Members and Members to the consideration and adoption of this law, which will enter into force in three months' time, including comparative information on what this story has been like in all the companies owned by the State so far. I would like to see these figures once, how much the director of this, this, this company, the President of the Supervisory Board, the members of the Supervisory Boards and the committees had to pay. Billions of euros went into this account because there was a pure anarchy in this area, and the result, among other things, is 99,783 unemployed! We will support this law in the Slovenian National Party, once again alerting, as I have pointed out on the home labour body, and this warning has not come to the attention of too much attention that it has provided for the fifth indent of Article 4(1), contrary to Article 4, paragraph 5. In fact, it first speaks of the fact that it is not possible for directors or that they should not be paid off with securities, and later in paragraph 5 it says that they can be paid off in 50% with securities. This is the first ambiguity or conflict between me and the law. And secondly, why does that bother me? For example, if a certain amount of retirement is paid, for example, Bogdan Barovic will receive 2000 euros of retirement, the story is clear. If Bogdan Barovic gets 50% of the securities, they could be worth 500 euros or 7000 euros, which means I didn't get a certain pension, which is why it bothers me. We are even more disturbed by Article 8, which speaks of the punishment received by members of the Supervisory Board or committees acting contrary to the law. It is right to punish them, but, logically, how can a member of the Supervisory Board act contrary to the law: for he cannot, for he cannot! What are we going to punish him for? He must not be a member of the Governing Council if he is working contrary to the law! And as such, you should know the laws by now. We will support this law on remuneration, and I hope that this law will continue to develop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u57	The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law on the remuneration of business persons in companies owned by the Republic of Slovenia and the self-government of local communities. This is one in a series of actions during the current global crisis. The main solution brought about by law is to limit wages [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u59	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u60	a single reward system. [[...]] At the beginning of the crisis, the Government adopted a communication on the award of administrations and supervisory councils. However, we soon found ourselves in difficulty, as some companies have not followed these recommendations in a consistent manner. Regardless of the issue of remuneration and the support of the law, we would like to point out in particular the fundamental problem at the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia, which is the cause of the law before us today, namely that our system of corporate governance of state-owned enterprises obviously does not work. Why so, it can be a complex but simple question. It is a matter of the fact that the state already has leverage to set guidelines for the functioning of the administration through the appointment of supervisors, but the supervisors are independent of the owners. We therefore hope and expect the proposed law to contribute to the final establishment of a transparent corporate governance system, where relations will be regulated and transparent, and where the responsibility of those who manage companies will be known in particular. Until this objective is achieved, however, it is appropriate to support a law that will at least regulate the area of wages. Finally, it is also an important symbolic move that management must share the fate of the global crisis with other citizens. The law gives rise to a solution towards establishing uniform rules for determining the remuneration and retirement of members of administrations, executive directors, employers and procurators in these companies. At this point in the Liberal Democrats Club of Slovenia, this solution is assessed as appropriate, but it is worth noting the risk of any act of law with different innovative solutions. Indeed, we must ensure that such measures, as the Government says, do not jeopardise the very long-term sustainability of society. Especially in these times, in the most important companies, we must not allow these companies to fail to manage the most capable and best-quality personnel. In view of the above, we will vote in favour of the adoption of a law regretting that we have not adopted this law in the past, because laws cannot be adopted again.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matevž Frangež. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u62	Respected and respected! Social Democrats are allies of the harmonious social development of our society. We do not see Slovenian communities as communities of major social differences, but we recognize our examples in approaches that systematically regulate the relationship between the highest and lowest wages. After the minimum wage has been raised, we now approach the regulation of the other side of this movement and turn it into a distance in that part of the economy in which the Republic of Slovenia is present as owner. By regulating corporate governance of state-owned enterprises, which is also in the process of adoption in the National Assembly, the Social Democrats promise that with responsible and strategic governance of state-owned enterprises we will finally prove that the country can be a good owner of companies and that these companies have an important development, economic and social impact on the coherent development of the whole community. Therefore, as the core of this debate, we understand our common efforts to regulate corporate governance of state-owned enterprises while considering where the country is acting as a strategic owner and must maintain this role in the future, where it is possible to withdraw from the ownership of enterprises. We have repeatedly stressed that this withdrawal must be deliberate and selective and must not in any way follow ambitions after the sale of state property. It is clear that, particularly in times of economic and social crisis, the attention of the public to the salaries of managers in state-owned enterprises is particularly sensitive. The management of this area is further welcomed by the public because of the indignation caused by unacceptable taycunaisation in the past period, which has clearly pointed to the accumulation of assets in the hands of a handful. This is even more painful for many of us, because this property has created many generations of all our people. Social Democrats in Slovenia recognize many good companies. Good business is for us the company in which good and satisfied workers work, who are fairly paid for a good job and who have dedicated and pervasive managers who, through their management, pursue the best interests of these companies, employees, owners, the environment and communities. How important is a good and motivated manager who has an appropriate ethical relationship with the company he manages, especially when we look at some of the Slovenian companies that have seriously compromised or at least lost the strategic advantages they have previously created in the Slovenian, European and global markets due to poor management and depletion of companies. The experience of the previous mandate has been particularly painful for some of these companies. Cases of excellence in the past have clearly pointed to the inappropriate regulation of wage levels and variable remuneration of companies owned by the Republic of Slovenia and the local self-governance communities. It is precisely because of these cases that the need for this area to be regulated has proved to be. We can also say that the basis for the proposed law is a coalition contract, which clearly states that the coalition will stand for the ceiling of managers' salaries, awards and discharges, in a way that will be linked to ensuring the long-term stability of companies managed by managers. As a result, the bill under consideration will regulate virtually all the remuneration of these managers, from gross wages to variable pay and, last but not least, the issue of cancellations with a limit to a maximum of 6 times the gross salary. In the parliamentary group, we believe that regulation of the area of remuneration of managers is welcome, and in some respects it is necessary, so in the interest of the coherent and related development of the Slovenian community in the interests of society of small social differences, we will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Daniel Krivec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Nicely greeted. In the coalition agreement, coalition partners, together with the Association of Employers of Slovenia and the Economic Chamber, took the initiative to make a recommendation on the ceiling for managers' salaries, awards and emoluments, as well as for the meetings and awards of supervisory boards in all companies. The management of directors' incomes in companies has not been under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia until now, even if they were directly or indirectly owned by the State. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not decide on contracts with and contracts with managers of companies, except in exceptional cases, for example with Sodo, with Borzen d.o.o., where, as the sole founder, it appoints and disposes of the director and decides on his salary. This is the responsibility of the Supervisory Council under the Act on Economic Companies. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has so far been able to recommend to members of supervisory authorities in companies owned by the majority of the country only how they should act in determining the salaries of directors. If the proposal of this law is adopted, this will change and the government will set uniform rules for determining the remuneration and retirement of members of administrations, executive directors, employers and procurists in companies owned by the majority state. The proposed law thus states that the proposed law achieves the objective of establishing a single system of remuneration for managers in companies where the Republic of Slovenia or the local community is directly or indirectly a majority of the company or both. According to a new proposal, the director of this bill will be entitled to the gross salary fixed by the Government by the regulation. It's supposed to be 5 times the average gross salary. The Director shall also be entitled to a variable part of the payment for performance, which may amount to a maximum of 30% of the Director's gross salary in the financial year. It is also entitled to a pension, which shall be fixed at a maximum of 6 times the gross monthly salary of the Director. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we assess this step in the right direction and we will not oppose this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Alojz Posedel. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposal of the law. There are several reasons why the unanimous support for this proposal and also the joy that has been confirmed so far by the presentations of the groups of Members that this proposal is good and necessary. The adjustment of remuneration payments so far has not been regulated in such a way as to enable the Government to regulate the level of payments in companies, even where the majority or the shareholding is owned directly or indirectly, since this was the responsibility under the law on companies of the supervisory boards. It has been shown that many cases have shown a lack of restraint so far and that the Government has already responded and adopted recommendations in 2009 on how individual supervisory councils should act, but this could have been taken into account or not. Even more so were the cases that occurred at the time of the financial and economic crisis. It showed, or better said, how, how, how and how some of the remunerations of the leading employees were paid, and that these payments were due to short-term objectives, because they were focused only on achieving short-term objectives, which showed even extraordinary results in the short term, and they could even lead to the start of a successful company. And here appeared in the work of managers also an appearance, can be called moral gambling, when it is practical only to reward success - by not being punished in the long run - there have been enormous payments and phenomena that were unacceptable. Therefore, the decision and the Government's proposal to pay the regulation in all areas by law will be linked directly to the success of the business, which will not only be measured for a short period of time, but will ensure the firm's long-term development capacity and sustainability. In this regard, in the Group of Members, we also point out that such a law does not punish managers who know that they are in the first place for success and for the work of businesses, that such solutions in the law are adopted and proposed because of individuals who have taken advantage of the situation, and that they are only some who have not respected that basic, moral basis, how to act and not pay enormous benefits while even forgiving workers. That is why this law is good and we will really support this law in the Group of Members because it will limit the benefits within the framework of social acceptability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Bogovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u68	Good afternoon. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear President, Secretary of State. The recommendations on how to regulate the remuneration of the leading companies in the majority ownership of the Republic of Slovenia or of the local self-government communities were adopted for the first time in 1998, then also in 2002 and last in 2009, but in practice the recommendations made to the representatives of the supervisory boards were not sufficient. In a time of economic crisis and an increasingly obvious and present crisis of moral, ethical values, it is more than obvious that it is essential to regulate this social relationship with the law. Clearly, as a society and individuals, we are not mature enough to have those responsible behaved and acted in a timely and appropriate manner. All too often, especially in the public sector, or if we go even wider this time, even in companies owned by the majority of the country or the municipality, they cannot resist temptation and, due to the lack of general responsibility towards the State of the Republic of Slovenia and its citizens and its citizens, they are taking advantage of opportunities and situations particularly in their own financial, material benefits. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore support the proposal to regulate this issue by law and thus lay down uniform rules for the operation and exercise of the function of the manager of the Republic of Slovenia or of the local community in these companies. Once again, we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you. We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended bill will take place today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the conclusion of the 25th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.10. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. PERIOD OF THE DAY - This is the second reading of the PROPOSAL FOR SERVICES IN THE INTERNAL MARKET, within the framework of the regular procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mag. Darja Radic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Members. The proposal for a law on services in the internal market partially transposes the Directive on services in the internal market of the European Union at Slovenian level. This Directive is of an extremely horizontal nature. It applies to all services except those specifically exempted from this treatment. In addition to the general requirements concerning the authorisation to provide services through the establishment of an economic company and for the free cross-border provision of services, the proposal also defines administrative simplification, also defines how to ensure the quality of services and also includes a chapter on the legal cooperation of the competent authorities of the Member States. With regard to administrative simplification, it can be pointed out that, in this context, there is also a requirement for the establishment of an electronic single point of contact, the appropriate operation of which is a condition for the correct and successful transposition of the Internal Market Services Directive into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Through this single contact point, which we are also preparing in Slovenia and which will be linked to the competent authorities, all service providers in the European Union will be able to carry out all procedures and formalities for the provision of distance and e-mail services in the Republic of Slovenia, from application to authorisation. In addition, through a single contact point, providers and recipients will also be able to obtain up-to-date and clear information regarding all services in the Republic of Slovenia. As regards the free establishment, I would like to point out that this chapter deals with issues relating to licences necessary for the provision of certain services through the head office of an economic company, but defines more precisely the specific procedures of sectoral rules. Maybe the emphasis in this chapter. In this section, the law defines procedures, deadlines, issuances and legal remedies, their validity, the possibility of choosing between multiple candidates. The key novelty in this chapter is that in the field of authorisation it is considered that the silence of the authority means the granting of an authorisation, but not the possibility of a complaint, such as, for example, a general provision of the Administrative Procedure Act. The accession to be granted by silence to the Authority and, of course, to exceptions in cases where important public interest tasks such as security, public order, health, environmental protection are involved. The section on the free provision of services covers the conditions for service providers under which services can be provided in the Republic of Slovenia. As I have already mentioned, the law also regulates the quality of services achieved by providing information on providers and their services, insurance and professional liability and guarantees, including rules on the prevention of the incompatibility of certain activities and on the resolution of complaints in the event of an incorrect service. Then we have a chapter on the administrative cooperation of the Member States of the European Union which lays down rules for the compulsory cooperation of competent authorities with the competent authorities of other Member States with a view to ensuring supervision of service providers. No, and for the exchange of information on providers and for alerts in the case of services which are hazardous to health, safety or the environment, as well as procedures for individual exceptions to the free provision of services, the so-called e-VEM system shall be used in the event of doubt as to the reliability of the providers. In general, the law also defines the control exercised by the competent inspection bodies, although this law does not specify precisely because it concerns all the competent authorities in the areas regulated by the sectoral laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you. The draft law was regarded by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I give the floor to President Matjaž Han to present the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again a nice greeting to the Secretary of State, to you and to the Members of Parliament! As in the previous point of 3 February 2010, the Committee on the Economy considered the proposal for a law on services in the internal market as a parent body. The Committee was attended by representatives and representatives of the proposer, the Ministry of Economy and the Legal and Legislative Service said, and representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia were also present. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service on the basis of which, as usual, the Group of Members of the Coalition also tabled amendments, taking into account the main part of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service. The meeting was held as usual, first of all by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy Mag. Dara Radic briefly presented the fundamental reasons for the adoption of the bill and in particular its main solution. In doing so, she stressed that the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market were partially transposed into the Slovenian legal order. At the end of the opening presentation, however, she pointed out that the Government is supporting the amendments of the coalition's parliamentary groups because they are nomotechnic in nature by contributing to the improvement of the legislative text. The members of the Committee did not discuss the proposed solutions in the context of the discussion on individual articles. They discussed only Article 7, which highlighted the issue of regular or deregulated professions and the problems that arise in practice in this regard. At the end of the discussion, the Committee adopted all amendments to the SD, Res, DeSUS and LDS parliamentary groups, and the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the report of the Committee, was prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u74	Undoubtedly, I can say that we are all, all 90 Members and Members, of the view that, at this time, the work of the National Assembly, especially the Government and within the Government, is one of the most important works of the Ministry of Economy. Therefore, with all due respect for your efforts and at your ministry, I find it strange and very unfortunate that you are busy and wasting your time and efforts with such a law as this - the Law on Services in the Internal Market, when there are so many important laws before us that stem from the exit strategy. I will tell you why, in order to understand correctly, I will also say the position of the Slovenian National Party, which is absolutely against and asks Members and Members to oppose this law. Look why. According to the available data, none of the Member States of the European Union has an area of freedom to provide services regulated in such a way as to lead to the implementation of this Directive. No one! In view of the fact that this Directive has been on the rise for a long time, it was expected that Member States would wait for the arrangements under this Directive to be adopted on the basis of the principle of origin of the seat of the tenderer, whether it would relate to services of public interest and so on. That is why the Member States did not regulate this area. And no member has adopted the rules. Now, please tell me one clever reason why Slovenia should have it! At this time of crisis, when so many important laws must be passed, we are dealing with the content of a law that no one in Europe has! What is most sad is that we will allow the only 27 member states to provide services freely in the country of Slovenia and even the free establishment and associated area in legal cooperation. We, the only ones, in Europe as a whole, are saved and will offer others to come, trade freely with us, establish market niches in the country of Slovenia, behave as a master in the country of the Republic of Slovenia. When we get to Austria, Germany, France, Italy, Spain, Greece, Malta - wherever, 27, I won't count them - they'll say, "Wow," can't. You have nothing to do here because we have not yet adopted a directive on services in the internal market." This fact is understood from the explanation of the proposal of this law. I think that we must be so honest Members, regardless of the coalition, the opposition, regardless of the political colours, that we will once and for all say to this, "No!" Who are we slaves to in this country of the Republic of Slovenia? It is nice and right to set a pattern and respect certain directives. But why do we, when we clearly acknowledge that others are thinking and waiting - stressed - wait! Why don't we wait and then pick up what's good, at this time - with all due respect, I know that the Ministry of Labour, I appreciate it, too, the Minister of Economy, but I really think it's a waste of time, a waste of energy for us dealing with the Internal Market Services Directive, while other developed countries - Germany, France, Italy - are waiting. I would really like to hear a clever reason why we must be more papal than the pope and be saved over all. We will absolutely oppose the draft law in the Slovenian National Party. No offense, representatives of the ministry, I will be very pleased to support - I will be happy if they do the same to others, so that you will have a little more time for yourself and to create those laws that are necessary for us not to reach 100,000 unemployed in one month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone gathered in the hall. We have before us a proposal for a law that partially transposes the provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market into the Slovenian legal order. Thus, in addition to general matters concerning the authorisation to provide services outside the office of the company and for the free cross-border provision of services in the internal market, the law will lay down rules on the simplification of administrative procedures, including the abolition, which can be said to be excessive or unnecessary problems, thus introducing the possibility of the full or partial elimination of certain authorisations and thus deregulation of services. The law also contains rules on the provision of quality services and a specific chapter relating to the administrative cooperation of competent authorities in the Member States. When we talk about quality, which is also important in terms of ensuring the safety and information of the service user, it will be achieved by providing all relevant information about the providers and their services, both in terms of professional responsibility insurance and guarantees. In the part of the law relating to administrative simplification, it is a matter of defining and simplifying procedural and formal requirements to highlight the requirement to establish a single point of contact, the proper functioning of which is a condition for the correct and successful transposition of the Internal Market Services Directive into the Slovenian legal order. In establishing a single contact point, we are late, as the establishment has been taking place since 2006, and this ministry is solving the establishment of a temporary information portal that will allow businesses in the European Union to obtain basic information on the rules for the provision of services in Slovenia, while activities for the establishment of a single contact point are continuing in parallel, and an action plan is already being drawn up. And the last thing I want to point out is that the law also regulates the supervision of service providers. To this end, a means of compulsory cooperation between the Member States of the competent authorities with a view to, and in this context also to, the single electronic information system for the up-to-date exchange of information is defined. This is therefore an important and useful law, both in terms of content and in terms of simplification of procedures, which means less costs - for the law, which therefore regulates and eliminates a number of past and current problems and issues relating to the provision of services in the EU internal market. In the House of Liberal Democrats, we will support the proposal for a law on services in the internal market.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u78	Your Honor! In view of one of the previous discussions, it is worth stressing that our membership in the European Union does not only mean that we can acquire European funds, but rather that we can dynamite our development, but it does. We must also respect the common agreed rules, including the common agreed rules on how we will enforce and transpose common European legislation into our legal order. The Directive has been adopted by the European Council and the national parliaments in the transposition of the directives into their legal order does not have a lot of room for manoeuvre, but this Directive is in line with the decisions taken, which Slovenia has already participated in at the level of the European Council, in its legal order. And that is exactly what we are doing today with the European Council Directive on services in the internal market. In doing so, it does not hold information that we are doing this first, on the contrary, in the 10 Member States - Austria, Italy, Lithuania and other countries - have already adopted this horizontal regulation in their legal order, and in other countries this is in the process of adoption in the national Parliament. The Services Directive also provides for a single contact point; most Member States have taken care of timely transmission and implementation. However, not all of them have done so and among these countries Slovenia is also mentioned in a round of six countries. This Directive and the implementation of this Directive by the law before us today continue to improve the position of the Slovenian consumer as it will allow him to take a look at all information concerning the providers of a particular service on our market. The mandatory provision of information on the quality of services will result in improvements in the quality of implementation of these services. So, in one place, a quality comparison of service providers in one place. In addition, competition on our market will increase to a certain extent, as foreign companies will be able to obtain information on the state of competition through the point of contact and via the points of e-VEM will be able to set up businesses freely, thereby greatly facilitating the process according to the current situation. In this context, it is worth stressing that this directive not only offers the possibility of foreign companies to exploit such a process in Slovenia, but - and I hope that in the Slovenian economy we will know the benefits of these opportunities - the same opportunities for the Slovenian economy to perform on the single European market; therefore, on the markets of the 27 Member States. For all of this we are convinced that the law will have a positive impact on the development of competition in the Slovenian market, will have a positive impact on consumers' consciousness and will therefore be supported by the Social Democrats without reservation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u79	Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u80	Good-bye, everybody! According to the applicants of the Internal Market Services Bill, the objectives, principles and main solutions follow the European Community Directive on services in the internal market, which lays down general rules governing the exercise of the right to freedom of establishment and the free cross-border provision of services. The aim of the law is to correctly and consistently implement the transposition of the Directive. The purpose of the Internal Market Services Directive is not to fully liberalise the market for services, but to provide them through the principles and rules established by the case-law of the Court of Justice of the European Community. These practices are reintroduced by the Internal Market Services Directive, through administrative cooperation between Member States, by simplifying procedures and establishing a single contact point. The aim of the Directive is, inter alia, to ensure administrative cooperation necessary for the exchange of information in order to establish an effective control mechanism and to take action in the event of infringements between Member States. The Directive also requires the establishment of a single point of contact by each Member State. A single contact point is intended for providers and recipients of services and not for the administration of Member States. The aim of the Directive is to obtain information, procedures and formalities for obtaining licences and registrations through electronic commerce. However, all such tasks and procedures must be carried out from the place and country of establishment of the service provider to another Member State. Among other things, it is important to achieve the quality of the services provided to providers. This principle is concrete through a series of provisions in the Directive itself and constitutes an upgrade to the prohibition of discriminatory treatment of individual tenderers. Since this law transposes the directive into our legal order, this law will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Radovan Žerjav will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear secretary, colleagues, colleagues. The purpose of the law before us is to regulate the provision of services in the internal market of the European Union. In the area of the free provision of services, there may be very different forms of discriminatory treatment, particularly of indirect barriers, which are not obvious at first sight, but still hinder or make the provision of services less attractive to foreign service providers. In this respect, the Directive seeks to build an internal market for services which will be free of such barriers and where it will be free to establish and provide services equivalent to the provision of services within a given national market. Slovenia does not have a specific provision on services in the internal market. In Slovenian legislation, trade law implements those provisions of Article 49 of the Treaty on European Community which were necessary for the non-discriminatory treatment of foreign service providers in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia when it comes to craft services. In the area of the provision of services, however, a number of sector-specific rules governing individual services have been indirectly affected to a certain extent by the Act on Companies, which also regulates the operation of foreign companies, the Law on Foreigners, which regulates formalities regarding the possibility of service providers in the Republic of Slovenia, the Law on the Procedure for the Recognition of Qualifications of EU Citizens for the Conduct of regulated professions or activities in the Republic of Slovenia. The red thread of the provisions on the free provision of services and the free establishment and related areas in administrative cooperation, single contact points and so on is, as already said, primarily free access and non-discriminatory treatment, and the elimination of any other obstacles which directly or indirectly, in particular non-discriminatory, restrict both freedoms or cause them to be less attractive to foreign or domestic service providers, to domestic or foreign service recipients and to legal and natural persons established in another Member State, and want to carry out activities in the Republic of Slovenia meaningfully, to lay down conditions for each other in the same act and to take into account the memorandum of the Directive. In the SLS Group, we will certainly support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u84	Respectable. Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law on services in the internal market. Let me begin by saying that in the Group of Members, we are not concerned that Slovenia is one of the first countries to coordinate this legal order and to harmonise legal legislation with European legislation. Sooner or later, all European countries will do so and will thus be given the opportunity to operate normally in the field of services in the internal market. By 2006, when the Internal Market Services Directive was adopted, the provision of services was subject to Article 49 of the Treaty establishing the European Union. Since this specific provision has been repeatedly assessed by the European Court of Justice, which, from the case to the case of a violation of European Union law, has also been judged very differently, the European Union has finally adopted a general act summarizing the rules already drawn up in case law. The Internal Market Services Directive therefore provides for a general, legal system-wide and comprehensive scope for the provision of services on the internal market and requires Member States to adapt their internal legislation to the content by complying with the Directive. In addition to the provisions on the provision of services, national implementing rules should include provisions on free establishment, rules on simplification of procedures, rules on a single point of contact and rules on administrative cooperation between countries. Everything mentioned so far has not yet been arranged with us. However, the scope of the provision of services concerns or indirectly affects a number of sectoral rules. The transposition of the Directive shall be carried out in accordance with the European Commission’s recommendations under a roof general rule, according to the proposal. At the same time, there will certainly be a need for appropriate adoption of those sectoral rules governing individual services if they do not comply with the adoption of the Services Act in the internal market and with this Directive. The DeSUS Group will support the law by allowing it to correctly and consistently implement a binding European legal act ensuring the freedom of the free market for services, with this taking place as far as possible through the European Court of Justice's established case-law, administrative cooperation between Member States, by simplifying procedures and establishing a single point of contact. Of course, it is expected that there will also be greater competition between domestic service providers, while the law seeks to ensure that there is no reverse discrimination. On the other hand, access by our Slovenian suppliers to the markets of the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Community will be facilitated. Also, as a result of the opening up of the market, we can expect more foreign investments, competitive prices of services and increased opportunities for growth and employment. These are the main arguments that guide us in the DeSUS Group that we will also support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended bill will take place today, in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 25th item of the agenda or at the latest 21.10. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY - OTHER CONSTRUCTION OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE ENERGY LAW under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mrs. Radic, Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Members! The last amendments to the energy law were adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in 2000. The law has been amended three times so far, and this time the reasons for amending the law are linked to individual ineffective existing solutions, mainly related to the construction and maintenance of energy infrastructure, the provision of public energy services and the reduction of administrative barriers. If I briefly summarize the main solutions or the novelty of the amendment of the law. First, the procedure for the operation of small power plants on the premises is simplified. Thus, citizens will no longer have to register electricity production activities in the form of a self-employed entrepreneur for up to 50 kilowatts. We also prescribe that municipalities in their acts must provide heat supply using renewable energy sources and energy-efficient solutions; we introduce the possibility of commercial heat supply networks for smaller groups of buildings where total heat output does not exceed 1 megawatt hour per hour. We also introduce a so-called efficiency dividend in energy saving in the public sector, prescribe energy accounting and annual energy efficiency targets in the public sector. Furthermore, we set out measures to effectively exercise control over the functioning of the energy market, which the Energy Agency already has under the existing energy law, which is a direct response to the recently launched European Commission procedure against the 25 Member States of the European Union due to the lack of transparency in access to cross-border electricity and gas networks. We also introduce mandatory reserves, including for remote heating systems with heat. We are also introducing a series of power outages in the event of a crisis, as it has already been prescribed for gas. We are reducing the excessive demand for heat efficiency in the co-incineration of wood biomass and thus allow some cogenerations to continue operating on wood mass even after 2009. We are removing the uncertainties in the placement of energy facilities in space and in the regulation of ownership, service relations with existing energy infrastructure, and we are eliminating a number of other uncertainties, as well as administrative barriers to illogicality, which have been shown in the implementation of the existing law in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Han for the presentation of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I hope you don't have to say hello again because I've already greeted you three times today, but one more good day. The Committee on the Economy considered the draft law at its 18th session, 18th session. 2. 2010 The Committee was informed of the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Economic Affairs, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and the Commission of the Council for Local Self-Government and Regional Development, which also supported the proposal of the law. With the proposal for amendments submitted by the Economic Interest Association for the Distribution of Natural Gas, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and Elektro Slovenije d.o.o. In accordance with Article 145 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the draft law was also sent to the local communities for their opinion. The Committee received opinions from the Municipality of Celje, the Department of Environmental Protection of the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Community of Slovenia, the Association of Slovenia and the municipalities of Izola, Ormož and Vrhnika. The amendments to the bill were tabled by Mr Willi Rezman and the coalition's parliamentary group. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service made explicit remarks at the meeting of the Committee on Articles 14, 16 and 23. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, the Committee has focused on the provisions of Article 15 and the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and by Mr Willi Rezman to this Article. It also made comments to that article on the majority of the interested public, namely GIS, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the municipality of Ljubljana and Celje. Article 15 requires local communities to determine in their general and individual legal acts how to heat only by using renewable energy sources or by producing heat and electricity with high efficiency. While the majority of the panellists expressed support for the amendment of the coalition groups, in relation to this amendment, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service drew attention to a number of issues that require further reflection. According to the opinion of the Director-General of the Directorate of Energy, Mag. The digger who participated as a representative of the proposer of the law at the meeting of the committee would make sense to supplement Article 15 by stating the same reasons contained in Article 36 of the current law and referring to the usefulness of the Minister's decision. But these are ecological, energy and technological reasons. The possible amendment to Article 15 of the amended bill is to be proposed by the Government. The Committee was also presented with a written amendment to Article 35 of the Chamber of Commerce, supplementing Article 66.b, by providing that the mandatory provision of energy savings and the collection of fuel price supplements under this Act does not apply to fuels consumed by final customers included in the European Union's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system. In addition, the representative of the Ministry of Economy pointed out that the envisaged date for the inclusion of companies in such a scheme was only 1 January 2013 and that such a proposal would therefore be acceptable only if it had been in force since then. In view of this, the representative of the Chamber proposed a re-examination of the proposal under consideration so that the Government could propose a possible amendment to Article 35 of the amended proposal. As the comments of interested parties to the other articles were not supported in the intersectoral coordination and some were rejected by the Government's Legislative Service, the Committee did not take its decisions on their basis. In the context of the consideration of the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted amendments to the coalition groups, but did not define itself until the amendment of Mr Willi Rezman to Article 15. The amendment of Mr Rezman's coalition groups also left this amendment irrelevant. The Committee voted on all the articles below and also adopted them. The amendments adopted, as well as the Rules of Procedure, are included in the amended bill, which is an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you. A presentation of the views of the meetings of the Members shall follow. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Hello again! As has already been said in the introduction, the proposal for amendments and the completion of the energy law brings the following most important solutions: simplifying the procedures for the operation of small plants, giving priority to the treatment of renewable energy sources and energy-efficient solutions, introducing an effective dividend in energy savings, and some other things. These amendments and additions to the Energy Law will thus eliminate the individual no longer appropriate provisions of the existing law relating to the construction of energy infrastructure, the implementation of the energy policy of the State and the implementation of economic public services in the field of energy. It is important to point out that the administrative burden on electricity production is reduced, in particular, by smaller power plants, where there will be no need to register activities. We are also solving the problem of the implementation of the regulatory tasks of the competent agency, as we have received a reminder from the European Commission in the field of gas and electricity. An important novelty of the law is also the so-called alignment of national energy policy with local communities in the field of renewable energy for the production of heat. To this end, municipalities that do not have an accepted local energy concept for parts of the settlements, where no economic public service for the distribution of natural gas or other energy gases from the network is implemented, will have to determine in their general and individual acts how to heat up only by using renewable energy sources or by co-generation of heat and electricity with high efficiency. [[...]] Such a solution, according to the Liberal Democrats Club, is a compromise between a clear commitment to promote the use of renewable energy sources and effective planning of the energy infrastructure of individual municipalities. At the Liberal Democrats' Club, we will break the proposed law, and we will also support the amendments tabled by the coalition parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Anton Kolarič will present the position of the Ambassador of the Group of Social Democrats, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Government representatives. The reasons for the adoption of the amendment of the Energy Law are clear, already listed by the State Secretary, such as the simplification of the operation of small power plants to remove the requirement to register this activity, the possibility of commercial heat supply networks for smaller groups of buildings, the introduction of mandatory reserves for district heating systems with heat, the increased importance of renewable energy sources and so on. In addition, the amendment removes some of the uncertainties that have been shown in the implementation of the existing law and gives new powers to the Energy Agency, thereby clarifying its competences and obligations. At the same time, it removes the uncertainty about the placement of energy facilities in space. With all the changes mentioned in the paper, the SD Group sees the Government's clear commitment to the 25-25-25 commitments, since in the provisions of Article 15 of the novel, which requires municipalities to give greater importance to renewable energy sources and through the introduction of an effective dividend in buildings that the state administration has in use, these objectives are truly clearly pursued. Article 15 was the only one that encountered the biggest controversy, since the original form completely limited local communities to the use of renewable energy sources. The amendment adopted by the Committee is complemented by the amendment we have on the table, but in our view, it is the optimal solution to the use of the current infrastructure and plans and, at the same time, to the use of renewable energy sources. Since, as stated above, the law clearly defines the energy objectives and, above all, encourages increased use of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, we will support the novelty of the Social Democrats, as well as the amendment to article 15 tabled by the coalition partners.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you. Mag. Andrej Vizjak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u94	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Economy! Colleague and colleagues, good afternoon! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we estimate that virtually all the provisions of this novel energy law are useful and necessary and that they are due to certain problems in the implementation of the energy law in practice and, of course, the practice has imposed them as necessary and it is right that the Ministry of Economy has elaborated them in the context of the amendment of the law and submitted them to Parliament. That is why we will support them in the Slovenian Democratic Party. However, with the support of this law, I would also like to highlight what we are missing in this law or in energy policy more broadly. Indeed, the very important provisions of this bill relate to renewable energy sources. Renewable energy sources are a priority of energy policies, in addition to, of course, the efficient use of energy and in addition to reducing CO2 emissions. This is why a package of climate and energy directives has also been adopted, which does not aim only to make cosmetic or marginal changes in European countries' views on energy and the environment, but aims to drastically cut into changes in national energy policies in order to achieve, of course, the objectives that are extremely ambitious and also impose on Member States, national objectives and thus seriously put these Member States ahead of changes in concepts, which must first be absorbed in the heads of responsible policy makers. We must find that this has not yet happened in Slovenia, and I hope it will. How else do you explain the fact that in June 2010, Slovenia has to submit a national action plan for renewable energy in Brussels or the European Commission, and we still have no draft before us today, and it is March 2010. It is only that such an extremely important national policy to promote renewable energy sources is subject to a broad professional, public debate, not least political debate in this House - we do not have a draft today! In a few months, we will have to send this to the key European institutions and then they will follow us after the implementation of this national action plan, how we will achieve our targets by 2020. And if this is a victory that will emerge quickly without cooperation with those who will have to apply projects in nature - how will we actually meet these goals and how will we avoid paying drastic penalties for failing to meet these objectives? Worse and worse? A key national project for investing in renewable energy has stopped, is at a dead point, does not move; it is the construction of hydropower plants on the Lower Sava. This project has stopped. Even though we've been listening to the reports of the current Director General of the Energy Directorate, what you did for the Central Sava, why you didn't speed up the events on the Central Sava. In the mandate of this government, the implementation project has stopped. This is because the Government is not in a position to coordinate some operational tasks in the framework of inter-departmental coordination. Because it is not able to provide financial structures for the construction of water infrastructure, this has been going on for one year. Indeed, according to the Government's decision, the Ministry of the Environment should prepare a financial structure for the construction of water infrastructure by the middle of the previous year, and it has not done so until today and it does not see when it will do so. What are we trying to say? We want to say that we have certain documents in Parliament that are necessary and useful, but they are essentially insufficient to meet the challenges of energy policies not only in Slovenia, but also in Europe and beyond. Therefore, I cannot help but add this bitter taste to this novel in this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr Aloise Posedel will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Honourable representative of the Ministry of Economy, colleagues and colleagues. We will indeed support the proposal for amendments and the completion of the energy law in the Group. I am sorry that the presentation of the views is limited only to the position and not to the debate or the replica, because I would really like to say a lot to the predecessor in terms of its implementation. A good proposal has been prepared by the Government, which introduces many of the necessary things, but is to be commended. All the other changes and warnings in the field of energy, however, I am sure that the Government is very well aware that the Director of the Directorate, Mr Janez Kopač, has marked this year's energy conference as a year of major changes in the field of energy, which means that the Government is very aware of this problem. However, to be responsible for the decisions, this proposal for amendments to the law, which we are considering today, also shows how things are being handled correctly. Positive changes are being introduced, especially in the part that is so painful in Slovenia, namely, administrative barriers, over-complex and long-term procedures, both for, for example, the construction of small power plants as well as for the placement of energy facilities in space. In this regard, we have also pointed out in the debate at the parent committee that, in order to allow for faster installation of facilities to take place, it is necessary to draw attention to possible negative impacts on people, it is said that the security shifts necessary to place these facilities in the space would not have a negative impact on the surrounding population, that security distance should be taken care of and that this concern for the energy supply of citizens and citizens is also linked to the orientations that each local community with its local energy concept ensure the correct supply and consumption ratio. It is good that this is a direction, not a regulation, because in certain cases it is extremely necessary and impossible to introduce renewable energy sources, or it would be economically reckless. Thus, we will unanimously support all the amendments made by this proposal for a law prepared by the Government, together with the amendments adopted by the Committee on the Economy in the Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u98	The law that we are considering today, says, changes and additions to the energy law, introduces a number of changes that also slowly transform our society and turn into the right direction; it is said, in the direction of the use of as many renewable resources as possible, as well as the creation of conditions for doing so. In the context of both the Committee's discussions and the review of this law within the framework of the parliamentary groups, we agree with most of the provisions in this law. There have already been some corrections, fortunately, made in the context of the Committee's hearing, particularly in the part where the distribution of natural gas was allowed, since the municipalities could have had very serious difficulties if they had previously granted this right to distributors for some ten years and would have made such a law impossible. That is why we welcome this part of the solution. Still, in Article 15, some solutions that speak of the exclusive use of renewable resources or the use of energy from cogeneration, cogeneration of heat and high-efficiency electricity in some parts seem very hard. I have also debated in this regard in the context of the debate on committees. With the amendments that are being adopted slowly, we hope that we are also coming to such a stage in this provision, that we will really tighten this issue and that we will make it possible, and also that we will legislate such provisions, that investors will in the future strive to use renewable energy sources as much as possible, to reduce the use of fossil fuels, but we must be careful that they will not be so tough as to eventually prevent an investment cycle or to be strongly encouraged by the thorny investment directives. We therefore hope that by the end of the discussion the law will have adopted solutions that will allow this to happen. On the other hand, in addressing this law and the general energy policy, as well as the orientations where Slovenia is adapting and will have to adapt even more to the orientations that are now law-abiding in the European Union. They hope to be legalized as much of the rest of the world as possible. As soon as possible, we are aiming for measures that will be green. In our opinion, the relationship between promoting efficient use or renewable sources may also be very careful with the efficient use of energy, as many of the renewables have this problem of making the sun more useful in one part of the year, in the other, that we have this problem in wind energy, that once again it is not. In Slovenia, however, we certainly have energy-free facilities and by putting great effort into efficient use, it is said, to regulate outdated facilities, that these savings may be even greater and the effect of these savings, on the other hand only through the production of renewable resources, which are also very expensive in some segments and also require a large subsidy from the country to be introduced today. To shorten, we hope that these issues, which remain open to us, will be properly settled by the end of the hearing, and then we also announce support for this amendment, supplementing the energy law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Energy Act. Many changes, many new things are in this proposal, all of which are positive from the DeSUS Group's point of view, so we will also fully support the bill. The proposed solutions and the objectives of the novel are aimed at eliminating individual ineffective existing solutions, which have proved to be such after a decade of implementation of the energy law, even though it has been amended several times. There have been some problems in the implementation of the law in practice even with regard to the latest amendment. It is also imperative to adapt the law to changes in the rules on real-law relations in the public sector and in European energy policy. The key changes that will improve the overall energy sector are also intended to remove administrative barriers. The novelty brings important shifts to the commercialisation of networks, remote heating systems and energy gas supply from the network to smaller groups of buildings. The impact of this solution will be reflected in an understanding of energy supply as a market activity and it is expected that technical and business innovation in this area will be encouraged. The maximum capacity limit is set at 1 megawatt, which is also appropriate in the first and initial stages of development. We also welcome the regulation of the so-called effective dividend in energy saving in the public sector and the trend towards greater transparency and more effective monitoring of the functioning of the energy market. The novelty of this proposal is also the belief that energy policy is spatial in its content. The novelty among several spatial measures thus introduces a mandatory priority focus on energy-efficient solutions and renewable energy sources for heating in the planning of new spatial acts in municipalities. Such orientations in spatial regulation are positive, justified and certainly have a purpose, especially if we know that we are spending €70 million on renewable energy this year. For example, last year, €32 million was spent for this purpose and 11 million was spent on energy efficiency in 2009. We are pleased with the solutions proposed, as their adoption, according to our assessment, enables the rapid development of renewable energy sources and efficient energy use, and can also be expected to accelerate the development of energy markets. The effective functioning of the energy market and infrastructure and the appropriate conditions for the implementation of public and other energy services are crucial for the electricity system, and not least for the functioning of the economy. Of course, we must not forget about the more favourable impacts on the environment and the more friendly, more encouraging and favourable energy supply systems among the users themselves. So there are many changes and many good solutions to this law, so there is no reason for the DeSUS Group not to fully support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Both in the previous law and in the present few for the introduction. The content is obviously interesting, especially for mayors or mayors and MEPs at the same time. In fact, I have found that today we are as good as possible, active and performing as possible in the main mayor and vice-districts, with everyone in the previous one, and only Mrs Brunskole would be replaced with Mr Frange. A little more than half of us are here, and obviously this means that the concern for supplementing the energy law is also a major concern at the level of local communities. In view of the fact that the proposed Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law eliminates the shortcomings of the existing regulation in the area of energy infrastructure construction, in the field of energy licensing, in the field of efficient energy use, in the field of the use of renewable resources, in the area of ensuring secure energy supply and in addressing certain shortcomings in the functioning of the electricity market, we will support the Proposal for a Law on Energy Amendments and Supplements in the Slovenian National Party. It is true that if a person went into a thorough analysis and review of this law, the content of which would be, if we had a little more time, and we would go deeper, which we could or should change. That is how I think Members themselves know that there has been a lot of talk about Article 15, which is also evident in the amendments. There was also some talk on the 20th Article of the supplementary proposal, which I personally believe still needs to be discussed, namely an article on increasing the prescribed safety distances for long-distance settlements. Indeed, the impact of the cables on people living around them is that it has a certain impact on their health and that, of course, it is also true that our national interest is primarily the health and safety of the Slovenians and Slovenes. However, we must be so honest that we must say that our great national interest is also sufficient energy supply and also sufficient energy self-sustainment, so that the content of Article 20 is a very weighty and strong professional area, which, according to the Slovenian National Party, would be better studied and more time taken for it. Otherwise, when the law comes into force, we will also see the consequences of these doubts. The Slovenian national party does not therefore oppose and support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Energy Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which has been tabled 3. 3. 2010 I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups: SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to this Article. I'm opening an application for discussion. Mr. Zanoškar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. It seems very important to me that the correction has reached the 36th Article of the Basic Law and the 15th Amendment tabled by the coalition parties. Of course, we can believe that local communities in Slovenia, in our country, can also be one of the important energy savers and intelligent energy management. Thus, it seems to me that the amendment to Article 15 is very good, since it concerns the local community in particular, those who do not have a manufactured energy concept and do not have a public service for the distribution of either thermal energy or the distribution of natural gas. In such cases, it is a matter of promoting the exploitation of renewable resources and, as we know, our country is also making substantial, spending on such interventions this year. It also seems important to me that in all those local communities, a municipality where there is no instrument on energy savings or on new energy or spatial plans should be envisaged. More importantly, it does not have a retroactive order, so that after the adoption of this order the municipalities should change the existing spatial plans, but only for those who are made new. Finally, it is important that we also know that some local communities sometimes do not follow all the legal provisions in this area; it is important that, even for those who do not follow this, the Ministry is given the opportunity specifically to regulate these matters by means of a directive in a manner consistent with our legal acts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you. In connection with the local energy concept, I would like to draw attention only to the part which is also included in the local energy concept, which refers to boilers in common essential property, in accordance with Article 23 of the Housing Law. Is it possible to understand - this also refers to Article 14, which is not amended - that these joint boilers also become, on the basis of Article 23 of the Housing Law, which has power over 1 megawatt hour, an economic public service. So far, this management has not been carried out as an economic public service. Under this law, however, it can be understood that boilers, which are defined as such in common essential property, would become an economic public service. Here is one question of how to write this also in the local energy concept, that it would not be misunderstood or misunderstood if there could be any explanation of what the status of these joints will be, boilers with a power greater than one megawatt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you. We are still talking about Article 15 and the amendment to this article in the review, which was held on 3. 3. 2010 I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. [[No, no, ……]] Do you want to? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Chairman. First, I would like to thank you for supporting this law, but I would like to answer a few questions. As regards the preparation of a national action plan to promote renewable energy sources, here I can inform the honourable assembly that the preparation of the action plan is ongoing. This is certainly a demanding document. For most areas we already have proposals well prepared, in the area of transport, which is quite difficult, as far as this area is concerned, solutions are not yet known but are being prepared. The Action Plan to promote renewable energy will be an integral part of the national energy programme, which is expected to be put into public consultation in April. So there is no dilemma here, there will also be an opportunity to discuss this action plan, and I believe that, through public debate, we will also come up with optimal solutions in promoting the use of renewable energy sources, which will certainly be one of the important tasks of our ministry and government in the coming period. As regards the hydropower projects at the bottom of the Sava, Member Vizjak is very well aware of the problem. He also knows why this project does not actually run as everyone would like. At this point, I would not even discuss this, but I would just like to stress that at our ministry and within the government, we are trying to get these projects to work as quickly as possible. As far as the distance from settlements is concerned, I would like to give an answer to Mr Barovic. These amendments to the law do not regulate this area. The distance from settlements is already defined in the previous energy law. Of course, these provisions remain, nothing has been changed. At this point, I would say that we have the strictest arrangement in the European Union. These shifts are said to be the largest since the current energy law. Of course, this is a question that needs to be taken into account and continued to be supported from the point of view of the health of the people living along the lines. As regards the question raised by the Member, Mr Webra, I ask the President if the expert director, Mr Janez Kopač, can give an explanation. He can't give an explanation? [[No, no, ……]] [[...]] [[Ad in the background.]] [[...]] However, I do have another request for a chair if we could also have a third reading of this law at this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you. That'll be possible. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the conclusion of the 25th item of the agenda or at the latest at 21.10. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. POINT OF THE DAY'S LINE - REVALATION OF THE ACT ON THE DEFINITIONS OF PARALMENTING INVESTIGATION FOR FINDING AND ASSESSMENT OF THE REAL STATE IN RELATING TO THE ESTABLISHMENT OF EXECUTIONS, THE DEPARTMENT AND FINANCING OF THE FREE WEEKS OF SLOVENISH WEEKS AND THE EXCRESSION OF THE GOVERNMENT OF THE STATE'S PURPOSE, THAT THEY WERE PURPOSED TO IMPLICATE THE GOVERNMENTS IN THE COURSE OF THE COURT'S POLITICAL STRATEGATEGIES FOR THE STATE, THAT THE GRAVE FOR THEM PREVIOUSLY PRESCRIMINOUSLY A COMPANCY OF THE POLITICAL FINANCIAL FINATION. On the basis of Article 93 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a group of 45 Members and Members submitted a request for a parliamentary inquiry to the National Assembly, signed by Melito Župevc. I give the floor to the representative of the candidates Tade Slapnik for further explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Speakers, a group of 45 members from SD, Zares, LDS and DeSUS, propose that the National Assembly order a parliamentary inquiry to determine and assess the actual situation regarding the creation of publishers, the issue and financing of free newspapers The Slovenian Week and Eskpres. The investigation is proposed because of the suspicion that the Freeman was issued with the aim of influencing the election of Members to the National Assembly in 2008 for the benefit of the political parties of the then ruling coalition and because of the suspicion that the issue of restricted baton was a pre-election campaign or illicit financing of political parties. We expect from the parliamentary investigation that it will enable the National Assembly to decide on the political responsibility of individual public function holders due to the suspicion that individual public function holders were involved in the creation, operation and issuance of issuers, that individual public function holders involved in the issuance of free-of-charges were involved in the alleged infringement of existing media, electoral campaigns and political parties, and that individual public function holders were involved in financing free of charge, in order to abuse their political influence to cooperate with issuers, with economic companies in which the State has a direct or indirect share of more than 25% of the capital, and companies in which these companies have a majority share, that is, commercial companies in direct or indirect dominant state ownership with issuers of free-of-chargers. We request a parliamentary investigation order with a view to determining and assessing the actual situation with regard to the establishment of issuers, the issuance and financing of free weeks of the Slovenian Week and Express. We are convinced that it is necessary to determine who and how media and electoral legislation has been played before and before the last elections, who has influenced their funding and extradition, and who has taken advantage of their political influence. We are convinced that it has not been a coincidence that the two free men who discriminated against political opponents, with a total of very high loads of over 700,000 copies, appeared in the media field just in the pre-election period in 2008. Therefore, in the parliamentary investigation, we would like to determine whether, in the case of freeholders, it was a premeditated political propaganda and disqualification, allegedly supported by funds from companies in direct or direct state ownership. In accordance with the Media Act, the activities of these media should be based on freedom of expression and on the free movement of information and the openness of the media for different opinions, beliefs and content. In the case of both freemen, it is suspected that the freeman was, in fact, merely pre-selective propaganda and not media, that the legislation in force was in breach of or faked and that the competent state authorities allowed it or did not act in accordance with their competences. The report in the above-mentioned free of charge was solely for the benefit of the then ruling coalition, especially the largest government SDS party. However, the publishers of both newspapers are or are still associated with individual public function holders within the 2004-2008 mandate, with the SDS political party and with individuals from that party. Both freemen were also characterised by the signature of unknown authors, most likely with pseudonyms, and so far it has not been revealed whether they were journalists at all. The authors, who were hiding behind pseudonyms for evading responsibility, were relentlessly attacking and often accusing people on a political side that they did not agree with without tangible evidence. However, the victims were not allowed to defend themselves against the charges. Such an action is unethical and unprofessional and, as such practice, has also assessed the press honorary judgment, which also concluded that there was plagiarism between the Slovenian Week, Express and the weekly Democracy, as all the content or contributions to it were mutually coordinated. Despite discounts on the distribution and advertising of companies in direct or indirect, dominant state ownership, Progresia and Zame-tek, which issued the freebie, ended with a loss in 2008. Progress has also generated very low incomes, or several times more expenditure than revenue, after reporting to the media. The same applies to the issuer of Express. The relevant data show that there is a suspicion that the issuers could not have issued both free of charge from their own assets or assets. All of this leads to the assumption that the issuers have also obtained the necessary funds for the issuance of free weeks by other business entities. In order to prevent corruption, the Progresia and Zame-tek companies have identified the possibility of suspecting criminal services and tax evasion, since those funds were far from sufficient to cover the basic costs of issuing free-of-chargers. The Commission has waived the matter to the State Prosecutor's Office, the Police, the Tax Office and the Anti-Money Laundering Office. In this case, there is a suspicion that there could be a violation of the rules and regulations in force in the field of media, electoral campaigns and political parties, since during the electoral campaign political parties must raise money for the electoral campaign in a special transaction account from which they must pay all the costs of the electoral campaign. The free-of-charges were issued in particular for their issue to established companies, which are now deleted from the Registry of Justice and are to be financed by companies in direct or direct predominant ownership of the State. In doing so, it should be pointed out that the Political Parties Act clearly and clearly prohibits the financing of political parties by companies in which a state or a self-government local community has more than 25% of its share in capital and companies in which these companies have a majority share. In order to clarify and clarify all the facts and circumstances and assess the actual situation of the establishment of issuers, the issue and the financing of free-of-chargers, the applicants propose an investigation. To identify whose interests and what interests have led to the issue of the freeman being issued and to determine the degree of possible involvement of individual public function holders in the establishment of the publication, issuance and financing of free of chargeers and to assess their political impact. Furthermore, to identify links between individual public function holders and persons involved in the creation of issuers in the issuance and financing of free-of-charge issuers in addition to issuers. To determine whether there are political reasons why the representatives of the Republic of Slovenia, as the owner of the supervisory authorities, companies, in direct or indirect majority state ownership, have or are still operating in the supervisory authorities to allow cooperation with the issuers of free of charge or should act in accordance with their powers, since there is doubt that the issuer of free of charge has not acquired sufficient resources to issue both free agents. To determine whether the authorities of companies, directly or indirectly, were influenced by State ownership, which cooperated with the issuers of free of charge, by individual public function holders or whether they misused their political influence to approve cooperation. Finally, to determine whether and why individual public function holders should allow for an alleged infringement to determine the applicable legislation in the field of media, electoral campaign and political parties, or the alleged abandonment of official conduct, since there is a suspicion that the freeman was issued to influence the election of members of the National Assembly in 2008, in favour of the political parties of the then ruling coalition, or whether it is suspected that it is their covert campaign and the financing of political parties. We propose that the parliamentary investigation focus on the time period since the establishment of the issuers of both free of charge, companies Zame-tek d.o.o. and Progression d.o.o. and the first edition of the Slovenian weekly and Express free of charge and until the end of the issue or the date on which the companies or issuers of both free of charge were deleted from the Registry of Justice. The investigation should cover: the establishment of issuers of both free-of-charges, Zametek and Progresia companies, the issuance of free-of-charges and the participation of companies in direct or indirect state ownership with the issuer and the management and non-regulation of the competent national authorities, the establishment and issuance of both freeholders for the enforcement of existing media and electoral and political parties legislation. From the events and conclusions of the parliamentary inquiry to determine and assess the actual situation with regard to the creation of publishers, the issuance and financing of free newspapers, the Slovenian weekly and Express are also expected to be the basis for amending existing legislation in the field of media, electoral campaigns and political parties, in particular to avoid any further violations, manipulation and abuse of existing legislation, with a view to organising and financing hidden political propaganda and political parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u111	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bojan Kontic will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This time, too, in the decision-making process for the commission of inquiry, we have faced arguments in the Group of Social Democrats for and against our serious reservation to the establishment of investigative commissions at a time when the Group of Members forms part of the government coalition. Many times, however, government parliamentary groups have been told that the coalition has different tools to achieve the objective of determining the responsibility of individuals or groups in a particular case. At the same time, it is essential to add that by establishing an investigative commission, we are following the objective of establishing political responsibility. And when we talk about the political responsibility and the reasons that led MEPs and members of the Social Democrats to co-sign this request, it is right to stress that our conclusion is that it is necessary to determine what is the right background behind the Slovenian weekly and Express, that it is right to find out who has played and how before and before the last elections, both media and electoral legislation, that it is right to find out who has influenced funding and extradition and who and how has taken advantage of its political influence in this case. It is right to determine what is involved in the financing of companies directly or indirectly owned by the State and in the participation of these companies in these two free-of-charge companies. Finally, it is right, as I have already said, to determine the possible political responsibility of the holders of public functions in this story. In this investigation, the two free-of-charge subjects, which have fallen into our mailboxes for some time before the national elections, could briefly be referred to as the "coalic trumpet" or the means to preserve power. Otherwise, I doubt the readers and readers of these weeks missed it. However, someone is responsible for this work. At this time and in this House, we are particularly interested in political responsibility. Criminal responsibility will be determined by the competent authorities if they so decide. We will therefore find political responsibility. It would be very naive to think that the owners decided to do this without the right reason or without the right reason. This is certainly not to be believed by those masters who daily draw networks of different connections and stop there at all times, I stress, always on the spot when they should be favoured by them, if not by themselves. It is suspected that individual public function holders were involved in the creation, operation and issuance of issuers. It would also be very naive to expect them to advertise in these free-of-charge companies where the state has a direct or indirect share of more than 25% of the capital and the companies in which these companies have a majority share without any interest being present here. And that interest was to maintain power at all costs. In this case, it was therefore a suspicion of the hidden financing of the political campaign, as I said, in order to maintain the government coalition at all costs. Also with free people who are free of charge only for us, readers and readers, otherwise well-paid and objectively targeted. And if the networking masters were to ask for a schematic representation of connection, we could reach both the interest and thus the objective that led those involved, as well as the sources of funding themselves. It is perfectly logical that such a transparent cheerleading has not been launched by any already established company. They have set up companies that have already been deleted from the Court Registry. In doing so, it should be noted that the law on political parties prohibits the financing of political parties by companies in which a state or a self-government community has more than 25% of its share in capital. The answer will certainly be that these companies did not finance political parties. That's right. However, it was financed by a printed medium, which agitably cheered for a certain political option. The essence of two freemen, the Slovenian Week and Express, of course can be combined in some points. It was political discredit, it was mysterious botts, it was mysterious financiers, it was also or mainly mysterious writers, it was mysterious advertisers, it was the abuse of media and electoral legislation, it was the abuse of ethical criteria of the public word, and what is most important to us in this space was the abuse of political influence. Both freemen were characterised by the signature of unknown authors, most likely with pseudonyms, under contributions. So far, it has not been revealed whether it was journalists at all, or whether representatives of political parties were hiding behind a number of names. The authors, who were hiding behind the pseudonyms for evading responsibility, were relentlessly attacking and often accusing people on a political side without tangible evidence, with which they did not agree, and the victims were not allowed to defend themselves against the charges. The Journalist Honorary Court considered such acts to be unethical and unprofessional practices. We have already heard this in the introductory explanation, complementing the proposal for a parliamentary inquiry and also in writing or in explanation, in writing to justify this requirement for a parliamentary inquiry. Members and Members of the Social Democrats have signed a request for a parliamentary inquiry. We are confident that the Commission will be successful and will find political responsibility. Last but not least, dear colleagues and colleagues, this may also contribute to the consideration of the amendment of legislation which will make this derogation impossible in all subsequent elections in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr Alexander Zorn will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u114	Your Honor! I'm going to add some of my own words to those words. Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree with you. Freemen are a deviation of Slovenian journalism, a rejection of the actions of newspaper publishers who do not even appreciate their work so much as to charge it. Therefore, their products are as they are. And I fully agree with you that they need to be subjected to a criminal investigation, so that we can restore the reputation of professional, judicial, super-stranger-driven and morally high Slovenian journalism and publishing, which does not serve any ideology, to any policy and, in particular, to no party, except any government. That's why we're going to support your investigation. And to ensure that you do not run out of subjects because of your limited choice of investigative press disgrace, I am giving you an excellent example of such a questionable, biased, client-servicing and even agitpropo list, which is, of course, free of charge and is without shame called Good Morning. His printed substance is not only a yellow pale of professional quality, but in its substantive bruises it is completely in the shadow of government policy. Consider some of his addresses, for example: "The train will be a means of transport for the next century." A particularly lucid interview between the Vice-President of the SD Party and the Minister of Transport, as already indicated by the address which provides him with a full-time job for the next decade. "The new nuclear power plant won't be here for long," address. An interview with Mr Janez Kopač, which gives us insight into why the Government intends to pollute the air over Slovenia so much that it will almost darken and then we will urgently need its electricity to shine. Interesting. The title, "Blocking Media Sharing," which gives us convincing evidence that the Penal Code, as we have already heard today, still allows net conscience journalists not to offend state officials, because they can even be punished, necessarily change. Because this anomaly is a consequence of the media being allowed to share politically in blockwork again, which we have already overcome in the past. And last time, the title "In every man there is something different sex," where in an interview a well-known customer psychiatrist modern and post-Freud's announcement of a new era of civilization, in which the couple will no longer be Blocked, not to say politically, divided into men and women, but will be completely mixed. And when animals are allowed free choice of sex partner, if I understand correctly because it is science. And that's not all. In addition, it contains comprehensive ads from large companies that cannot be avoided because they are Siol, Mobil, and Mail from some NKB bank where the country has a significant share, which I think is right, because state-owned companies have to support the right direction. This is, after all, exceeding the media block division and achieving stable unity. But there's a strange question. The owner of the freeman is a company that is at home in neighbouring Austria, which we know is politically civilized and democratic, and here he has a colonialist week that strongly supports the non-blocking distribution of Slovenian media, and also publishes advertisements by companies of foreign competing countries at a lower level of democracy, from which he does not deserve any money, because he shares his famous newspaper for free, unless he invests in the artistic purposes of simplifying Slovenian controversial policies. But it's a little weird. This Austrian interest in an advanced block of Slovenian politics. It will probably be necessary to understand this kind of charitative business interest differently than we are used to, and we will also have to be happy to have a foreign free paper on our media market, which would otherwise cost us taxpayers too much. It is therefore sacrificed by a more advanced neighbouring country, which strongly supports the right, healthy direction of our policy and tries to influence this in many Slovenian homes. And it's only in the comfort of civilization if business and earners can't be too much. That's why we should call it this week, because it's politically and capitally clean and naked in front of us, and it doesn't hide anything ugly, calling it Bezhlaničnik. In any case, however, he will have to be investigated, but some things are unusual with him, so we will be committed to joining him among your few investigators, a respected future commission of inquiry. But we're moving on. There is another phenomenon on the Slovenian media scene that advocates the abolition of the bloc's media policy, the STA, the Slovenian Press Agency. This is the SDS client's website address for us from the highest position of its Director. Certainly not, because we would ask him to do so, but just so free and he teaches us the art of defending ourselves against political opponents who are recklessly divided into two blocks, it is said to be against unnecessary opposition to the constitutional charge and against the attacks of the Bulmastifs. Although he is employed in a company that is a mercenary and we credit him for his fair purposes, we all are, because it is a government-established state agency sworn for objectivity by overseas, supra-coalcial and professional integrity. Thus, if he is paid for such work, it means that he is a freeman at a free time when he devotes himself to a free humanitarian policy. In doing so, he is so successful that we invite the Government to place him as a freeman, where he can develop immediately, to all of us in prosperity and peace. Our client proposal is that, too, your respected investigative commission should be classified as its investigators, as it is entirely in line with the definition of a political freeman. Thus, the honourable applicants of the Commission of Inquiry and such is the proposal of our Group of Members. We welcome the establishment of an investigative commission, and for your sake we propose more work and more investigators. This should be all free of charge, with all its political orientations and phobias, such as this certainly Good morning, and perhaps due to the order of the Journal, as well as the side-by-side free work of the STA, the Slovenian Press Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr Tadej Slapnik will move the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you so much for saying that. Free newspapers The Slovenian weekly and Express both appeared in the year of the elections and were clearly reported in favour of the current authorities and in particular in favour of the SDS. At the same time, they met with the then opposition parties, with the exception of the Slovenian National Party. It was also evident from both freemen that their publishers made a strong effort to cover up their authors, their founders and, above all, how their funding was. Both newspapers were published in extremely high collections, the Express in 340 thousand copies, mostly in urban environments, and the Slovenian weekly in 375 thousand copies in rural areas. During the period when they went out at the same time, this was in the last two months before the elections, they reached as many as 715 thousand homes in Slovenia. In public it is known that the Slovenian weekly was issued by Progresija d.o.o., owned by Andrej Lasbaher, former director of SDS weekly Democracy. Andrej Lasbaher then led the 25th Agency, which also organised the election campaign for Gregor Pivc, SDS candidate at the last mayoral elections in Maribor and the current member of the SDS Executive Board. The link between SDS and Zame-tek, which was issued by the free agent Express, is slightly more windy, but so much more important. In July 2009, Zame-tek set up a company called Nova firma, which is involved in the establishment of companies, and its director became Robert Teršek. The editor-in-chief of the free newspaper Express, which was first published on 30 July 2009, became Barbara Meaning. The same Barbara sense, which was also included in the media coverage at the time as editor of the Zekaj.si portal. This portal is owned by Unimedis, whose co-founder and director is Jernej Strnad, a member of the SDS, the son of SDS Chief Secretary Dusan Strnad. Unimedis is also associated with both the issue of the newspaper Express and the issue of the Slovenian weekly, as it also advertised. In the Slovenian Week, Jernej Strnada, a member of the SDS and the son of the Chief Secretary of the SDS after gross advertising was also the largest individual advertiser. Some estimates suggest that €70 000 will be devoted to advertising, with a turnover of around €100,000 in 2008 of the company's total revenue. Dusan Strnad, Chief Secretary of the SDS Party responsible for the financial operations of the party, is the closest associate of SDS Chairman Janez Janša. The Secretariat of the party running it is recorded on the website of that party that it carries out all the activities necessary to carry out the activities of the party in order to ensure the coordinated functioning of all bodies, to take care of the implementation of the SDS's difficult activities, to participate in the preparations for the elections and to take care of better information. Dusan Strnad is not only the right hand of the president of Janez Janša, but also works closely with former ministers on the SDS executive committee: Dragutin Matei, Zofija Mazej Kukovič, Žig Turk, Vasko Simoniti, Milan Zver and also with Members: Jožet Tank, Zvonk Černač, Branko Grims, Alenko Jeraj and former Maribor mayoral candidate Gregor Pivac. In addition to the fact that SDS members and related persons have cooperated with free publishers, there are also indications and suspicions that they should also participate in the preparation of their content. Allow me to introduce one of them and to remind you of the first television competition on TV Slovenia, Janša-Pahor, before the parliamentary elections on Wednesday, 20 August 2009. The debate on media freedom in Slovenia was then concluded by Janez Janša with the sentence: "The old Italian proverb says that mafia newspapers will never write about the mafia." On the same day, on Wednesday, August 20th, the fourth issue of Express magazine was published, in which the editorial entitled "Berlusconie's Journalists" was written by author Nika Albrecht and concluded with the words: "It is clear in Mafia newspapers that no one can write against the Mafia." An indistinguishable listener or reader would conclude that John Janša used the sentence he read that day in the paper. As we know, this was not the case, since the television confrontation was recorded the day before the newspaper came out, which is Tuesday, August 19. Also in the Journal of Work were written about the meeting of the director of Progresia, d.o.o., who published the Slovenian Week, Andrej Lasbacher, Method Verlec, the editor-in-chief of SDS's weekly Democracy, Alenka Pavlin, then Head of STA, Borut Petek and Janez Janša, with a view to negotiating the content of freemen for next week. Prior to the elections, then SDS Minister Gregor Virant defended the issue of these freemen by saying that they could not be considered as part of an election campaign, since they were not political advertising content and other forms of political propaganda designed to influence the decision-making of electorates and voters in the elections that would be defined in the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act. He also added that the restriction of free-of-charges could even affect the constitutional right to freedom of expression in the democratic society, since under the conditions laid down by the Media Law, a media publisher can be a legal person and media broadcasting under it is also a right to a free economic initiative. Therefore, as Minister, Gregor Virant defended the publishers of the Free Council and did not act as Minister. In the Group of Members, we really expect the Commission of Inquiry to answer the question as to where the companies issuing free-of-charge companies have received funding for this activity. According to publicly known information, the company in direct or direct state ownership is called Mobiltel, Insurance Office Triglav, NKBM, Petrol, Banka Celje, Telekom, Insurance Office Maribor, Zasvarovnica Sava and others, as part of the advertisements in both freeholders, spent several hundred thousand euros. Under the current legislation, companies in which the country is more than 25% owned must not finance the costs of electoral campaigns with a single cent. Is it a coincidence that direct or direct state-owned companies in which the Government, through representatives of the supervisory boards, could influence their business, advertised in two free agents who annually magnified its work and the achievements of its ministers? In the public, the estimated value of the issue and postal distribution of both free-of-chargers is around EUR 2 million. The funds provided by advertisers are intended to cover a poor quarter of all distribution costs. Therefore, in addition to the questions raised, the Commission of Inquiry will also have to answer the question of where the remaining funds for issuers amount to a good million and a half euros. In the Group of Members, we really expect the Commission of Inquiry to investigate the extent to which other companies operating with the country are linked to the financing of the issue of free-of-charges and its own companies. Most importantly, the Commission of Inquiry will investigate the possible involvement of public function holders in this. In a democratic society, it is extremely important that the electoral competition is fair and that, under comparable conditions, representatives of different political views have the opportunity to participate. Citizens and citizens expect political propaganda from candidates and their clients and from the media and their journalists to report impartially and to present political programmes and candidates as part of the electoral campaign. Free people are not really free because they are not obtained by readers without payment. This claim was substantiated by Sandra Bashič Hrvatin, quote: "The paper on which they are printed has its price. Journalists and journalists who create content are paid for their work. Someone was also paid to deliver them to our mailboxes. All of this is paid by advertisers in exchange for being taken into their hands by as many people as possible. When you read them in your spare time, you work for advertisers. And the pay is your time and attention. In this information supermarket you get everything from politics and nutrition to personal hygiene." End of quote. In order for citizens and citizens to know how much they have actually paid for free people who are never really free, we will really support the proposal for a parliamentary inquiry in the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Joško Godec will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. The position of the DeSUS Group on the act on the determination of the parliamentary investigation of the Slovenian weekly and Express free of charge. We are also Members of the DeSUS Group. Why? It is simple that, and still in public, there have been too many suspicions and doubts about the financing of these free people and the possible abuse of political influence in the business of companies in the direct or direct state of all of this by the previous ruling coalition. This is the main reason why we also agree in our parliamentary group to set up an investigative commission to determine who is behind both freemen, who have played media and electoral legislation before the elections and whether any of the former ruling entities have used their influence to finance them. All are aware that a great deal of attention has been drawn to the public, the media and the politicians before the elections by the unexplained resources and the financing of both free agents. The question that remains open and unexplained today is where the issuers received money to finance the freeholders with such a high load of 250 000 copies, because it was not about funding over, for example, ads, because the latter did not even detect them in these freebies. The Anti-Corruption Commission has also identified the possibility of several offences in connection with the operations of several public services with Progresia and Zame-tek, both of which had been issued by free of charge. Within these state-owned companies are mentioned Postal Bank Slovenia, Insurance Office Maribor, Mobil, Zasinovalnica Sava and Posta Slovenije, which also made this distribution. An additional reason for suspicion is the fact that both freemen appeared just before the last parliamentary elections, one January 2008 and the other only eight weeks before the elections, and immediately after the elections, they also went out, and the fact that reporting in both media was purely for the sake of the then ruling coalition is not negligible. Members of the DeSUS are aware that this is already the sixth parliamentary inquiry to establish the suspicion of the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in this story. In doing so, we hope and expect that the Commission of Inquiry will not act as a toothless tiger without final conclusions, but rather that its functioning will result in the direction of established and reasoned decisions, so it is also possible to file criminal reports if this proves justified on the basis of evidence. Members of the DeSUS agree with the introduction of a parliamentary inquiry into the controversial financing of the two free agents. We hope, however, that the matter will be concluded and that the final conclusions will also be adopted, on the basis of which a certain procedure of other bodies can be followed, provided that this is proved to be justified and evident.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr Victory Jelinčič or Mr Györek Miran, please, please, present the views of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present our position and opinion on the proposed act to set up a commission on behalf of the Slovenian National Party as well. I am pleased that some Members have finally woken up and are proposing the adoption of acts authorising a parliamentary inquiry to determine and assess a situation in fact. So to set up a parliamentary commission again, because the actual situation is really devastating. For a few days, we have not set up any commission that will certainly bear fruit and contribute effectively to the resolution of the economic, political, social and, as we have seen recently, the moral crises prevailing in our society. In the present case, I don't think he's going to hold an old proverb that says that if you don't want to solve a particular issue or clear it up, you have to set up a committee or committee. I am confident that this commission will expose the criminals, the non-conspiracy, the criminals who helped these two freemen come to power. Because there are indeed indications, as the proposal states, that these two free-of-charges were issued in order to influence the 2008 national elections and were obviously very successful. The parties of the current ruling coalition have won. I believe that they have contributed effectively to the electoral outcome. We believe in the Slovenian National Party that the electoral result without these two freemen would be completely different. So obviously it is the manipulation of Slovenian elections and voters, and it is imperative to establish the actual situation, and in the event of proven manipulation, to reverse the results of the 2008 national elections, to punish traitors, journalists, possibly even readers, because, finally, readers are also guilty of such a crime, because without readers, free-of-chargers would certainly not come out and could not cause such a crime and manipulation of electorates and voters. We are also giving consideration to the Commission's proposal for acts establishing a commission to include in the scope of the Commission's activities an investigation into how much these two freemen are hiding behind such a devastating economic situation in our country of Slovenia. They probably also had an impact on the rise in unemployment. Without them, there would probably be 100,000 Slovenes and Slovenians without a job or a job. We are convinced that pensioners would have retired a long time ago, at least thousands of euros. And that's not all. Even all the other troubles that make us all Slovenes, I'm sure it wouldn't be. There'd be no corruption, no clienteleism, I don't think there'd be any Bulmastiffs. In order to understand each other, in the Slovenian National Party we certainly support the investigation of the background, origin, financing and issuance of such "shond" literature or clocks, but we propose that the investigation be extended to all types of free-of-chargers. Even the ones that are still coming out. For what is possible is that others are not completely clean. We should not neglect all other information materials, pamphlets, brochures, leaflets and leaflets. But maybe they also affect the election results, you never know. We're Slovenians with a tendency to be free of charge. As we know, the first came out in 2002. That was a good morning. Around this there are controversy, the Journal claims that it was earlier owned by this firstborn Journal. Some say, however, that it began to work in 2003, and they have achieved a great deal, out of 200,000, which many officers may envy. Later these two freebies were joined by others, City magazine, Golovec Avenue, Maribor pulse, Time, Total Week and so on, not to mention. So, Slovenians like freebies and we don't take it. Don't criminalize them now because it wouldn't be fair. But the investigation might also be useful to extend to other forms of promotion of political parties, their political programmes, to 100,000 posters, flyers, billboards, TV shows, radio shows, 100,000 free goggles, not to mention hectolitres of free wine and beer. All of this has affected the results of the national elections. And I think we could still list what affected the results of the elections. Why now limit it to just two little freebies, who, by the way, have failed. Let's get on with this work thoroughly. Let us explore the background of the influences on national elections, on the financing of these advertising materials, and then I am sure that the next elections will be completely different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u121	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is nice and pleasant to smile in Parliament and to think of the best of all. Proposal for a position. In our Group of Liberal Democrats, we have to say the following. Certainly the Slovenian Week and Express were no doubt phantom media. We don't know who financed them or who the editors and writers were. It would be fair to know this, because most of the policy in Slovenia is controlled by anonyms, such as those and others. There is nothing wrong with wanting to say anything that stands and holds, and it says it frankly, publicly, it can also be written and signed. The purpose of the parliamentary inquiry is to reveal all these secrets of their political propaganda, more than the obvious reason why they were created. At the Liberal Democratic Club of Slovenia, we believe that it is necessary to investigate who the financiers of these freemen were and who were also the authors of the texts, because the Anti-Corruption Commission has already given an opinion that the advertisements published in them could not cover the costs of publishing themselves. This shows and confirms that there were hidden resources. It is also necessary to investigate who were editors and journalists or who were writers for free because the press judgment clearly revealed that there are no signed writers in these free-of-charge books. There are indications, however, that the writers were in these freemen who were hiding behind non-existent names, real-life editors, journalists and editors. The latter in the pre-election period of 2008 wrote texts with one purpose: to discredit political opponents, these and them, ours or yours. The issues must also be disclosed in order to prevent any future manipulation of media and other legislation that has occurred in the case of these two free-of-charges. The existence of these free-for-all means the end of media freedom and autonomy and certainly a serious indirect threat to media autonomy and democracy. It is therefore necessary to insist that all legal and political means should be used to investigate who stands or stands behind these freemen. We will support this investigative commission in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u124	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I've said several times in recent years that I've been working as a journalist and editor for over 20 years because this is connected to what I'm talking about. I am talking about the proposal to set up a parliamentary commission of inquiry for the issue of free people, not all of them free of charge, as we have heard today in the introduction of some of the debaters. Our customers, the parties to the coalition, are by no means disturbed by free-of-charge journalists who come under normal media legislation, which allows them to be regulated by responsible editors, who are journalists who have a certificate to do so. No, but we're disturbed by the pamphlets that come out of the paper, the print that some people call the paper. Let's look at the facts. The first issue of the so-called Express newspaper was released in July 2008. The citizens we received in the journals this, in the notes, "magazine" until 17 September, was the election on 21 September. And then this paper went away. The free weekly was issued by Zametek from Radeč. At the registered address in Radeč, there was neither the spirit nor the sound of what kind of tablet of this newspaper. I believe that if we go to other places today after Ljubljana, we don't have to go to other places, see where the headquarters of Del, the diary, the Journal, Good Morning, we will easily find these newspapers because they are registered because they have plates because they are in the phone book. And who distributed this paper? The Post Office of Slovenia. The Post Office of Slovenia, which was just before the elections, had special plastic bases with the SDS sign on its windows when you came to the window. Neutral magazines, neutral mail. Of course, that's not all costs. It is quite clear that newspapers need to be printed, that they have to be paid by those who write them, and after some calculations like me as a long-standing journalist, and also by colleagues who are still publishing newspapers today, I would say that one number of each such free week has cost, with all the costs, of course, about 100,000 euros. 100,000 euros is one small apartment in Ljubljana, on the coast, for example. And that's a tiny bit for someone who's, like, the CEO of Express, the archer and the gym teacher at primary school. He must have recovered well on some occasion. Let's see who wrote these papers. The responsible editor, as we have already heard today, was Ms Barbara Sensel, a member of the BBT teenage group. She's probably very qualified to be the responsible editor of a newspaper. Among the authors of the Slovenian Week and others we can find the names: Vid Videc, Anej Jalen, already mentioned today Nina Albrecht. This is the Nina Albrecht who wrote the day before Janez Janša repeated this on state television, "an old Italian proverb says that mafia newspapers will never write about the Mafia, and we are very close." In short, these mafia deals took place during the period when all the other parties were preparing for elections in accordance with electoral legislation. Therefore, it is necessary to have this commission to explore where the money for such matters is from, because we have all been financed according to legislation, and where the SDS also have money to publish, say, their advertisements in the Slovenian Week. Because we've just heard that in other freebies there are ads from companies. Yeah, normally, that's how they finance themselves, and that's how they come out. As for concerns about the work of the current State. You know, Mrs Alenka Pavlin, former director of the Information Office or, as we call it today, the Communications Office, helped to edit the Express in front of witnesses. That's neutral, and that's objective journalism. Well, the famous authors that I mentioned before, and some of the "Vidicators" and the "Jalens", and I don't know what else, published articles where they were so clumsy, they were so poorly written, they were so non-newly educated that, for the first time, they were hard to read, so they also stopped coming out, because not only did they run out of money, but no one was reading them, but they didn't even know. Because, colleagues and colleagues, in both newspapers, both in Express and in the Slovenian Week, almost identical articles appeared. If you want to publish an article as a journalist, some contribution in another newspaper, you'll try to change it a little. As a result, they also found themselves in an honorary press court. I would like to read only one piece of the conclusion of this judgment, which says: "The Journalist Honorary Judgment has found that parts of the texts in the Slovenian Week and Express are very similar, sometimes almost identical, with perhaps the reverse order of words in sentences. The following parts of the text often match. The Press Honorary Court finds that the article in the Slovenian Week, published on 12 September 2008, is based on that in the Express on 10 September 2008, that is to say two days earlier. The Press Honorary Judgement shall assess the text in the Slovenian Week as plagiarism, which shall not be permitted under Article 9 of the Code. At the invitation of Jernej Novak, who was signed under the contribution, the Journalist Honorary Court received only the reply of responsible editor Andrej Lasbaher, on the basis of which it concludes that the signature of Jernej Novak is under the above-mentioned pseudonym contribution." And so on. You could say it; it's a shame for Slovenian journalism. Well, it's a ton. Since this is not journalism, it is political propaganda that has worked out media legislation to issue its pamphlets under the company's newspaper. In the end, that's all I'd say. We can discuss this long and wide, and in the coming months, I am sure we will. It's a shame to waste money, fellow SDS, for such primitives and stupidities as you've afforded before the elections, because you've seen that nothing has helped you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u125	Mr. Aloise Potočnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you. Your Honor! Of course, no judgment can be delivered on the subject at this time. For starters, there is a suspicion to be investigated and therefore a parliamentary investigation. There's only so much on the case. This is how I give the debate without pointing my finger and quite generally. Political freeholders, because of their influence on elections to which public, state and unknown money would be used in excess of the rules, are inconvenient - at any time, at any time, for any benefit, for any party. Such work, in my view, must never be without reflection on the dumping ground of history. If we do not remember history, even in its most unpleasant and mysterious moments, it works itself forward and we learn nothing from it. And then those who usually had nothing to do with this work and events pay the high price of those and those who hope for everything. No embarrassment, no restraints. And the truth, as you well know, is the first and not the last victim. It is a special, I think, situation of the spirit that is leaking when the social power of only individual groups is being blown away by disproportionately large political power. And in this delicate imbalance, conditions are created that sway democracy to still fall from its courses. Our duty is not silence! The story ahead of us has come out of politics and is returning to politics. Political freemen are thus seemingly a soft area, always run with a hard hand - at all times and at all times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u127	Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The large parties, customers who controlled capital and the media, benefited mainly from the elections, free of charge and large advertisements. Such luxury could not be afforded by the Slovenian National Party. Even if they had the option, they would not have committed such violence against the population. Other customers who did not have freebies also used a comparable amount of money for advertising, as we have seen. Not only would I focus on the last national elections, but it is only right that we remember all the elections so far, when individual parties have shown themselves in all their greatness, but nothing has happened. The rest are only debts owed to customers later covered by the rich, of course, for counterservices at a time when they took over their power and had the opportunity to repay for services before the elections. This could have been felt in all governments. And that's how simple people felt, voters. The Commission is usually set up to cover up. According to experience, no commission has done its job of setting up, so that you get the feeling that these parliamentary commissions are only being set up to discredit someone, talk and write a lot in the media, and thus cover what is lost, which would otherwise be written in free-of-charges. I think that the parliamentary commissions are only being set up to pay a raise to the presidents of these commissions, who have not yet had a position and which brings additional earnings to pay. Like I said, nothing's going to happen, only the state will be deprived of a lot of money. Nothing's going to change back. But if this would help in advance, I would be happy to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u129	Mr. Ljubo Germich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Dejan Levanic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think that, in the matter of this commission of inquiry, only one and only purpose was to clarify what had happened to these freemen in the pre-election period, particularly in the pre-election period. This is because there were a lot of words about the fact that these free-for-alls are not only intended for an election campaign, but that they will also be used for post-election purposes, i.e. for public information and that they will come out because there is a need in the Slovenian space for these free-of-chargers. As we've seen, it wasn't like that. Right after the election, these freebies went out. However, those who think or believe that in these stories something was wrong were small and large players who made up part of this pre-election story, which in my opinion must no longer be repeated in Slovenia. And that is that before every election, we will be witnesses to such a system as we have witnessed before the last elections. So that someone who's in power, power against someone who doesn't like to do a big media campaign and a chase. I have no objection to the fact that in the Slovenian media space it is written about objective facts, what is true. But to try to discredit political rivalries because you have this moment in power, some capital and power and influence, and to use it against those who use arguments against you in elections, I find it pointless. We can talk here about the purpose of these freemen and what their content was, but together we must be aware that if we fly only the content of the freemen, we can quickly find out that it was only the discreditation of the opposition at that time. So, left-wing or leaders of these political parties who wanted to take the election. If we go over some of the content, we see that to a large extent the leaders of the left-wing parties, with such or otherwise discreditation, are performing in them. For example, the former President of the Republic of Slovenia, Milan Kučan, also performs in these freemen with the T-shirt of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia, mentions various almost lies, who all finances political parties on the left, what are these links. In particular, let's say it's a lie that Social Democrats President Borut Pahor bought himself a prestigious BMW SUV. All of these are verifiable facts that people may not check because they read in a newspaper. And it is right that if someone is already discredited to be discredited on the basis of arguments, that is, content arguments, what is right and what is wrong, but not that things are written that do not hold. But people take some of the things that are written in the media for sure. That means you have to be careful what it says. Finally, a colleague of Klasinchev's, in particular, talked about the consideration of journalistic ethics. Then there are, say, a lot of articles on the theme of the Social Democrats' team, who will be all the ministers. All these names, which are written in these free of charge, none of these people today are ministers, only Mr Svetlik, who has been scheduled for the Minister of Higher Education in free of charge, is today the Minister of Labour. A lot of information that wasn't accurate just because people have a negative opinion. Not to mention how the parties to the left are connected with the media, whose media is owned and so on. The vast majority of these articles, which were negative against the parties to the opposition at the time, did not contain any facts and arguments. There have been discredits, including personal discredits of political opponents, which I think is wrong. On the other hand, we have witnessed that in these magazines a great deal of gratitude was given or directed to the then ruling coalition, without any critical consideration of what is happening in the country and what Slovenia needs. I think it is right to set up this commission of inquiry to come to concrete conclusions, who, if any, is in the background, in what way these clocks were financed and, above all, very important, whether the state-owned companies which had to advertise in these free-of-charges were forced to do so, whether they could afford it, or whether it was in any way related to the situation they were in today. There are many strangers, and I hope that the Commission of Inquiry will come up with concrete answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u131	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are dealing with one of the most intriguing of these last years. It is not a media topic, because there is no media talk, there is no newspaper talk, but we are only talking about some highly selective political manoeuvre, which is a very significant failure, which was at such a low level that it is difficult to define even as a mafia maneuver; the mafia usually works more intelligently, more sophisticatedly. And to such ecclesiastical abuses and such tasteless attempts of disqualification by one political party in order to have a certain authority - because I am talking about the period when he is an alleged, almost very likely sponsor, these freeholders were in power and he tried to keep this power in a very low way. Because of this failure, today we are facing a strange situation that was highlighted by colleague Györek when he said "what we are talking about because they did not receive elections". They really didn't win the election, because the nation recognized an attempt at fraud that didn't pay off. But we are also discussing the data in the light of the last case of the freeman we received the day before yesterday, and this is very vaguely, during the speech of the President of the Republic, we found ourselves at one time with this opulent publication, which is called the President's symbolic decoration of crime - Constitutional accusation against Daniel Türk. And what did we find in there? Again a bunch of documents, probably very selectively prepared documents, and on the back it says: Democracy, 15 euros. You know, I got this free, I didn't pay 15 euros. I ask: was this a gift to all Members of the SDS or the newspaper of Democracy? And what is the newspaper Democracy? The journal Democracy is found on the list of those media that have enjoyed and are consumers of public funds. So one of those media that was most effectively drawn from the media pluralisation fund of the Ministry of Culture. Finally, we see what the results are. But we will not stop at this because we are talking about other freemen, although there is a very likely connection between this freeman, who was very ideologically oriented and in the service or in the interest of one of the parties to the National Assembly, SDS, and those freemen who began to come out in July 2008 and ended immediately after the elections, which was very clear what they were meant for. There's something else we've had today. This defence of the SNS, the only party to the opposition, including the then opposition, which was not subject to burns, disqualifications or negative propaganda in these freeholders. Clearly, in one SNS Express, Mr Makarovič referred to him as "a party to a constructive protest" and then wrote a nice smug national party. In one Express there is a column, without a signature, entitled "Familia Juri", where we can track the thesis, which is constantly repeated by an esteemed colleague from the Slovenian National Party and could be attributed this article, which is otherwise anonymous, I do not know if he wrote it, but he repeatedly repeats it in his performances in the National Assembly. A whole series of very strange cases and strange connections. At that time, there was obviously one synergy between the two parties who divided the deal in terms of: let us blacken, let us make it clear to everyone else that we will remain in power somewhere. It has not expired or at least partially, since today this story with freemen apparently continues smoothly. This is followed by some media closely linked to the most powerful opposition party. But this could all be part of a legitimate political struggle. What is very strange and must be explained, not to explain, for the sake of the back, as the SDS wants to clear something 50 or 60 years ago, but to clarify the relationship between politics and media abuse - although there is no talk about the media, it is only about some of the newsletters that have been on some strange trails, and all the indications, all the evidence leads to the SDS, we have heard how many connections and how many phantom companies that are in one way or another connected to the Slovenian Democratic Party - or what is actually happening in the Slovenian political space. Not only low blows, but actually what is referred to in the Italian media space as "piovre" - as octopus. It is these parties who are constantly talking about some of the plots that these plots are the ones who know not only the most, but they do. And they're the only ones who really do. And all the hunters we have seen today in these indications, which will be confirmed or rejected at the work of the incoming commission, lead to one head. And this head is usually very well known, because it repeats things that were then published in the free offices themselves. This is a sad story of political abuse of propaganda that would still be acceptable if taxpayers did not pay for it. But they are. Do you have any idea how much this project cost? Two million euros. 2 million euros, which ended up in the trash, because most of my neighbors, I live in a block where there are 20 families, and almost 20 Expresses I saw in a basket right away. The inadequacy of those publications was such that an ordinary citizen did not waste time reading such pamphlets and disqualifications. But 2 million euros for that, Comrade Györek, when you say, "Why disclose now?" This must be prevented from using funds that are very likely to come from public budgets in any way. And if this is proven, it'll be on the verge of a crime. EUR 2 million was covered by advertising from state capital companies only quarterly. 500 thousand euros came from advertisements, a million and a half. Where did you get that million and a half? That'll be interesting to reveal. There was also talk of patriotism. Maybe it's part of the Patri dish. Maybe. We don't know that, but when that thesis came up, it was nervous about SDS. And today too. And this Commission is also interesting from this point of view because it will slowly come to the source of funding for these funds. I see my colleagues on the right are a little nervous, and my colleague from SNS is nervous, so he's laughing. Laughing means relaxation and laughter is healthy. Let's laugh. I agree. We can all laugh today and laugh even more at the end of this commission because this story is one of the most interesting stories of political conspiracy in Slovenia. It's not real. I think it is very topical, because if it does happen again, no matter what Comrade Potočnik said, on the color of the botts using such methods, it will be a loss for Slovenian democracy. And what's interesting is that democracy even appears as the title of a newspaper that is probably very much connected to these methods, which has also been proven by this publication, which it advertises at the last stop. An interesting story, certainly an interesting story to bring to an end so as not to repeat. If we move on like this, then the discreditation of individuals or political parties, anonymous discredits, that is, articles where a person did not know how to defend himself. How am I supposed to defend myself when I read it, let's say Juri's last name came from Jurič, which would mean that the ancestor came from southern Balkan regions to Slovenia and here he declared himself a member of the Italian minority, which in the postwar period was a common practice, but not so rare today? No author. Or did a colleague from SNS write? These are the issues that come together. You must have read this article. This article, which he read, now repeatedly repeats. But it's interesting. It was a culture of reporting on these media. And what happened? That they survived from July to September and then ended. Two million euros is probably public money. At the time, there were various funds for this media repulsion, then the Patria affair, then the state, the government controlled some companies, the companies became, disappeared, and, of course, some were even carriers of these free-of-charges. So, I wish the Commission a successful job, and perhaps, gentlemen of the opposition, at the end of this commission's work, we will still be able to laugh. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u133	Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! First of all, my friend Yuri, it is a very fantastic day for me today, as the President of the Social Democrats Borut Pahor put it, and I do not know what kind of nervousness there is. I'm very relaxed, I feel great. I didn't understand where you actually felt the nervousness on my side, but still. I'm also glad that I was finally able to find out where your last name came from. It's a real educational paper. This is also something for Slovenia, including political space. In the beginning, however, colleague Györek described very well what this investigative commission of freemen meant. And that's two freebies that are actually gone today. We talk about things that don't exist, but we have a lot of problems, and this country has a lot of big problems, and they're nothing. So the coalition has to deal with things that don't exist anymore. But I agree, if you think there's something wrong here, then we need to investigate it. But there's a lot more to explore. In your record of setting up this commission of inquiry concerning free-of-chargers, you also wrote that in this case it was a covert campaign that favoured a political option. Interesting, really interesting, when we know that since independence in Slovenia, most media or newspapers have favored only one political option. And it doesn't favor you secretly, but very openly. There are a lot of fans here with strict self-censorship when it comes to assessing the work of this government. Even more, in the last Baricevic affair, all the power and influence on the media have been demonstrated by left-wing political options, which have proven to be pressing both on journalists and on the fact that a lot of media can't be recorded in relation to this affair. Not to mention that the forums were simply shut down wherever they could be. I seriously wonder what is more important to you: two payers who are no longer there, who are no longer in the field at all, are not on the horizon, or are pressured by journalists, that they should not write things that are evident, that are happening in our society, and that because it goes to someone's nose, they should be disabled in their work, which must otherwise be autonomous. I'm more interested in that. Do you think that's the right way? Of course, that points to two things. For the first time, this story, which took place, or Baričevič or Bulmastifa affair, was very strongly cut into the left political option, especially the LDS party and Interior Minister Katarina Kresal. And secondly, it shows how media freedom in Slovenia is far from untouchable and highly questionable. Not because of the two freebies you're going to be talking about, and you're going to be looking into them. Media freedom is questionable because of other things that are essential to this place and this society that we are in. Not to mention that most responsible editors who belong to the left political option in one way or another already know exactly what they cannot write. It's built into the system. He knows exactly what he can't write, and he also knows exactly what he can't publish. Personally, I am absolutely in favour of talking about free people, investigating them, but I suggest we explore them, as my colleague Zorn said at the outset, including the background of some other free people. For example, freeman Good morning, which is a true cheerleader, according to its contentive attitude, first the party really, and then the LDS and the Social Democrats. However, SDS is usually mentioned only in cases where it is necessary to discredit someone. That's the only time he mentions them. Not to mention how Sunday's diary, which is not a freebie, is true, but maybe it's even worse. How the Sunday Diary, together with the creator of the public opinion and not with the public opinion criterion, Mr Damjanić, regularly openly advertises the client Zares and the other left parties. He vomits regularly on those who belong to the right political option. You don't find that questionable. You don't find that questionable. Not to mention that your President, Comrade Juri, Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Mr Gregor Golobič, was quoted years ago as saying by some media to a certain journalist, I will not tell which one, on the phone, I will direct the article on the Mutual. Very interesting. And you're upset about two freebies who don't even exist anymore. This is not just about the fact that these newspapers are favored by left-wing political options. Even the politicians in this option create their content through them to the press. You don't find that questionable. The coalition wants to investigate the background of the freebies, who, I repeat, no longer exist. It would be good to say that there would also be such newspapers, because then we could uncensoredly write, for example, about the universally connected Liberal Democracy of Slovenia in the Bulmastif affair. It would also be right to identify the potential political responsibility of political function holders in influencing most Slovenian newspapers and magazines emanating from two large media houses, Dnevnik and Dela. The first is under the leadership of Mr Petan, who belongs very intensively to the LDS, and the second is under the leadership of those who ordered journalists to malign John Janša as much as possible before the elections in the National Assembly and to praise and write as beautifully as possible about the future term of office, Mr Borut Pahor, all in order to come into power. But that doesn't seem very problematic to you, comrades from the coalition. This is really not about freemen, but it is about genuine sympathy with a certain political option and the artificial construction of politicians on the left hand side of the political field. How else, then, should we picture the capture of all the names of the party president who received significantly fewer votes in the elections to the National Assembly than she had the posters? This is also the deception of the Slovenian people, citizens and citizens and should also be discussed. And maybe we could include that in our own investigation and explore that. I personally support this investigation, and I think we can come up with some interesting discoveries, but I suggest you clear up your own threshold first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u135	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor. Excuse me, Mr. Kumer. Here you go. Mr. Franco Yuri, can I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u136	Replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u137	Replica, you can.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u138	I've been mentioned twice, and I think I have a right to this replica. First of all, I thank my colleague Irgle for finding out we're not nervous. It's clear we're not nervous, everyone's saying what they think is right. And we can also talk about the very origin of our surname on coffee, peacefully and scientifically. You believe in articles in Express, not to think that this is scientific journalism, but the problem is that there is no signature, and in this is a key problem in citing some of the alleged biased commentators. All you have said, colleague Irgl, about some newspapers that exist, exist for years and exist now, have an address, have an editorial, and will remain, is that under those unobjective columns a journalist, commentator, will sign. It's signed. Your papers didn't have any signatures, it was just manure, no authors. And that's the problem. We're talking about two ethical levels here. For you, it's all legitimate, it's okay, it's not a problem, because it took very short, but it cost 2 million euros, let's not forget that. For a few months some individuals and some political options have been mutilated, you may have lost 2 million euros. And that's something that needs to be told to the public. While other newspapers, you know, they live professionally. And also the so-called freebies you mentioned are acting on the principle that advertising is based on advertising. And they're, anyway, more professional than -- I don't know what to call them. It's not about the media. We're not talking about media policy today. Your boss talked about media policy for hours in the National Assembly, when he attacked all the journalists, the signatories to the famous petition. We have had a precedent in European policy that some prime minister has devoted several hours of his own speech to attacks on journalists. That's what happened. And that's just the continuation of that attitude towards the media. This is an insult to the media, an insult to the press. And that's what the press said. Please! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u139	Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Yeah, but today we have a real political story ahead of us, I think. A purely political story about us, about the politicians and about the political parties we participated in the elections. And in this context, I understand the laughter and some ironic performances or claims and assessments of some in this Chamber who can tell a lot about some networks, including steel networks, that have felt such fear that in some such network in the future, when this commission works, they will find themselves. Maybe. And that's why this laugh and this irony is today. But I think it's two newspapers, and I'm going to call it a freebie, which is not like the freebies that you can get in your mailboxes every day or occasionally or you can pick them up yourself in places that are designed for that, and there's a lot of advertising and advertising space in them for legal entities and for advertising individuals. In this case, there are two free newspapers, with over 700,000 copies, whose content was exclusively political propaganda for one party, I will not speak for one political option, and its leaders, and anti-propaganda and dirty electoral campaign for most other parties and personalities. Even for one of the clients from the so-called political gender, the right political gender. Since freemen are generally financed from advertising and advertising revenues, it is logical that there is a suspicion that these two newspapers were financed in a different way by freemen who did not have these commercial ads in abundance. Perhaps, and here there is suspicion, with the help of those who were promoted and magnified in these two newspapers this month, for two months. For this reason, among other things, the truth about free espresso and the New Week may be the truth about Patria. In other media over the last year and a half, in two years, a lot has been written about it. In public, we have been able to find many clues, clues, and also some documents to assist in issuing these two newspapers. And we're back on the grid. And once again, you'll be able to tell a lot about this networking. And maybe there'll be laughter and irony. It is therefore right to find out in Parliament what is the real background behind the publication of these two newspapers and who has influenced the financing and issuance of these two newspapers and to identify the possible political responsibility of the public function holders in this story if they find themselves in this network and the Commission will find out. And also because there is a lot of information and suspicion that these two newspapers were financed by allegedly corrupt transactions, as well as by the questions that some state-owned companies, which today had a lot of talk, would have purchased in these two newspapers an advertising space with contracts that would later be suspended and paid high penalties for breaking these contracts. These indications, these suspicions cannot and must not remain unanswered, because they are companies where the co-owner or majority owner of the state of Slovenia is. It's time to put the cards on the table. Improperness was obviously too much for us to overlook and sweep under the rug. In the clients of the current coalition, we waited a year and waited for something. Today, it has been mentioned in some other newspapers that perhaps someone on your side would have launched such an investigative commission as the opposition, but you did not do so. Therefore, of course, there is no point in extending the current investigation. We have decided on these two questionable freemen, and we will carry out this parliamentary inquiry. The fact is that the freemen who arose just before the elections and went out immediately after the elections were no longer there after the elections, only proof that they were politically motivated. This evidence, or this political motivation, can also be created in its head by a primary school graduate of the ninth grade. The self-absorbing of both newspapers immediately after the elections is only amateur and this underlines the amateur confirmation of this fact and the indicator of what the purpose and purpose of these two freemen were: to influence only and only the electoral campaign on the outcome of the elections, whatever it was. The strategies, political analysts of those who have made the concept of this media strategy, have clearly been taken into account in these two free-of-charge analysts, according to the result they are expected to give. I do not believe in the story that in this case it is an afternoon leisure activity, a hobby of the sympathizers of one of the political parties who would be willing to invest a few million euros in their own money in defeating the elections. Rather, it will be assessed that political analysts and strategists and content editors of media campaign planners have been counted and overestimated in their ability to generate electoral results. This is the assessment that your president has made several times in the last 20 years, for the first time in 1992 in this high assembly. It is therefore necessary to determine how and how many political and political fingers were involved in this business by means of a parliamentary inquiry. The second question is how and how these two freegivers were financed. This should have been a long time ago a matter of prosecution, police investigation, because the clues and suspicions, as I said before, have been very large in the last year and a half. If nothing else, interesting contributions concerning the Patria affair should be made to these authorities, where a solid armoured network was developed, which also included indications and suspicions of the financing of these two free agents. And how did I find out at the time of the electoral campaign about the existence of one of these freebies, because none - not one of them - had I received in the mailbox? I live in such a part of Ljubljana where, by chance, more than 700,000 copies have not reached me. One day my youngest son came and attended the ninth grade of elementary school and trusted me that I did not stand much of a chance at the elections that would be held on September 21st. On the question of what's the point, he told me that his gym teacher was publishing a newspaper about my client, my president, and someone else. I found that it was Express and the gym teacher who was the director of the company that published this newspaper, i.e. a public sector employee, who had d.o.o. where he was director, and in the register of the Ministry of Culture he was even registered as editor of the newspaper Express. In itself, the question arises as to what genius we have in our educational system, even though we are so critical of teachers and teachers. At primary school they teach exercise, they "furnish" a private company, they "furnish" even a newspaper with over 300,000 copies, editorial meetings are likely to be held at the gym, even at some fundraiser of the previous government, and the articles can be written to them if there is a need, including students, children. And to finance this scale, I'm talking about this particular newspaper, 3X5 centimeters big ad by Dolly the fortune teller, who's supposed to cover a few hundred thousand euros. The time for jokes has passed, said in the debate on the constitutional charge of one of today's debaters in this Chamber. There's Uda again at work. Perhaps it is true that in the case of these two freemen at the work of the Ascension.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u141	Mr. Magg has the word. Andrea Richter. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Joko Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u142	Mr. Magg has the word. Andrea Richter. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Joko Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that. When I was given the opportunity to sign this act establishing a parliamentary inquiry into free people, I gladly signed. Why? I remember when I got in the mailbox this freebie and when I went alone to check who owned this publishing company, I found out by register that it was a gym teacher and his life partner was the director of this freebie. The Slovenian Week and Express were very well covered. You never got them both at once, but the weather was pretty covered. We were so well bombed. Why did I gladly sign here? Because I think that if we were to have all the variants of advertising again in this wide spectrum, all the hundreds of thousands of fliers that we've heard today, and a hundred thousand free goggles, one hundred thousand kranian sausages, one hundred thousand lighters, one hundred thousand chemical pencils, then a stroke. I'm coming from Lithuania, and those few hundred euros they gave me for my campaign, I decided to set up a stand where it was set, I went to ask and they said I couldn't get it because it's occupied, the SDS has everything on the lease. Then we listened to the estranged artists who sang, and the ensembles performed. After all, I am happy to sign because I know that we are investigating only two things, and it will be such a short work that we will come to an end and figure out what and where these money went. But if it were this width, I wouldn't sign it. This is where I know we're close. And those who say that this newspaper was canceled must have been canceled because they lost it in the elections because they could not continue to betray it. Thank you for publishing them in such a form that we have also gotten something in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u144	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Lucky Friend.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First answer to Mr. Franc, I won't have a last name, because I can say it wrong. We write a lot of things in the Slovenian National Party and we hope to also sign them. But it is true that what was written was disputed by the Italian minority. And on the occasion that his brother’s term expired, he himself wanted to run for office on that list, she said that it was not an Italian last name and that they could not be Italians. We are also spitting at by those who are not known whether their father or any other swinger has made them. And that's a fact, and that goes for him. Today, the proposer of this commission is not in the Chamber. It bothers me. This proposer will have the honour of leading this committee, this honourable committee, and will have as much as EUR 1000 to pay. But there's something else I'd like to say. Why don't we stop the commission that's gonna take care of how Slovenians live? Slovenians today have neither bread nor milk nor bills, more than 100,000 of them unemployed. And nobody cares about that. These Slovenians also went to the referendum when we decided on Slovenia's independence, with the hope and desire to live better, and live like rats, like some mice. By honest work for 182, 186 hours they do not earn enough to pay their bills, to get a fair basket of living expenses. And so we should set up a commission or a commission, and I would be just about to figure out essentially the involvement of abuse for these poor puppies, and see how many politicians there were in these dirty games. That would be interesting. Government, too [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I'd be an investigator in a lot of them. [[...]] It's very sad that we're setting up a commission just to find out why some newspapers were two years ago. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u146	Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you so much for saying that. I must admit that I am not exactly in favour of parliamentary investigative commissions. There's more to it than that. If we look at the most common statistics, and as my colleague would say, the seizure of all the investigative commissions so far is not very rich, except for a very large number of debates and press releases. I must admit that at the time of the creation and issuance of these freebies, which we are talking about today and the establishment of an investigative commission at the time of creation, I have not seen them, but I have seen them now. Some of my young colleagues and colleagues gave me photocopies, and I must admit that I was surprised, surprised, not least disappointed. And because of this, because of the content that some have already read today, I will support this committee. I will support her because I think that, my dear colleagues, we must stop the lies. Once upon a time, the Memorial said, "Stop the left, the right, John, and I don't know who else." But we really must, colleagues, stop the lies and stop the hyperproduction of lies, manipulations, half-truths and abuses, both of them. When I read the articles from these freebies, I found that they were written that way, even if I wanted to use all the institutions of the rule of law, you just can't say otherwise or otherwise or take any normal action. That is why I think that this commission of inquiry will be seized by the modernisation of legislation, regulation of such and similar phenomena, which cannot be proud of any one. Some say that by such a similar commission of inquiry, we want to blur or divert attention. However, we had a case in this Chamber two days ago when, with a constitutional charge, colleagues and colleagues focused attention on some past periods. And this commission, I think, as part of the media affairs and the preparation of legislation, will nevertheless come to some new knowledge, and I believe that by stopping the lies and stopping all manipulations that are unfortunately too much, I will not say that only on this side or on one side, which everyone can somehow look at before their threshold and clean up and see what and how. For universal things, I have always been, and I believe, and I hope that this commission will succeed. To rule, to control, to manipulate, and to be in power, no matter how, how, and at what cost, of course, historically far back, the desire of any individual who in any way pursues politics. But politics must be in public good; politics must be for those who have chosen these policies. When I was writing these freebies, I found that, among other things, the investigative committee that she was dealing with, say, Patrio, had a lot of mud. And why the mud? And why mud in such quantities?Oh, my God! I think we can actually stop these lies and everything else that goes with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u148	Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u149	Thank you. Good-bye to all of you. Today, this debate is really good, which is an excellent continuation of yesterday and even fully confirms it. That at one time the aggressive password of the transition left Stop the right! replace the current apparently depressing password of the transition leftists you show in all your speeches, stop the truth. And then, of course, accompany this with all possible and impossible nonsense. The problem cannot be addressed except in the context of the media situation in Slovenia. That's the essence of this story, which, of course, you avoid as a cat hot porridge. What is this condition? You know this better than any of us on the democratic political side, and you have expressed it beautifully in some letters, Dear Borut, dear Tone. It is a long-standing aggressive subjugation of the media, media space by the Taiwanese capital associated with the transition left. Therefore, the current media area is extremely one-sided, no one can deny it, and this is seen even when it comes to solidarity among journalists. 571 were willing to engage them to write twice in the Council to put Europe at risk if it is led by Slovenia, because it was a political engagement; when it comes to their colleague, who recently asked for support, it was this medal or it was not at all. This is the real situation in Slovenia. It's a media situation. This might indeed require an investigative commission; but, in order to cover up what is after these two days, but also after the last two days, it is obvious that your former password "stop the right" has replaced only your current password "stop the truth" and it is very sad for every country where this happens. The fact is, you went to the old rule of transition left-wing: attack is the best defense. In fact, if you're going with as loud a voice as you've been doing this, then probably no one will notice that Mrs. Shirca, as a minister, was funding some kind of contribution from a freeman, who, as even in your circles, is all said, no one has ever seen it, but it was a few tens of thousands of euros, that it was the annual salary of one woman in the Ministry of Culture from a means to pluralize the media for a very important cultural project, I quote, "recording a porn film with a bear". 3,000 euros for someone with one doll or two to "execute" something on the screen. This is something that you finance from taxpayers' money, which also shows your priorities. And of course, in order to avoid this, you have to point your finger at others, even those who are gone, because unfortunately the two media we're talking about today have stopped coming out. Under such media conditions, every medium is extremely valuable if it deviates from the established ideological media pattern in Slovenia. Every medium! And the most valuable media right now is definitely the Internet. If it were not for Mr Fireman and his side, they would never know the truth about the transition left and some garage, they would not know what was going on with those dogs, and the matter would probably be dead and there would be some impression that some terrible dogs had mutilated their master. It's an official version that was about to be sold in the first hours. However, he has done his precious duty as a modern medium and we can only be happy in Slovenia that such media even exists. However, such media, which deviates from the official process, is rare, and therefore many in these tabulated media, because it is obviously under pressure from some editorial policy, probably tied or directed - if you want - by the Taiwanese capital and the policy behind it is very rare and therefore many are caught up in hidden messages. Let's say, from this point of view that I mentioned earlier, I would remind you that we were able to read a while ago - even during one of the previous governments of the transitional left - how "dogs bark and caravans go on". And we all wondered how something that was essentially hate speech, because it was obvious that it was going like a caravan of transition lefts to publish it. But today, in this context of what these modern media have exposed, we can only ask ourselves whether this journalist wanted to draw attention between the lines of barking of Baricevic's dogs and the transition left, which was like a caravan lined up in that garage. These are hidden messages to which they are found and which may be revealing things; sometimes, too, let’s say that when it comes to a newspaper, let’s say, in a given case, the Cathedral, when they expose some people’s visions, we don’t have that impression at that point. Look, Mr Golobič spoke in 2008 about "the current government's mandate has been inherited by an investment". How visionary, in view of the total disaster that the current government and the coalition for Slovenia are to say! The man is a visionary, this is seen from this medium, which, as an interesting mention, was also partly co-financed by the Ministry of Media pluralisation. In view of the fact that he may have pointed to something important in the context of a hidden message, this is certainly also justified. Of course, there are other yellow media in Slovenia that reveal important facts, for example, in this way we were able to familiarize ourselves with swinging in the Jura family, especially because the gentleman was previously extremely loud, probably on the basis of pride, because he is also known about or about the wider family and, of course, because this also opens a taboo of darkness. [[...]] And here we come to an area that is indeed worth devoting to, ladies and gentlemen. Even today there is a taboo of darkness in this society. For example, a typical example: hate speech, constant presence of transition leftists. But that's not what we're talking about. It's not what we're talking about. If one person on any political page puts a word into just one awkward sentence, such as a homosexual, all newspapers will be invited to do so, the liberal academy will speak, and another will answer. If a member of the SD is besieged by the opposition, and if any journalist writes, he should almost apologize, let's say that someone would point out that a full comment was published in a newspaper, as in The Comment with the title Luknjaci, which provoked a direct physical attack on me. I informed the court of that because I had to go to the court to publish an amendment at all. And then when I told the court, they landed there, not only did they publish the correction -- but they didn't want to talk before -- but they paid all the costs, and there were journalists. You're not gonna believe this taboo! No one wrote anything about this, because then we would be wondering who is really spreading hate speech in Slovenia. By the way, the whole story is the saddest thing, from my personal point of view, is that I had a physical attack by taking my little daughter by hand. That's what I have to say. The whole story hurt me the most. Well, it is interesting that Mr Kumer, who had had a great deal to say before, could be a person who would have been considered a symbol when it comes to pressure from transition left-wing journalists on independent journalism. I would like to recall his words in this Chamber concerning one of the editors of RTV Slovenia, which, as far as it was possible to read from the newspapers, was then even sued. And I believe that this lawsuit is still ongoing. By the way, that's one of those taboos again. The public secret is that one of the very well-known leaders of the current coalition has spread out months ago, as you now have subordinated all the media and that there is no problem for this coalition. That's very interesting, but that's not what we're talking about, and it's not written. When you throw someone on the road, you laugh. What? This man is in an oncology hospital right now. You know exactly who I'm talking about. When he puts himself at the head of one of the key institutions in charge of information, the person who abuses his position to act as a consultant to the Prime Minister, you make a mockery of it. This is the real state of these taboos. And in such a case, when even [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u150	Mr. Mag. Grimes. I'd like to ask you nicely. I don't know, I'm listening to your expositions, and I don't know what point we're dealing with. We can extend it across all borders, but please limit yourself to the point we're discussing. Please. Also, such things as I have heard now, about a disease, about an oncological patient and so on, please don't mention it! I would also ask you not to mention any more in this discussion of the tragedy that occurred before the time and which the entire Slovenian public is talking about. Distasteful! I find it distasteful as a man and a doctor. Please, hold on to what I said! I stole some time from you. I'll extend it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for further confirming how right I am that your password -Stop right - replaces only the password Stop the truth and so on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u152	Mr. Grimes, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u153	I think so. [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u154	Don't put any words in my mouth, because [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u155	No, no, thanks for being [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u156	I didn't. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u157	certificates [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u158	I said it!Oh, my God! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u159	It's with your actions. [[...]] Really, please, keep going! Even when it comes to cultural heritage, it happens that today, at a press conference organised by two opposition parties, one of the journalists hardly hopes to come, but it is Plečnik, something most precious that we owe to our craftsmen. And for the fact that everything, even cultural heritage, is clearly subordinated to the interests of capital at the time of the present power. But that's not what we're talking about, and it doesn't say. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, every medium - and we return to the context of this story - departing from this established pattern, unfortunately for most, but thank God not all the media in Slovenia, is so precious. And that's why it's so valuable to find authors and journalists who write differently. Even if he gets them carried away sometimes, because he also gets the ones in the published media - some of the cases I gave you a little earlier. As a result, the existence of any such media is not only important, but even a contribution to the realization of the constitutional right to information. For after the constitution, ladies and gentlemen, every right to information on any area of social life is illuminated by different values of view. And it's logical, if on one side is an explicitly some cartel, if you want, a media cartel of the transition left, which is extremely unilaterally illuminating, which has a whole kind of taboo that then someone who somehow takes possession of what is a media niche; and we can only regret that there are no such ones anymore. If there were more, the space would be more balanced, there would be fewer excesses on one side and on the other, and there would be better information. This is a fundamental condition for democracy to function fully. As long as there is any distortion until there is a balance, then it is natural that there are phenomena from which you have previously tried to make fun of quite unsuccessfully. Because it's a reaction to what's going on in the rest of them. And because of this, I hope that when this Commission is formed, it will also devote an important aspect to this issue, because it is a much longer-term fateful issue. For, ladies and gentlemen, until the right to information as a constitutional right is fully realized, every moment is available information about any matter, illuminated by different value corners, democracy is only a farce. For your sake, I would like you to go to the password you had decades ago and step away from the password you've been following for the last few months. Stop stopping the truth. No one can stop the truth in the modern world anymore. You won't either!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u160	Mr. Magg has the word. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u161	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u162	Excuse me. Mr. Kumer, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u163	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. For the second time or for the third time, I'd like to reject the insinuation by my colleague Grimes that I was putting pressure on the press. I don't have a reporter - on this particular matter that we know what it is - I haven't called or pressed. But it is true that in the National Assembly, I told the truth about which you stand. That you were putting pressure on Studio's editor at 5:00, why he didn't invite you to the show. And that you forced yourself to be on this show. And Chief Radio's sanction was that this man who didn't agree to your pressure on the press was sanctioned. That's the whole truth! And the fact that I'm in some kind of criminal procedure is the third time I've heard that from you. I don't even know: I didn't get anything, I don't know anything. How do you know that? From where?Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u164	Mr. Yuri, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Grimes is obviously in a lot of trouble if he comes to such conclusions that have nothing to do with today's debate. He talks about the yellow press that reveals certain affairs of some families - I don't care about the Grims family at all, but I'm interested in what happened around these two freemen. The yellow press is important, of course, to reveal, to write, no one is troubled by the yellow press today. We are problematic - not the press, but two of your newsletters, which were created, left and demanded two million euros. From where? 700,000 copies of the scattered, scattered money; and that's it! You're deceiving, you're trying to open new files, new scripts that have nothing to do with it, Mr Grims; and you know it! You are a good rhetoric at that point when you try to blur the essence of the problem; and the essence of the problem is what happened around two freebies: whether there are other categories involved here or here is an affair Patria associated with it. That's the key, so let's have a nice laugh again, you're pretty when you're laughing.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u166	Mr. Magg has the word. Fran Znidarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The cost for freemen was disproportionately high and could not be afforded by those who claimed to be editors and owners. The articles were not laudable to anyone, but were repeatedly written with a view to discrediting the potential left-wing candidates in the next elections. So I'm sure that there were some sort of pre-election kits that, at the time they were coming out before the campaign, shouldn't have come out at all. If there was no pre-election motive, I'm sure these freebies would either not be or would have lasted longer sooner or later. The comparison with other media is not critical because there is no criticism here and there, because others can be cheerleading here and there, but they were mostly destructive, discrediting, operating on insinuations, lies and structures, in order to discredit the individual people they cited there, mainly by the former opposition. I was among them myself, and the fact that the President of the current opposition party felt that I was not part of the position at the time is simply coincidentally related to the fact that I was being attacked by lies. For example, as it was, that I invite one arrested in the Clean shovel action to run for DeSUS, or that I encouraged a change in the coordination of pensions in 2000, when I was not a Member and not a Secretary of State, I started my post at the Ministry on 9 January 2001. Thus, these freemen had no doubt the pre-election and electoral motive of the then upcoming elections to the National Assembly and, as such, some kind of hidden campaign, as he sees it. I also have to say that some people have said that some of today's newspapers are boasting, for example, of the Prime Minister of the Government and that they are trumpeting. Our Prime Minister deserves to be commended, he is such a good man that he bears the brunt of insults, accusations and humiliations and does not resist. He's like this, he's good, and that's why it's so obvious that someone's singing too much, empty because they couldn't have found a better one in that sense. But as for how some praise the discovery of various affairs and so forth, I must say that with all those who liked all the articles about the unfortunate story of the death of someone because of the attack of dogs, it is wrong with all those who liked it, how it is written about it, but something really wrong. I feel sorry for them because they understand the press as denying the pieta, common sense, and way of dealing with those who have ended badly, their relatives, and so on. I do not condemn what was happening with regard to this writing, because I do not know enough to write, I said, from what point of view; but also from the point of view of the written words - what the eminent people in this country have written that this is not the way and that such a way should not be. However, the free people have been at the bottom of a certain writing culture and I cannot agree with them, especially because they have reflected the clear direction of the efforts of certain forces in this country and have spent a disproportionate amount of money, which even rich people - in millions of euros - would not have been able to afford just that, without some serious purpose and without a tangible goal; which, of course, once again, there is no exception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u168	The word has Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I have to say, unlike most people today who say they're very happy and this is a beautiful day, I don't share it with them. I think it's sad that we have to, and we're forced to, in fact, talk here in the National Assembly about freebies that could be called softly. And unfortunately, the debate that is taking place here today at certain points of the border on a very low level, and I must say that we are hardly in a good mood. More than once today, it has wanted to compare the newspapers for which we propose naming the midwives for whom we propose to explore their way of looking, funding, writing, authors and the like, with some other free people. There's no way to compare it, and that's, I'll say, ordinary cynicism or some kind of defense that's full of scheming. Why and where is the difference? Slovenian weekly and Express are newspapers, for which we have never actually been able to identify, from what they were financed, where they were given the teachers of exercise - and similar - two million euros, as was calculated in some grave way, for their origin. The editors were people who never and never appeared in journalism. And also newspapers were like the Journal and Good Morning, full of ads and people see who's financing and who's behind it, and that's the way it was written today. Someone publishes ads, and that's the way it's financed. In these newspapers you will not find ads, so to speak, except for the already mentioned fortune teller Doli, Kia's cars and the candle for Mail Slovenia. It's a few things I found, and it was almost impossible to find ads. And that's a big difference, because then you ask yourself, where did the money come from for this big deal in 730,000 copies? Further, authors. The authors in these phantom newspapers are unknown, they're hidden, they're anonymous. It feels like there's a lot of people who have spoken here today that's very close to these authors, speaking a little bit in front of me. These were the authors with names: Vid Videc, Jernej Novak, Anej Jalen, some Cloud, Kranjc, Jerman and so on. When you look at the Internet, none of these people have bibliography, no articles, never published anywhere. Just here. And even when they were called either to court or to a press hearing, there were no such people and the editor answered that they were unknown or phantom and pseudonymous. In short, in the newspapers that you wanted to compare with these today, the authors are known, the journalists are defined. We all know who the editor of the Journal is, he shows up as a commentator. And here are some authors you'll never find anywhere you'll ever know. Well, that reminds us of something very similar to an article that appeared a few days ago on the SDS website and talked about removing the director of Finnish television. Well, there was even some phantom Finnish journalist, Vani Vanti or Vanti Vani -- I don't know. In short, there was a great imagination here, too. Well, and so did this reporter later turned out to be missing. In short, the methods of some things are very, very repeated. And then there's the third difference. These newspapers were created before the elections, they did their political task and political purpose, and then they immediately went out, while newspapers such as Good Morning and Journal come out regularly and have no sole political purpose and political purpose. I think and I hope that the commission that will investigate this will be successful; that we will find out whether they were together and in what way politicians with their fingers; how politicians were preparing the ground for this; how the idea leaders, the directors of these newspapers, the financiers, were running the finances, maybe even the authors; and in short, these newspapers had political botts that were hiding behind, I will say, the apparently these Clouds, Vici and similar commonly known names. Those who have performed or have been exploited and, in my opinion, also used to do so are some small players who have been used for great purposes. I'm afraid it's a failure. In short, this is a huge difference, and these comparisons would be totally inappropriate. I think that the commission to be appointed has sufficient tasks and that this needs to be investigated because we must never, ever again, in Slovenia, afford such parallel electoral campaigns or the exploitation of electoral and media legislation. Because there could definitely be a situation where, in fact, the costs for these midwives, the electoral silos never, anywhere and in no customer had to be presented as the costs of the elections, but they were, I will say, the costs they must have paid in various state-owned enterprises, in Mobiles, Telekoms, banks, insurance companies and so on, where people who were somehow forced to finance these squatters were sitting. I hope so, and I am sure that the Commission will prevent this, we will find out how legislation needs to be changed too, so that such anomalies, such as these, I will say, can't come to such pre-election campaigns in such a way. This is what we have to arrange and prepare so that things are transparent. What someone spends - what was said before - on barefoot, pencils, folds and the like, let the customers show and let them see who is behind it and who is paying for it. In fact, we did not know any of these answers from the outsiders, and we do not know him today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u170	The word is "ma'am mag." Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u171	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Under the request for an investigative commission, I signed when the signatures were already being collected and I could have avoided it, but I wanted to sign because I agree that it was necessary to look at what happened to these two specific freebies, not the freebies, but the two; these are the Slovenian Week and Express, which came out in a time-limited, very short cut. In two aspects, I will touch on this issue in my debate: from the point of view of compliance with media legislation and from the point of view of compliance with the electoral campaign legislation. If I do this other thing first. The fact is that the electoral campaign is limited in time and that the parties going to the electoral campaign must show the use of funds. The free men were going out of that time frame. However, it is not possible to overlook the political connotations and views of certain parties, who have also spoken and were able to be listened to. Last but not least, the owner of the Slovenian week who said this - I will not read the whole quote, but the one who will show you where I measure - "But I tell you that for many years I have not read, watched, listened to what is written, shown, told, but what is not. The silence is what hurts, and the silent things hurt those who know about them. Others don't see it, so the Slovenian Week, so the themes you haven't read anywhere so far, because you shouldn't have read them. I know at least 571 journalists who have banned you." Let us now leave aside that he has spoken these words about the 571 journalists and signatories of the letter several times the Prime Minister of the day, that we have heard them again today. But it is a basic professional ethical attitude of up to 571 journalists, who are challenged by someone who owns the Slovenian Week by a professional attitude and who thinks that they do not comply with the media law, which stresses freedom of expression, the free flow of information and the openness of the media because they have different opinions from those that could be read in the Express and in the Slovenian Week. Because they're different content. Well, you see, here's the basic problem. There's a lot to hear. He stopped those two weeks from betraying them. We have heard a lot about the truth, but I must say that one of the Members has a lot of imagination and a lot of perseverance when he constantly repeats some lies that have been denied, but I am sure he will continue to repeat them. He has a little more imagination than that writer in the Slovenian Week who signed Vid Videc. Anyone who has ever looked at a literary theory knows how that name is made. And we've heard that these two weeks have fulfilled the right to information, to information. Well, let's see what the Slovenian Week said about Majda Potrat. On the 3rd page, he discussed that she had not come to the Council II meeting. High school in Maribor. And under a photograph showing fellow Member Mirana Potrèa and Majda Potrát, behind them one of the servants of the National Assembly, it was clear from this photo that they were talking about the amendment because it was a paper sheet, and it said below: "Might Potráta find time to chat with Mirano Porč, but there is no time to attend the meeting of the world of the school." And no one was interested that I then apologized for that meeting of the school council, because I was at a meeting of the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, which at that time discussed investments and problems that were dealt with by centres for those who could not be employed by ordinary work organisations; it was for people with special needs or for persons with disabilities. That's the truth. But this truth didn't interest anyone. And to me, the possibility of enforcing the media right under Article 26 of the Media Law was violated. And that is what must be said and what must be fought! So that if we have some laws laid down, some keep referring to them, we also respect, respect, and realize those laws. And if one of our fellow Members were to act in the opinion, I should probably even pay a charity contribution to the Slovenian Week because the voters elected me anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u172	Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u173	Today, this debate is about political culture and transparency of politics and political parties. After all this debate today, and especially after listening to 15 minutes of Mr Grimes, I really don't think there's any way in which we can compete politically in this room. The political game is part of democracy, and there's nothing wrong with it. The question is whether there is sufficient dignity in this Chamber and especially on the right side of the political spectrum, a fundamental human dignity to compete in a fair manner, in a way that respects the truth and some fundamental human relations that should also apply between us. I believe in ethical politics, the strong ethical essence of politics; a policy that will understand that the fight for the cloud is not all about what is going on in politics, but that it is mainly about policy that we are responsible for public affairs and that we are doing a lot of good for people. It is therefore necessary to operate ethically with authority, but not to be abused by those who once receive it, most often by the naked personal goals or goals of the political group to which it belongs. That's why I agree with this investigation. I'm also among those who know how to read a message from a failed investigative commission. In fact, I am reserved for everyone we have set up in this mandate in the National Assembly, but under this investigative committee I have signed my signature; because I want this story to be clarified and I hope that, with the course of this investigation, we will also reach that point in the National Assembly and in Slovenian politics, when we say that this policy is no longer so low! This policy is no longer so low! And when we listen to almost incredible stories in the National Assembly many times, I really wonder where dignity is. Where is respect for the national coat of arms which looks at us in this hall, where respect for the Slovenian flag and the people who stand for this flag. And I wonder how far some of you are actually willing to go. And I don't care if you're lying to me, I understand that as part of a political struggle. But I can't believe how deep you're willing to lie to yourself. One debater is working first on why we deal with this story, because these freebies no longer exist. And that's exactly the point. These freemen ceased to exist the day their purpose was exhausted and this was on 21 September 2008. For those of you who don't remember what happened that beautiful Sunday in Slovenia, I hope, the hope was reborn: it was an election day when the freebies exhausted their purpose by simply ending that dirty and ugly election campaign. Let me speculate a little bit myself. Whenever I talk in the National Assembly, I try to talk about facts, but if I don't talk about facts, I talk about very personal impressions and views on politics and political processes. In doing so, I find it difficult to understand how some can so knowingly turn certain facts into guidelines for what they want to prove in a political context and how deeply they deceive themselves and people. I think so, too, and this is part of my speculation that I'm going to afford this time that the freebies are just one of the branches of another affair. Allow me to refer to a medium recently published Saturday's number of 6.7 million that an organization is supposed to receive. Has part of these funds disappeared in this dirty, untransparent and false campaign that was clearly part of the electoral strategy and the campaign of the Slovenian Democratic Party? That is why I supported this investigation, and I hope that this will be one of those investigations that we will be able to bring to an end in order to clear up the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u174	Mr Grimes, as I've heard, has listened well. He hasn't mentioned you by name. But if you think what he said belongs to you, will I give you a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u175	It is also said to be a hate speech by a respected chairman. When you read this tape, you'll see that he specifically gave me a last name and mentioned that he was expecting a ferplay. Of course, he put all my words in a negative context. What was I really talking about? I also spoke, among other things, of the existence of a taboo of this, dear fellow Franzež, to answer you in this part. And I'm quoting an FDV textbook that says: what it's not in some media tells you more about the editorial policy of these media than what's written about and how it's written. And a fair play in Slovenian politics, respected by ladies and gentlemen, will experience at least twice the story I told in the National Assembly that it will come to the headlines of the media because it would deserve it because of a case of extreme hate speech. What's this all about? At one of the last pre-election meetings in the Municipality of Kranj, which was formally organised as a regional meeting on pensioners, I merely quoted Mr Gaspari from the magnetogram and showed this magnetogram when he was extremely negative about the ownership of pensioners over the fund somewhere in the last decade, and he vowed to stop it if they had the capital they would have. There's been a scandal, "you should kill him, kill him, take his word, throw him out, we didn't kill them enough in Kočevsko Horn, in a cave with him, rot a dog" and so on. There are at least seven journalists here, and I can list the others from Mr. Cenet Zapletnik, if you'd like. There are dozens of those who were present there, witnesses to this, all those who were in this Chamber, quite a bit, but this extreme case of hostile speech at the meeting, for which one of the officials responsible for his organization later informed me that it was first thought of as a party meeting of the SD, respected sir, and then gave this hope that this would be a more meeting of the pensioners' societies in order to achieve greater breadth. When this hate speech is given an appropriate echo of public opinion and also of sanctions, because it would deserve them, it will then be a fair play in Slovenian politics. But as long as we warn and warn about such things and no one talks about them, no one writes about them, no one sanctions them, but everyone turns around again and again or creates an image in public that is completely contrary to this indisputable and in court to the evidentiary fact that I am talking about [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u176	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u177	Farsa Theme [[...]] [[....]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u178	The end of the replica. Mr Grimes, I have given you the conviction that you respect the Chairman, the replica of what Mr Frangež said, and that you will also return the replica in this sense. You used my goodness to give you a replica in this case, and you were saying something completely different. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Right, Branko's a real artist, but let's just leave it at that. I think in this story about the investigative commission, when we talk about freebies, every word is superfluous. It was clear to any child or to those who were not involved in politics, then before the elections, what was the aim or purpose of the publishers of these free-of-charges. This is to keep Janez Janša in power. Thank God these freebies didn't help him stay in power either. And thank God, too, after accepting the past government's adoption of the obvious laws that are causing us problems today, he failed. I'm glad those freebies quit, too. Unlike my colleagues, I have no problem in the election campaign if the anti-candidates are sharp, offensive and so on. These freebies, too, were very aggressive and sharp. And if instead of Express wrote SDS Express or the Slovenian SDS Week, he wouldn't have any problem with that. But you've been hiding behind some companies, I'm afraid. You have this accident or happiness that I know very well Robert Trcko, who was my classmate in primary school, was also a state champion in the goal of a spear, an athlete in the true sense of the word, I will say, an athlete for "capo down", but he has no connection with the editorship, has no connection in life with any company. And I also know that board where Zame-tek was written, where it was attached, because, unfortunately, I was a neighbor in these Radice. Otherwise, I was glad that a new company had been set up and that there would be a lot of employees, that journalists would be running down that little street, and they would be writing that they were going to meet. Unfortunately, even when I wanted a journalist to come to Radeče to show me what I did for Radeče, there was no journalist. So also Robbie, who founded Zame-tek, who published newspapers daily - there was not one journalist in Radeč in life on this topic! Next thing. You all wonder who the authors are or who the editors are, Vid Videc and so on. No, no, it was the municipal boards of the SDS. SDS Municipal Committees. Branko, yes! Unfortunately, Branko, you will also have to accept this when I show you the document when the municipal committees wrote to you, wrote to Progresia, and coordinated the articles on what to write. And then the presidents of the SDS municipal committees wrote back, "No, no, no, that's not good, it's a bit of a fix." And it's gotten better. Unfortunately, you also have some presidents of the SDS Municipal Committees who fall in documents from their purses. These documents are then found on the road when honest and smart people bring them to some people who have them. And we will prove this and show it in various investigative commissions, and it will not be difficult to determine and show what was wrong in this matter. And once again, I have nothing against thousands and thousands of flyers, cheerleading and so on. But let's look each other in the face and not hide behind some things. I don't blame the SDS, no, I blame the directors of companies, the supervisors of companies, but more likely the marketing directors who gave money for such nonsense. Because if I want to look for sponsors, then I'm the president of the social democrats' community organisation Radeče to get some to sponsor - even at that time - SD flyers, I'm afraid there's no one. And this should be asked of supervisors and directors why they were giving money to a particular political party. And once again, there's nothing wrong with this election campaign, nothing. I've been mentioned here, too, so I have this paper at home, and I'll show it easily, but let's face it, it wasn't all right. After all, people in the elections noticed it anyway, and even did it, I'll say the end and then they're lost. We can lose half in two years, but we'll lose because of our work, not because of the games you've played. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u181	I thought Mr Barovic would further warm me up to this debate, but I am not so lucky because he is not here at the moment. But what should actually be said today in this debate, if anything, because the act on the determination of a parliamentary inquiry is a fact. The more the question is, why are they so afraid in the SD? They're ashamed of these investigations. [[...]] [[A warning from the bench.]] In SDS, yes, in SDS! [[...]] Maybe I ate another S, but I thought, believe me, if you don't believe anything, you can. I meant SDS. Because the following is also important in this statement, because if you have published free of charge applications for entry into the SDS, it would probably be good to check that what you wrote down at the time is really why they do not enter the SDS. We know, yeah! We don't care where our path goes, we know what we are and what we want, the horizon is wider than what we see today - and now it's almost two years from now. We'd probably have something to say about how this horizon expanded. The situation has changed, I believe that after this term it will be better than after yours and these freebies in fact - I don't know, they were recruiting for the client, you probably paid for these publications. From what I read, it is impossible to understand that the costs charged for publications were such that they would also cover the costs of issuing these freebies. In fact, there is something that is also being fought by what is fundamental in all these matters, that someone wants a favor, order it, so you ordered these free people to do exactly the same and so propaganda, also publish an approach statement and do it for your own account. But the problem is that nowhere can you see that you paid anything for this, except that where your people were sitting, they were owed -- I'm talking about public companies, I'm talking about companies, where, of course, property is also predominantly state-owned and where they obviously had to, part of the money also imprecisely, imprecisely, to at least order and get an announcement for this, so that your goals could still be achieved with these freebies. It's not like that. You're saying today that the password - you want to stop the truth. It's pure hypocrisy. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Finally, in this society, it would be right to hold some universal values, such as truth, the ethics of public words and so on. From all that we have been able to track, it can be concluded that there was an abuse, such as a position in certain companies, in managing public money, that there were abuses of public servants, when they had to write, for example, some journalists write in the media, some journalists in the U.S.A. who were public servants, for alleged contracting authorities; and the contracting authority is obviously not known here! Only this connection is found when you have your application here and where your paths are going, which are not true and that these horizons need to be expanded and so on because you can't see far enough. Why don't we talk about this on this committee and get to the truth? Who needs to be told, Mr. Zorn, to stop the truth? Who? Speaking of which, it has nothing to do with me misquoting you. That's not a replica! It's just the wrong line, it's just the wrong line, if you answer me, it's a good question, but otherwise it doesn't have anything to do with the replica if I mention you. Only if I misquote you, but you said here about the pay phone today, "Your password is: Stop the truth. Obviously, you are afraid and opposed to this truth, although, as we said at the outset, this debate is completely out of the question, because what the Commission has to do, we cannot, in any case, stop here today and also stop by voting on the establishment of this commission of inquiry. Today it has also been said how we can understand this in the light of some legislation: the Law on Election Campaign, the Law on Political Parties, the Law on Elections and the like. Yeah, that's something to look at, too! For there is undoubtedly a clear definition of how much money can be used in an election campaign. These are things that are regulated by law, but if you are publishing in these newspapers that are no longer available, such texts and accession statements, it means that you are part of this money that has not been shown in time - at least I have not seen in the report that we had to make in all the parties - where we are in the election campaign and how much money we have committed. We can ask ourselves today - I read in some media that it's 24. 11. Finnish money and free money, that is 2009, then unrolling the bench, where exactly some people are to do this business and so on. But, as it is said, the Commission of Inquiry is an opportunity to clarify these matters, to tell the Slovenian public what is true and what is not true and to prevent in the future all the sidelines of the next elections, which will already be in the autumn, and the spending of money, especially of taxpayers on the one hand, when it comes to paying public servants, who then write and campaign for one party, as well as to try to do for all the same conditions. For all those who will go to the elections: for each mayoral candidate, for each council candidate and later for other elections as well. I have advocated this for a long time in order to regulate this funding exclusively from public money, transparent and no other parallel routes such as these free publications in free-of-charge. It's a little hard to understand, because I've always been taught that nothing is free, that in the end every lunch has to be paid and everything a man has to afford, or a client or anyone, unless you have the leverage you set them up. And since there is so much mystery and some unexplained background in this regard, it is only right that we come to the day with this truth, Mr Zorn. And it's not a password. Let's stop the truth. Let's come with the truth every day. Anyone who knows anything is obliged by his conscience and by his laws in the country to tell when it comes to awkwardness. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Even in dogs, Mr. Chernač, even in dogs. [[...]] I've heard from you before about this. It was only after you were assigned to go in one direction as a herd and all of you were attacked in the same way, only then did you join this story. Let's clear everything up in this case, and in any case, individually. There's no shame in this. That's exactly what I'm worried about you triggering some things. We also sat here late the night before yesterday - or what else it was; two three days ago. Even more! The affairs of 30 years ago must be brought into the current debate in order to get rid of all that, because it could still flood a day. Yesterday or today, I read: €39 million has disappeared in a firm - where there is a strong advocate. I don't know, in the sea, in the sand, in the guests at Moscow, in the taigas, I don't know where it went. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a speech! These aren't things that we could just yell about having an affair under the rug. Clear one by one - and the other. This must be our guide and truth, ethics, even public words. I stand by myself for every word, you can trust me if we can't go check it out. Now show this in this parliamentary investigation! I would really like to know if this ad could probably not be cheap because there were no other sources for these free women, whether they were paid or not, and how you expanded the horizons with all these new knowledge, including on the basis of these two newspapers they were writing. Just don't point your finger now: Stop the Journal [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] ‘ Good morning and other things, for to look like - I read a record of what they found out, how much something was worth and who paid or contributed something [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u182	Thank you very much. You want a replica, fix the wrong entry? Mr. Alexander Zorn.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, one of my favorite opposing Members, misquoted me three times. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Twice just, I'm sorry. And he was misquoting that, because I wasn't even talking about the truth, let alone stopping it. It's, like, a fix. The other thing is a little bit worse, and it's procedural. He said, "Why are the SDS members resisting the investigation?" As a messenger of the parliamentary group, I specifically supported the establishment of an investigative commission, and this is wrong and I do not want this to remain. None of the other Members of my Group resisted the establishment of this Commission. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Procedurally. But be careful, procedurally with a procedural proposal, if not, I'll have to stop you. So you know in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u185	Today is this session, I must say, really guided in an interesting way. On the one hand, one is constantly reaching for the word - even to me, the chairman has three times reached for the word - the other is allowed incredible rhetorical failures. If I just quote now, now it's been said [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u186	Mr. Grimes, first warning. This is not procedural, this is debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u187	Then I propose, Mr President, and it is procedural to remind those who in this way communicate that they are offensive to others, to their interlocutors in the Chamber. If you've been commanded to speak, it means that someone has no will, then it's insulting. Just like before with a colleague from SD who said that the SDS committee presidents had been texting and writing. Excuse me, I'm also the chairman of a committee, namely the City Committee in Kranj. I didn't write to anyone, I didn't write to anyone like that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u188	Mr. Grimes, second warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u189	And I don't know what anyone else was doing. [[...]] If you have such a thing, it can be cleared up, but you don't just talk like that and not throw all the stuff into "one porridge." Your patronage would have been in place if you hadn't spoken to someone who even experienced this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u190	Mr Grimes, I'm going to take your word away from you because you abused the procedural proposal, you abused the institution of the procedural proposal, so I took your word away. Thank you very much. There's no replica to that, there was a procedural proposal, there's no replica on this thing, I'm not gonna give you a replica. We continue the debate. The word is Dara Lavtijar Bebler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I wanted to thank myself, and now I'm sorry that Dr. Clavore's Vice-President of the National Assembly is no longer in the Chamber. I wanted to thank him for condemning the level of debate on the tragedy that took place on February 2nd this year, which he seems to have obtained in the National Assembly. That's it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u192	Please, peace in the hall! My friend, please don't disturb the debate in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u193	This level of debate on this tragedy, which seems to have received domestic rights in the National Assembly, is indeed unworthy, unacceptable, and I am really glad that the President has interrupted the SDS speaker in this regard. I would only remind you that it is unacceptable to discuss these things in this way. Let's just think that the deceased had a mother, a father, his relatives, and that's not how it works, even if you're Members of the National Assembly. In doing so, it was even called for help that thank God we have a medium like Fire Report, because otherwise we could not be honest about these things. Yes, God help, if God is, call for help such a medium as Fire Report! Then this fact does not need to be commented, because such a reference and call for help in itself tells everything and, of course, too. I am also a signatory to this requirement for the establishment of an investigative commission on the matter we are talking about today. I believe that this Commission of Inquiry will be one of the few that have so far met the right purpose of establishing a parliamentary investigation institute in all the mandates of the National Assembly. By the way, since 1992, 22 investigative commissions have been set up, if I do not take into account the first mandate of the National Assembly, where the predecessor of today's SDS was a member of the government coalition, the fact that most of the commissions have been requested in cooperation with SDS Members: 11 out of 16 is undeniable. It's been 11 since the 16th. Perhaps someone will say that it is normal, as the SDS has been predominantly in opposition to Slovenian parliamentaryism so far. And the parliamentary investigation is intended in principle to be an institution of control and determination of the political responsibility of officials in the hands of the opposition. Indeed, this time we are setting up a commission of inquiry by the coalition Members. Today, we have heard some comments that seem, at least to me, completely depressed, that the main purpose of establishing an investigative commission is to have a substantially higher personal income for the chairman or chairman. I think those who said that should look in the mirror and see their faces there, wonder. However, we are confident that the Commission of Inquiry will provide us with answers to a number of relevant questions about the political and legal culture of today's opposition and, more importantly, it will answer questions about how the former authorities have abused and denied the rule of law, directly infringe electoral legislation, particularly the law on the financing of political parties, media legislation. More and more, I think that at the end of this commission of inquiry, we will have to cut down or we will also need penal legislation. We may even find out about the names of some of the famous authors who advertised in these freebies. And maybe we'll go directly to one of the authors with the question of finally telling us whether God is or isn't God. Because I think that each of us would actually like to come up with this answer. In some of the introductory presentations today we have also had an opportunity to hear a lot of sarcasm, which has only convinced me personally more about my support for this investigative commission. Otherwise, there were also a few bitter and sarcastic, I think impolite, at the expense of a respected psychiatrist. But the latter could explain to you when and why a man in distress and despair serves sarcasm. Well, I sincerely wish that this commission of inquiry could get to the relevant data and find out where the money came from. Maybe it'll be like "collateral damage" [[collateral damage in noodles]] has also clarified more about why the money was running out to obtain the appropriate configuration of military armoured personnel, why some Interpol depots were established, why we are witnessing certain exits and withdrawals in the prosecution types. And so on and so forth. In short, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have very well understood some of today's sarcastic tone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u195	Thank you so much for saying that. Good-bye, everybody! At the outset, I would like to say that I support the investigation, and I would warn all those who accused us of being against the investigation that neither of the speakers has said that they object to the investigation or that they have anything against the investigation. But you've talked a lot about things that don't really have much to do with it, or you're asking us where we're willing to go, how deep you're telling us about the truth, and at the same time you're accusing us of things that, to the best of my knowledge, we can be accused of a crime or anything like that just by a court of law. You've made so many accusations about affairs here, I don't know what. There is obviously a philosophy with us that those who appear to be guilty of something must prove that they are not guilty instead of having to prove that the accuser is guilty. Let me read just a few of the addresses from freebies you mention: Šentvisko peslovnik, Ljubljana's best neighbor, National celebration will be held in Cyprus, Preventing Shrotko's plans, Inflation is a problem all over Europe, extraordinary situation due to immigrants, Drunk and without exam, Green Energy, City, worth a visit [[talks about Paris]] , Prince Caspaed in Bovec, Described saves Maribor, Grab a bike, otherwise there is really some column by Dr. Matey Makarovič - this probably doesn't make you any trouble - well, great! - Probably an interview with Drago Jancar. Then forward addresses: Tacoons are not from yesterday, Privatization by choice, All set for mosque, Innocent, beautiful, smart [[That's not what any of our kind said, but from your kind about your current minister.]] , The price of dwellings has split in half, July in Slovenia without inflation, The goal is to make us all better [[This was an interview with Dr. Žigo Turk, Minister of the Government of the time, but in the free shop Good morning, I can read an interview every day, especially with Higher Education Minister Gregor Golobic.]] and beyond, Information Award, Country of Beer, Chocolate and Potato [[talks about Brussels]] , Knight of the theme of the record hunt, as many drops, as many colossals [[of Judoist Urska Žolnar]] , Different walk [[where they invite to exercise in nature]] 'Saming also in the summers and so on. In short, very few political themes, very few of the problematic topics you cited. For my taste, we can read this daily in many newspapers. Some of you have been saying that if someone is accusing someone, they should do it on the basis of arguments, and if someone is discrediting them, they should do it on the basis of arguments. I have already mentioned a number of things in which you accuse us or individuals without anyone submitting any document without arguing what anyone is saying. My colleague Franco Juri said six months ago, "If we were to work, if we were to direct the work and energy that we have, of course, in the real world, not to such proposals and to set up such unnecessary and expensive commissions." I am pleased that he has now changed his mind and is concerned about the 2 million who have been spent on the so-called two freebies you want to investigate, and nothing worries him about the 500 million you will spend this year just on the interest on the loans you have rented. Some of you have also stated that the allegations in these free of charge were unrealistic. We know that there is media legislation that allows correction, and anyone can write a correction. This is also what we are told every time we get upset about an article in the newspaper: "You have a chance to deny it, give the demanta and goodbye and everything will be fine!" And where there is no signed author, colleague Franco Juri, who comes from these kinds, should know that the responsible editor is responsible if he does not sign under the article. Now, just a little bit more about how six months ago some of you were talking about setting up investigative commissions and what you thought about that. We have heard a number of insults and various advices from a variety of sources, and I have already mentioned from my colleague Yuri - an unnecessary dear commission. Luka Juri said that if there was documentation with some more or less clear evidence in view of what was presented, there should be something to take this documentation to the prosecution in the form of an indictment. And abuse the role of the commission of inquiry. Apparently, he's using her now, too, because he signed under it and didn't get the paperwork and took it to the D.A. in the form of an indictment. Mr. Borut Saiovic also advised us, "the way under our feet and the prosecution." I don't know why he didn't do it himself, but he signed himself under the motion, and he said that all these investigative commissions have one and an important common property, that they've already spent a lot of money. He told us to give ourselves a soul if we think that this country is the most important topic in times of recession and economic crisis. Apparently, he's given his soul now, and he's signed the proposal to set up. And the first to be signed under a proposal for an investigative commission, i.e. to set up an investigative commission. In the event that we proposed such committees, she read to us or laughed at us that we had problems with the long name of the commission of inquiry. Unfortunately, she also failed to write the title of her commission of inquiry much shorter. She told us that such an extensive establishment of investigative commissions meant good business and that from the eight presidents of the working bodies we would then get four more presidents of investigative commissions who would, let's be honest, 'in the same rank, with the same privileges and with similar pay. I'll give it to you." Nice! Looks like he's having a good time now, too. To conclude, she also told us that our flour will not be bread, so we look forward to seeing what bread will be made of her flour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Melita Župevc spoke as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In those hours, so many flat-rate charges were made. Obviously, it was also for us to give just like that, on the average of an accusation. Maybe they'll ask the most questions. Under this investigative committee, 45 Members and Members of Parliament have been signed, not one Member. 45. That's why 45 questions. First time. Whose idea was the Slovenian Week and Express? Another time. Why were they actually established? Third time. How is it possible to explain the coincidence that they came out and sank before the last elections? Fourth time. Who were their political partners? Fifth. Who actually edited it? Six. Who actually wrote? It's a week. Who and how did he dictate? Eight. Where were the actors meeting? Nine. Who was the fear of being responsible for hiding behind the pseudonyms? Ten years. Why did she advertise only SDS among political parties? Eleventh time. Why do we only find accession declarations to join the SDS? It's the 12th question. Why have some companies advertised in direct or direct state ownership? Thirteen. Has anyone put pressure on these companies? Fourteen. Did advertisers have the same advertising conditions? Fifteen. How did the gym teacher have time to edit a spineless man who had a load of over 300,000? Sixteen. Who's hiding behind the phantom advertisers? Seventeen. At what price did she, say, advertise everything? Eighteen. Who are the right people for mailboxes? Nineteen. Who will or has already covered hundreds of thousands of Euros of outstanding liabilities? Twenty. Who are the players in the octopus for free? Twenty-one. What policy networks and economies were behind? Twenty-two. Who's the real Gregor Kovacich? Thirty-three. Who is the infamous Vida Vidaec? Forty-four. Who's hiding behind the name Jerney Novak? Twenty-five. Who was hiding under the name of Marco Zupan? Sixteen. Who met on Titova 2a in Maribor? Seventy-seven. Who is the new owner of Progresia, why did he buy a company full of debts? Eighty. What was the actual load of freebies Slovenian weekly and Express? Nineteen. How could the companies that issued them survive if they did not have sufficient resources? Thirty. Who is the phantom investor from abroad that Mr. Lashbacher was talking about? It's the 30th question. What should the audit at the Post Office of Slovenia show, but it is not? Twenty-twenty. Who all and how in the story Slovenian Week and Express compensated and how? Thirty-three. Is it really possible that the articles were directed exclusively against the left political option? Forty-four. Why did the competent authorities not act in cases of serious violations of the media, serious breaches of the media law and media law? Thirty-five. Why were some deliberately wrongly referring to the laws in force? Sixteenth. How was the miseditation given in the media’s report mistakenly? Seventy-seven. What e-mail address did the press question come from? Eighty-eight. What did the Tax Administration find about the Slovenian Week and Express case? Ninety-nine. What did the police find so far? Forty. How could a newspaper editor with more than 300,000 copies and not write a single newspaper article in his life? Twenty-four. Why didn't the Slovenian Week and Express publish any corrections? Twenty-four. How can a freebie come out without a single ad? Thirty-four. How can a fortune teller represent the main advertiser of the freeman? Forty-four. How can the president of a party use the same phrases as they were written the day before the article in Express was published? Fifty-five. question. Last but not least - why does SDS actually have problems with this investigation if everything was so beautifully transparent? Those were the questions. No charges. No flat-rate conclusion. Just questions, banal questions. Banal issues. But the answers to these banal questions will tell you a lot of things, they'll tell you everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u198	Thank you very much. The word is Franci Kek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. Interesting questions. Just before, colleague Jeraj walked through one issue of the Slovenian Week, in a way, czech, because they are not such political addresses. There's a little talk here about marmalade, but I don't know what else. But she pointed to a very strategically well-designed matter. In fact, if we remember anything, we had one article or two that magnified the SDS, perhaps another. We had three who hit after the opposition, but then we had a little man, cooking recipes, a little sport, some singer. In fact, all these other articles would give a person more of the impression that those former ones were so much more credible, because they were still, probably, but it wasn't stupid. The Slovenian weekly, as well as the Express, appeared in the pre-election period and immediately ceased to emerge. The then coalition, now the opposition, claims it has nothing to do with it. The content was critical, largely malicious to the then opposition and was substantively favoured by the then authorities, especially the SDS. The SDS argues that these freebies have nothing to do with them. Direct or direct state-owned companies have committed several hundred thousand euros to both companies in any form of advertising, including in such a way that the advertiser did not need to be shown free of charge to both companies, especially the Slovenian Week. The SDS say they have nothing to do with it. In the public, the estimated value of the issue and postal distribution of both free-of-chargers is around EUR 2 million. The freebies were free. The money from the adverts to cover everything was very little. Where'd the rest of the money go for the handout? Is it possible that any economic operator, a gym teacher, would have an interest in doing so with the anticipated loss? SDS says they have nothing to do with it. In the presentation of the positions we heard who all connected to the SDS party should coordinate the preparation of the weekly issue of the Slovenian Week and Express. SDS says they have nothing to do with it. The SDS also claimed for nine months that Ultra’s loans were unsecured or poorly secured. This and all the other eyewitnesses to Gregor Golobic proved inaccurate when the files were presented on the investigative committee. Who's lying here?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u201	Thank you very much. In today's debate on the establishment of the commission of inquiry, we were able to hear two main criticisms: why investigate only two freemen, because there are others, and why challenge the content of the articles, if there is freedom of the press, as is the case in the end, for all the media, but here we forget the important differences which completely deny these two arguments. It is true that there are other freemen, but they exist all the time, have real editors, seats and real journalists. It is also true that we must not challenge the right of someone to freely express his journalistic opinion. But elsewhere these people sign and answer for their words. Freedom of speech is closely linked to responsibility for these words that have been freely spoken. If this were disputed, they would have long since requested an investigation, for example, of a magazine called Democracy, a magazine owned by the SDS political party. But it works transparently, it's responsible for its writings and - you won't believe it! - even the editorship exists. And we don't have a problem with a magazine like this. However, the Express and the Slovenian Week were indisputable only during the pre-election campaign and put out immediately after, and under their articles were signed by people who do not exist at all, thus invented names. I got a problem with that! In these two shrubs, two large rabbits are stuck so large that it is not difficult to notice that the earrings are largely marked by SDS. The great dispute between these two freemen is also a way of financing. The magazines cost millions of euros. Who's been financing this? Mostly, if we watch ads, state-owned companies. We can conclude, I conclude, that the state-owned companies, which must have done so at the orders of their owners of the Janša government, were in breach of the legislation and indirectly financed the pre-election campaign of the SDS. Now, my fellows, you're pretending that this isn't the case. You are aware that it is just a coincidence that just a few months before the elections, two freemen were created for virtually all households in the country, which accidentally wrote agitpropovski for SDS and spat falsely for everything that was not checked on the right. In the event that it was financed by state-owned companies, that the authors of the articles did not exist at all and that they accidentally ceased to come out the day after the elections. Of course, we all believe it's just a coincidence. You know, colleagues and colleagues, we also have a municipal trumpet in Cyprus, but at least Mayor Popovic doesn't cheat and openly admits that it's a newspaper he wants. And you don't even have a spine to admit it. The fact that the newspapers stopped immediately after the elections and that the companies immediately shut down also has a different situation. This has happened so that all compensation claims that flew on the bulletin and could be very successful could not continue - the behaviour of the most obstinate tax collector. Otherwise, the financial abuse of state money for SDS purposes did not occur only in the case of Express and the Slovenian Week. Let us not forget that at the last call for media pluralisation in the time of the Janša government, Simoniti's cultural ministry in this call has allocated the most funds from all media in Slovenia - you know who? The company Nova obzora d.o.o., which is 46% owned - do you know who? SDS political parties. Distasteful. Too bad we can't turn history in the other direction and check what would happen to two freebies if the SDS won the election. It would probably continue to emerge and disintegrate, soon there would be only such freemen and finally, in the style of Goebbels' propaganda or Orwell's novel 1984, only one truth that could be effectively defended by the Slovenian democratic world of the Inquisition, as in the Middle Ages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Anton Kampush has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u203	Honorable President, colleagues and colleagues. I am a co-signatory and, of course, I support the investigative commission for a number of reasons. Of course, it is necessary to determine what is the real background of the freebies. It is necessary to determine how they affected the elections and how they affected the outcome. We need to figure out who financed it. It is necessary to determine what is going on with those companies which are state-owned and have been involved to a large extent in these freeholders. Of course, I also understand that there have been many slanders, many lies, within them. I can make sure, publicly, that within these articles, including about me, lies, untruths, which readers and readers have recognized, have presented themselves. It is true, however, that the issue of freemen was exclusively intended for disqualifications, slanders and, of course, that was their greatest purpose. But the main message I wanted to say today would be: the focus of free people. Where was the focus of the freebies? I must admit that he was primarily directed to those or those people in the countryside who, according to my information, can't get through a single newspaper. So, families who can't get through any newspaper for different reasons. These families were under a lot of pressure from freemen and because they were getting freebies, they were getting unilateral information coming from these freebies. When I myself wanted to express a protest and deny the lies that were inside these freebies, not only about my personality, but also some other colleagues - I could not happen to run into a journalist who would have been signed, I did not even run into a responsible editor! And today, I am very sorry to hear from some parties, in particular, that media legislation is making a request for an urgent correction, which has not happened to these free-for-allers. But it is true that these freebies, as far as I have read them, have brought great praise at the expense of good work, much positive, members of the SDS; or vice versa. And we were given many lies and slanders - on the other hand, other customers. My opinion is certainly such that these freemen were not written by any journalists, but by individuals, even within local environments. I even heard today that the driving force was the municipal committees, I don't know, maybe that's even true. Of course, this has been happening all over Slovenia. I also got clues, and I am sure that this investigative commission will also reach out to those funding routes, as today it has also been said that some free-of-charge companies have been established in Austria. However, there are many of our state-owned companies that do much business with the Austrian neighbours, and I am sure that, sooner or later, the documents relating to the transaction will not be able to hide over time, and probably sooner or later there will be a revelation - not just these, but also the various other affairs that have not yet been explored. I'm sure someone's gonna have a headache sooner or later. That is how I look forward to these investigations from this context and, of course, I support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u204	Thank you very much. The word is Marian Krizman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to explain to Tonet first because he could not remember where the money went from Inter-European when the director was one of the prominent members of the SDS and friends of Janez Janša: although he had that destination where the money was exported from the coast, and from the port of Koper and so on and so on and so on. On this occasion, it would be very wise and wise for this Commission to determine how much money was spent for such and similar freemen from the Slovenian Istria, which was robbed and destroyed. For the second time in history, it was so plundered and destroyed as it is now when the SDS ruled and with its skilled managers and directors brought businesses so far away that they are selling real estate today and lowering wages for workers. That's what you have in every newspaper, every newspaper that's been paid for. So these are the facts. And if this committee were to deal with these financial flows, where all this money went, it would be very nice to know. But it would also be very wise and wise to return him to where he came from, that we would not forgive the workers, and I hope that this will also be proved. This commission could be a good tool in all this. The Commission will be set up, in my opinion, also because there was too much going on. It's over the edge, it's in mockery of the Slovenian nation, it's, I'd say, really something amazing that you enjoyed when you were in power. It's really something amazing, this world has never seen. I believe that these things will really have to be brought to an end. As much of an affair as you've had in the years 1990s, 1991 until today, because that's a monster! And I hope that these affairs will slowly and consistently clear up, that then we will have a clean customer who will come out of it healthy, clean, no affair. What you did the day before yesterday, when you mistreated everyone, the Slovenian people as their electorate, that is to say, to the President of the State, because we are sitting here all those who were elected, because we have not applied to serve in the National Assembly. That's what you're saying today when we talk about freebies. I'll tell you when the households in Koper got this, they all said, "Here comes Janšev's newspaper again." Please! And who do you think you're going to paint by playing tricks on, and you think he wrote that, I don't know who, some "avet." Someone was just doing it, maybe that god you have all along through your mouth, and of course you had nothing to do with it. It's time for you to start thinking a little bit more seriously, and it would be time to join forces and start helping solve problems in this country, not continue to create them. [[The ad in the hall.]] Of course, my dear Lord, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u206	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u207	The old problems need to be cleared up so that the good news can move forward. [[...]] Don't think at the market you have all the chance to go shopping for cabbages and potatoes on Saturday, tell stories and talk [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u208	Mr. Crossman! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u209	Thus, I think it would be very wise and wise of you to have some very good and capable people among you to help the Government and all of us together to get out of this crisis. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u210	Please, peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u211	We're at the market. Why would anyone go crazy when a man's telling the truth? As a positive person, I invite you to cooperate more, I invite you to start thinking positively and to start creating new values and to stop swindling and to help this committee resolve a new affair, and these are the freebies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr Grims, but I warn you, if there is a substantive discussion, I will take your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u213	Please, Mr President, if you would just call on the honourable Member to explain how we can help if, at one sitting alone, 63 of our proposals have been rejected without one exception, even those who would not stand and not alone tolar. How else can I help you? That's why [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u214	Thank you, Mr Grimes. I will not take this procedural proposal of yours into consideration. Thank you very much. Andrey Magain has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u215	Good-bye! I support the establishment of an investigative commission, which must also look at this mailbox; in Slovenia, "cassels", probably everything from transition was huge: such and different, large, small, red, black, white, and real fake collectors. It's in those fake packs that we need to look at, not to find ourselves in them, but to find out who put them in. I agree, however, that new collectors will also appear and that this is the continuity of our political scene. It may also be necessary to look at Tromosts in this container by a company from Liechtenstein that buys a health home on the site. However, as I say, these collectors are large and have different colors. To prove that there was no link between the political centres and the operators and those who were winding up the collectors, this was already almost inconceivable, since it was with little common sense to say that it was a matter of network connections. Unfortunately, there are several types of network connections in Slovenia. According to my understanding, protagonists, ideologies of such methods were based on the belief that media pluralism was not guaranteed in Slovenia. This assessment may even be true, but how to achieve this media pluralism. I objected by myself at the time of the transition that the so-called Socialist Unions were then somehow commercialised, privatized, and came into the hands of certain management and political circles. The Socialist Unions should essentially support, abolish or in some way transform them into public newspapers, and so capital and political lobbies have taken over them. The sale of Mercator shares was also linked to the acquisition of Del's editorial office. This too probably does not need to be demonstrated in particular because things are so transparent, so visible. The purpose does not devote money, we have heard repeatedly in Parliament, and those who invoke Christian ethics should know that. In order to ensure greater media pluralism, these funds should not be used. For how, then, is it legitimate to speak of other collectors who are back on the scene today if you are using these methods yourself? If you stage these events yourself and somehow even defend them. I end with what I have also said in the middle: the purpose is not to devote the means to the use of illegal means to circumvent the Electoral Campaign Act and other legislation is evident, so I do not think anyone will object to a thorough investigation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u216	Thank you very much. The word has a Black Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u217	Dear colleagues and colleagues. What the ruling coalition will do within this commission of inquiry could most simply be said to be dealing with last year's snow. Clearly, this panic and the pain of those ruling is so great that they are willing to devour the principles that they have recently provided and advocated in the National Assembly. This is about the media monopoly, but not in the context of what will take place through this investigative commission. The Slovenian Democratic Party has never been a media monopoly in this country. This monopoly will continue to be protected, even through this investigative commission, which will explore a small intervention into this media monopoly, by those who are somehow the backbone of this monopoly. Remember, not long ago, one large part of this media field has been dominated until recently by a member of the Social Democrats - the Work, the Evening and all the editions that are in this connection, now that this story has passed under the state bank, this half is somehow divided between SD and Really. The second part, very important, is the Diary, the Sunday Diary and everything else related to it, and Mr Petan, a member of the LDS. And it is normal that any intervention that attempts to create some democratic space in the media field is very disturbing, especially for those who now rule, who represent a transitional left. It would normally be normal for them to find clues in one way or another for all those who think differently and those who wish to express their opinions. You know that joke about the dog that ran from east in west Berlin across the wall, and they asked him, "Why did you run away, didn't they give you food?" "They gave it to me." "Didn't they give you a drink?" "They gave it to me." And they said, "It was exactly the same on the other side, why did you do it?" And he said, "You know what, sometimes I wanted to bark a little." And this barking is disturbing barking in this country in the sense that he's trying to say what he's thinking. And this little intervention that happened in this monopoly is extremely disturbing for some. The Berlin Wall, of course, still stands in the heads of some who are sitting in the National Assembly, is increasingly solid, which, last but not least, appeared in the debates when we discussed European Parliament resolutions condemning totalitarianism. At that time, we saw how strong this structure was, and not least recently, when we were talking about the constitutional indictment of the President of the country. On the one hand, it is a diversion of attention, the situation in the state is not simple, it is not easy. The fall of support for the ruling for this reason - one-handed. All together no longer gather as much support as just one party on the opposition side and normally, that this attention should be diverted, redirected to somewhere else, to that field which is not tangible and where it can be manipulated by the public in one way or another, especially taking into account the relative closure of this media space. The Slovenian Democratic Party, irrespective of all these circumstances, has no problem in setting up this commission of inquiry. We respect the Constitution and respect the right of 30 Members of the Constitution, and we are not as double-minded as some of you in this Chamber, who have recently said within some investigative commissions that investigative commissions are not a matter of ruling, but are a matter of opposition to establish themselves for things that are irrelevant, etc. The Constitution is clear and, as provided for in the Constitution, if the conditions are met, these provisions must also be respected. Of course, the ruling people would show that they really care about content if they did not limit themselves to two editions, which are no longer available. Why only two editions? And you're also at odds with yourself: one of you is talking about how much money went out of advertising for these editions, and the other you're saying there were no ads in these editions at all. Then someone here says it cost 2 million euros and the taxpayers were injured. How? None of these editions were financed from any budget fund and no media development fund, such as the Ministry of Culture - watch out for that in the previous term, when Minister Simoniti was very financially supported by, say, an edition called the Cathedral, which is a Slovenian academic and student newspaper, which just before the 2008 elections was published on the first page of Mr Gregor Golobic and his quote, which has already been quoted today, "the mandate of the current government has inherited an investment". This was true for the government of that time, but Mr Golobič was very good at predicting the situation for today. The Department published this at the time of the Janša government, ladies and gentlemen, and you were not disturbed by this, of course. None of the ministers and ministers in charge of this area ever found themselves in this edition! As in another freeman, Good morning, none of the opposition types are found for interviews. We read interviews with the Minister of Defence, with the Minister of Justice, read and watch nice photos of the Prime Minister, etc., but the investigation, look, it doesn't focus on this sex. And these newspapers are coming out. I don't know how many times, I predict once a week, which means that they go to hundreds of thousands of euros, millions of euros a year for these free people, and owners are somewhere in Austria. Now tell me, what motive does an Austrian have to deal with a political scene in the Republic of Slovenia in 2010? And it would be wise to show at least a little credibility and to allow this investigation to be conducted on all the freebies, all of them, and especially on the media monopoly. More! I dare you to do what you have announced in your pre-election programs when you've been giving to act in such a way as to break media monopolies through forced sale of property where these equity shares in individual media are too large. Where is this legislation today and when will you do it? Never. If the problem is free of charge, then it's a very simple matter. Come to the National Assembly by law and ban freemen if they are disturbed, if they spread the facts, if they speak something that is not in line with your expectations or if I simplify, if they are spreading false faith. But, no! For you are not a problem free of charge, for you the problem is two editions that have been produced in a certain period, which are no longer, and which, in your opinion, have written differently than your expectations or should have been written in your opinion. And that's why they're a problem. However, where the tax money actually runs out and where the damage is actually done, every day there is no concern by the ruling coalition that any commission should be set up to investigate it or find out why in just a year in a single case called falcon, taxpayers have lost more than two million euros. In fact, the taxpayer's money! Here, where it was about some private companies - no relation to public finances - and the shedding of some lumps and nonsense about how things were supposed to happen. What is most distorted is the direct label that this is the story of the Slovenian Democratic Party. I must say that this initiative does not surprise me; it does not surprise me because it somehow reflects the state of the spirit of the ruling coalition. I think it would be a great time for you to look at yourself and not to read to others what you are doing alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Melita Župevc has the floor as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The answer is, "No!" There's no reason we're dealing with all the freebies. None! Why? Because of the legality of those who come out today. If you want - because of objectivity, if you want - due to respect for ethical and legal rules. That's why! And it was obvious to us that we were talking about last year's snow. If someone has violated, abused media law, allegedly abused electoral law, abused the evident ethical criteria of the public word, and perhaps abused political influence, it is not last year's snow. Then we must have a lot of interest in that. This is this year's snow, and it will be the same snow next year. We're gonna talk a lot about this snow in here. Speaking of respect for the Constitution. I am really glad that the opposition has decided to respect the Constitution, because you still remember some of the demands for an investigative commission called Mercator. 30 signatories have been signed under this request for a parliamentary inquiry. The then coalition prevented this parliamentary investigation, although it was in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. So much for respect for the Constitution. This is mere duplicity. Earlier, it was mentioned that I reportedly criticised the Slovenian Democratic Party in setting up investigative commissions in the past. Yeah, I'm still behind everything I've said! Let's look at history, let's look at it from the first term to today. Or if we start, say, in 1996 - five investigative commissions, 3 at the request of the opposition, two at the request of the coalition. Mandate 2000-2004, two commission of inquiry. One at the request of the opposition, one in common. Mandate 2004-2008, if you recall, four investigative commissions: one at the request of the opposition and three at the request of the coalition. If you add up, you will find it very difficult for the Left to report that in all the history of Slovenian Parliamentarianism was extensive in the establishment of investigative commissions. Very hard. Look at the data and the data will tell us everything. Extensive was the right hand. Why you set up so many investigative committees, you know that. But if you ask me, who was first signed under the request of this commission of inquiry, there is a big difference as to the purpose of the signatories, the candidates of an investigative commission. If the purpose is alone, if the purpose is to discredit political opponents, then the question is really where will this commission of inquiry come from. However, if the purpose is sincere, it is to actually identify the background of certain stories, to get things to the bottom, and then the commissions of inquiry can be successful and I will give a concrete example. My colleague, Milan Martin Cwickl, who served in the previous term as chairman of an investigative commission, who was a good chairman of the investigative commission and would have ended his work if he had not been disabled by the coalition at the time. Disengagement. This Commission of Inquiry has certainly been one of those who could successfully complete its work. And we're still hearing about Patrio's story today. The story of Patria is far from over. And this investigative commission, as it is said, has done a lot of work and could have done it if the ruling option had not decided that this commission should not finish its work. And that makes a big difference. As I say, I am pleased that you have decided that this time the Constitution is important to you and that you recognize the right not to 30, 45 applicants to set up an investigative commission. But when something was said about the state of the spirit - yes, indeed, the state of the spirit was clear two days ago when we had a constitutional indictment in Parliament by the President of the Republic. Such constitutional accusations point to the state of the spirit. And the opposition's treatment of the President of the Republic has also shown the state of the spirit.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u220	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u221	Thank you so much for saying that. I think this debate today is very interesting. It seems that the victory of the state-run elections has surprised the coalition so far, even so surprised that red lights are still burning in the light of anti-crisis measures for a year and a half. And now this surprise coalition is looking for a culprit who has allowed them to win the last parliamentary elections. For whatever reason, the unsustainable situation we are witnessing in this mandate must be sought within the mandate of this government for a culprit. And it's not more convenient than blaming the Slovenian Democratic Party, just like that. From many discussions, fellow Members from the other side, from the coalition side, this was directly said. It's a direct charge. It's the investigative commission that's supposed to be investigating suspicion. Here we have witnessed direct accusations that we, members of our party, have done nothing in these cases. Mr President of the National Assembly, an extremely sensitive person who quickly intervenes in discussions that are not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, has probably not reacted, because he is also a signatory to these requests for an investigative commission and has left discussions of the coalition Members without restrictions on the one hand, on the other hand he has intervened in many of the debates of our Members, his fellow Grims and others. Probably says a lot about what the level of this communication is today. You know, these days and this mandate, in fact, we always listen to the statements made by many, you coalition-type colleagues, that we are in opposition to those who are constantly disturbing and impeding the work of the coalition. We are making some demands for investigative commissions, making demands for urgent and extraordinary meetings. 30% of these readings are exactly what you caused yourself. One third of the Commissions of Inquiry will be designated in the National Assembly at the request of the coalition, and the same coalition will then be able to report to the opposition parties at the meeting of the National Assembly in order to impede the implementation of the anti-crisis measures. This coalition in the National Assembly is doing this. It's almost impossible to believe. See how many extraordinary meetings have been called upon by the Government or the coalition of the National Assembly, and then we can actually speak qualitatively about whether the opposition is the one that impedes the work of the coalition or not. Obviously, when the problem is the biggest when the problems in the coalition are the worst, it is necessary to put into discussion in the State with a boron theme, that the whole coalition concentrates only on dealing with SDS. We are not a coalition party, we are not a coalition party. Focus on the measures, on the procedures, on the laws, on the contents that will trigger the lighting of the green lights on the traffic light, which will release the lighting of the green lights on the traffic light. The observations we are hearing about the previous mandate regarding the Mercator investigative commission, and so on, if Mrs Župevc looked at the legal opinions that were made at the time, and also participated in it, Dr Cerar, if the opposition of that time were not so clumsy that she was unable to prepare even the material for the Mercator investigative committee's request and had submitted this request for 19 days for coalition, then this commission of inquiry would be easily determined. Then, after all of this, we kind of patched it up, and that Mercator guy we moved here and there. It would also be useful to look at the findings of this commission of inquiry. As for the stories about Patria, it's obvious that we've disabled Mr. Squeak. For a year and a half, you have a majority in the National Assembly, you report to the opposition that it impedes the work of the coalition, you establish investigative commissions in a year and a half, and you have not been able to prepare materials for the appointment of the parliamentary commission in the Patria affair, when it was both forcefully completed and unfortunately completed and prevented in the previous term. I hear you've got those 30 Members of Parliament out of 50 to prepare this request and sign it so that the matter will be cleared up so that you can put the matter on a table that's so disturbing you all the time. And here we are dealing with 100,000 euros and two freebies. First of all, as regards the findings concerning these two free-of-charges and the request for a parliamentary investigation. Unfortunately, I agree with all my colleagues, the request is incomplete, it does not deal fully with the area, as you can say many times. You've released half the printed freebies and all the electronic freebies. Also those financed from the State budget. You have released from the print media the freebies who may have received some kind of invitation from the current Minister of State funds. I'm sorry. When I look at the evidence about the material you gave about Express and the Slovenian Week, I don't know what's at stake: when Kresalova is in violation of the Constitution, it's the right report. Letter forward, Shirca on the mandate of the Ministry of Culture with criticism from the former Minister. Anderlich is critical about the work of the Ministry of Defence. Ljubljana's best neighbor, Mr Jankovic, etc., then what a crucifix. This crossword probably isn't the one that changed people's minds about the elections and their decisions. Drunk and out of exams. It is likely that this part of the chronicle is not one that has a decisive influence or any influence on national elections, etc. In short, when we actually look at it, we look in detail at the material that you've presented, in fact, there's no argument for what you're asking. Is it possible that the request has only been made because Ms Kresalov further states that the complaint against the Competition Protection Office in the case of Mercator was written by Senica’s lawyer’s house. Is that a problem in this case? I guess that's what got into you. When we talk about materials and other materials that are available and about other free customers, we can look at the freebie Good morning. Home Janez Kopač, Director of the Energy Directorate, his contribution: Nuclear power plants will not be available for long. When we open the list, the interview. As we go further, we'll probably get some state sponsor for this free guy, so we'll probably find something. We usually find Slovenian railways, Ljubljana Bank, Mobile, Telekom, etc. I have the next officer's number. Good morning. Here, Mr. Golobich, an interview. Indeed, the president of the party, you will not believe, even the one responsible for telecommunications in this state, the main sponsor, on the back. On the first Mr. Golobič, on the back of Mobile. Tell me, what ministerial sphere does telecommunications belong to? And what department minister covers the field of telecommunications? Must be the gentleman in the front page. Looking ahead, who are the main sponsors. The Laško Brewery, all-round, in the same number. Let's move on, gentlemen, Sunday's diary. Interesting. Sunday's diary. Who owns the Sunday Diary? Let us look at the following sheet, Post of Slovenia, a comprehensive advert. Apparently, there was a great deal of interest for this number in which Mr Golobič had an interview. And Mercator, best neighbor. Look, Mr Anderlich, we can keep looking, just a list forward to Mercator twice and so on. And now [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u222	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u223	I guess now we're [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u224	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u225	But not only us, but also those who accompany this meeting of the National Assembly, it is clear why Good Morning is not included in the content of the commission of inquiry. [[...]] Why isn't good morning in the investigation? Because he also has prominent sponsors on the front pages of the distinguished people of the parties of Really and the coalition. He said earlier that some other ministers were ministers and sponsors of state-owned companies. And what's even funnier, which is even weirder, but the owner is an Austrian. Editorial policy is probably run by the editors, but I don't know, maybe even some failed Slovenian newspaper, like Indírekt, for example. If we look at the other freebie, say, here's our number Good morning, Siol, we probably know that Siol is also one of the daughters of someone. And that the referee minister is probably also one of the prominent officials of the party Zares, Mr Golobič is the President of the party Zares. And even when you look at Journal 24, which is a freebie [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u226	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u227	This one also has famous state sponsors. [[...]] Please take the numbers, browse and you will find that these freebies are also financed by a majority state-owned company or one that has more than 25% of state-owned property. I think that some things should also be said in such a way that things may be better understood. In the introduction, colleague Zorn said that some state media also perform free advisory media functions for the cabinet of the President of the Republic and probably the Government. One of these is probably Mr Veselinovich, who has been communicating and advising on how to approach certain agencies in dealing with certain recent affairs. He thus advised clearly from this letter on the Bulmastif affair, including the Presidential Office, and also in this case on the award of recognition. The President's office, maybe someone else. Also one of the electronic media, Vest.si has one of the authors, suitable authors of contributions to the West.si, even in the political party of the ruling coalition. That would also suggest opening up and looking. And I think it would be very good to look at these things, and some of them are obvious. Here it was said that the Slovenian Democratic Party is the owner of democracy. You know, those who know little about the operation of political parties and who also have some respect for the institution, such as the Court of Auditors, might find and also you know that the Court of Auditors reviews the final accounts and the assets of the parties each year by law. Even if the Youth writes that it is so that the SDS owns a medium, it does not. No, he doesn't. You're talking about democracy, not publishing. You're talking about democracy. Don't hold that. In this case, the Court of Auditors has found nothing in these audits. Even more, we are one of the few parties that we have also received a positive opinion from the Court of Auditors. LDS, for example, for an election campaign negative, but terribly small punishment, minor punishment, etc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u228	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u229	And Mr. Anderlich will probably discuss something else. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u230	No, you won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u231	They won't, too bad, no, because we're always looking forward to their discussions, etc. In short, all those who discuss these matters, who talk so easily about the charges, are burdened by those who are not at your leisure, I think you are doing yourself a very bad favor. If these coalitions are in pants, then surely it was necessary to include a Good Morning freeman, printed, among the subjects and also many of the electronics. Because in this case it is a very simple apparent causal link between a minister who is a minister of higher education and also has control over electronic communications, as you know, because of this we have amended the Government Act, and the majority financiers in this case, Mobil, Telekom and also some company owned by the state, say, Slovenian Railways. The Slovenian railways, which are being rehabilitated with such a problem, are also one of the important sponsors of Slovenian freemen. You're not gonna believe this. The President of the Government goes once a month to coordinate solutions, to look for models how to rehabilitate Slovenian railways, and these are one of the important financiers of Slovenian freemen, say Good morning or, say, Journals and so on. Interesting. It doesn't stab anyone. No one, no small coalition party or the largest coalition party. It's probably from a relationship, from a pieté, out of respect for the Prime Minister, you don't put it on an investigative committee. Well, that would be good. You don't have to laugh. These are the facts, ma'am. Take this issue of Good Juta newspaper from Saturday, December 19, 2009, this is already one year during your reign and see which state sponsors have provided funds for the issue of this issue that came out, it says, in 350 thousand copies. It would be good and proper to include this in the commission of inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Melita Župevc signed up as a proponent. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Well, here's the thing. I'm glad the opposition found out that you need to have a freebie, extensive advertising, so you need advertisers, sponsors. Then I wonder how it's possible that one of these two freebies didn't have any ads. What did they then do to cover the press, distribution, authorship, and more? No ad. Do we understand?Oh, my God! I understand the causal link. Then it was in the next issue, when the media began to write how it was possible that a freeman who had no ads came out, one fortune teller. She's a know-it-all. Now I don't know, maybe this witch is really successful, or she has a lot under her thumb, because she was the lead and only advertiser. We called this witch today, I don't know, there was no witch on that number. Maybe after the election, she disappeared phantomally, but she was the one and only advertiser. That's the way it is. Or, say, Cutkay.si, elections.si. They were advertisers, too. What kind of advertisers were they? When you talk about ads and how important it is that free ads - yes - then the question is, what about free people who come out without ads. Who was funding them? How did he finance them, where he financed them? Where did the money go, who got paid, and who compensated? I do not agree with this comparison that all the freebies in Slovenia are the same. No, it's not. That's not true. I never had any tendency to regulate a newspaper as a politician to interfere with any editorial policy. I don't like what it says many times, but it's not my jurisdiction or my right to get involved. I don't do that. What others do, they will answer for themselves. However, if, as it is said, someone has abused media legislation and in this case, violations of media law have been proven. If someone allegedly abused electoral law and maybe someone abused their political influence, that's another story. And it's not fair to throw everyone in the same basket. It's not fair. We are talking about the Slovenian Week and Express, about the two freemen who came before the elections, who were gone after the elections. Before you talked about some cooking recipes that we're not going to read really all the numbers out loud from the beginning to the end. Let's see what it says on the front pages. In the meantime, you will find much about tenderness, sympathy, affection for exactly one political party. That's right. There's got to be a big conspiracy in the background. Great.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Alexander Zorn has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Your Honor! It will happen that you will have to get used to the fact that such a freebie will continue to emerge and will continue to praise the SDS client. Well, if it's still so dazzling and so much the opposite of free journalism. I hope your investigation will lead you to realize that this will happen again. It will also happen that one of those who will praise the SDS client will be right. This blast is going to happen, too. All of this is going to happen and please investigate. If I've been accused of sarcasm, let me tell you something. My aim was, which I will now repeat, and it turned out twice as much in this debate that the similarity of the content of other freemen, the similarity of advertising companies and the similarity of mysterious owners is very common, very together with Good Morning, where the Austrian owner is extremely interested in one political option and in advertising to state companies, and he shares these newspapers for free. Suspiciously, I have to tell you, suspiciously. Advertisers who compete to be free of charge, including journalists, are most interested in ministers or other prominent representatives of the coalition, also interesting. That's very interesting. And the similarity of content between incriminated freebies and darkness is perfect. But I have to say, a few moments ago, I got another extremely interesting freebie at the table, called Info Citizen. He has, say, nine pages and twenty pictures - twenty pictures of Mr Kontić, your former SD party position. Twenty pictures! Among other things, it is also in the crossword to be recognized by people, asking who this person is here in this newspaper. Please, now we're talking about freebies in such a high, bitter way! For it took a terrible indignation not to say anger. It should have been said that he was offended by some psychiatrist who shared the moral teachings of Slovenia and even the age of Slovenian politics, that he was probably disturbed and in a serious crisis because he said a few words to the distinguished Minister of Great Beauty. Here's the thing about him: he's just a customer camera, even though he's a psychiatrist. That's how it is. And don't mind my sarcasm, because it's not, it's satire, and my way of humor is serious. You'll get used to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u236	Thank you very much. He has the word as the last discusser, Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u237	It's a replica, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u238	I can't give you a replica, Mr Kontic, because you haven't spoken before.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u239	Yes, the President. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u240	Aha, you represented the position. Excuse me! You presented the client's position. Please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u241	If I know anything, President, in this National Assembly, I know the rules of procedure, because I led a commission of two terms.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u242	I know him, too, but as I recall, when you presented your position, I wasn't in the hall. Well, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u243	Those concerned with my photo - now you can see me live, probably not like it most, but it's not the problem. Lord Communist, ex-John Janša, make peace [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u244	Mr. Conticy, a moment!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u245	We discussed this a few days ago. Here you go, President. [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] But that's no offense, Mr. President of your party said he was proud and did not hide history and the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u246	Mr. Contic. Please stop. I have to stop you because I have to give you as a replica because time was running out. Wait a minute. You've already spent 45 seconds. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u247	Don't worry, Mr. Ivan Janez Janša, we're not going to publish your photos in our newspaper, so you're totally worried because people wouldn't read them and throw them on the ground and our people are reading them in Velenje. You have made a grave mistake in this statement, Mr Zorn, of course, because you always intend to say something on this side, even if it is a lie and it may be a grave lie. The information issued by a citizen in Velenj is a client's bulletin. And it says, "The Publisher of Social Democrats." And if we publish our photo on every page, it's no big deal because it's our newspaper and we're traitors and we know who's paying for it. But how they read it is another thing, and it is a matter of reading and reading. So, you always do some story, some half-truth. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Mr. Tanko, calm down. I'm used to your culture. I'd be surprised if you'd listen. The magazine we publish so calmly doesn't have to sit down because you look funny if I may tell you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u248	Please, Mr. Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u249	If you were doing what I do, Mr President, you wouldn't be answering. I'll tell you again, it's pure abuse. [[..]] [[The ad from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u250	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u251	Once again, well, but I'll commit myself here in this place when we issue the next issue and because people have not been accompanying the previous meeting, we'll also write your text. Following the ways of Avno, Mr. Ivan Janez Janša, they will be able to read it in our newspaper. I have promised you that we will repeat it several times, and we will, because it is interesting and shows your duality, just as these statements of your duality show. Tell the truth, just like it is. It's no problem that you're betraying us, and you can also tell the client's newspaper that it's a customer's newspaper and that it's not a newspaper that you've been publishing before the elections, because we still don't know who paid it today because we still don't know if we have 10 Patria without equipment because we still don't know the answer to some of the main things today. But colleagues and colleagues, we're going to find out with this investigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, if I should not, I would like to welcome the editors of all the freemen, of all the types of freemen who are currently in the Chamber. Thank you very much. The word is Brada Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u253	I must say that, after what the leader of our Group has said, there is almost too much to say, however. I am interested, and I will be very happy to accompany the work of the investigative commission, which will eventually come to data that journalists could not reach. We've seen this very clearly. It is very mysterious how it is possible that a company that had nothing could have received millions of Euros of credit. Who vouched for those loans? Two companies issued each of their own freebies. We have heard several times that one of these companies had - perhaps it was very useful and important that the fortune teller financed advertising in this week, free of charge, because she may have witnessed some kind of money that did not go through or through the Anti-Money Laundering Office. In fact, if a company receives money or prints a whole number of free-of-charge numbers without advertising, it means that this company has been very secretively financed and that in this mysterious financing, the Anti-Money Laundering Office should verify this, find out where the money is, how the money is being washed, what illegal acts are hidden in order to obtain this money. The second is that credits for printing and distribution and writing, of course, had to be given to banks by the Slovenian Week. However, if the banks did not provide, they had to give some entities, individuals or companies, who certainly had to request some guarantee to be able to expect the return of the money. Well, some of that money was still unpaid anyway, including Mail. And when you speak in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this party has nothing to do with freebies, the content was clear anyway, I think it might not be clearer, but let's leave it. For example, we can say that some bastard was who was deliberately writing against the so-called transition left, which we are hearing about all the time, because to show it, it is said that the transition left has begun to issue freebies for showing with a finger how evil they are in the Slovenian Democratic Party to attack through freemen who have no masters who have no money and are said to be something illegal. And that's what SDS does. This is what we did to frame the SDS to cheat, launder money, cheat the end of suppliers, including Mail Slovenia. While we were able to read in the media that the lady who carried out the revision of this deal between the Post Office and these two free-of-charges was, by chance, in close connection with the Slovenian Democratic Party. So, again, we planted the Post Office with a person who was reviewing the business that her client was doing, that must have been on purpose. And I can say that the Director of Post Slovenia should be particularly disappointed because he makes such impossible moves. I am pleased that this commission of inquiry will finally wash the reputation and integrity of the Slovenian Democratic Party to prove that it is all a construct made by the Social Democracy and, therefore, I believe that it is imperative that we have a Vice-President from the Slovenian Democratic Party to guide the work and path of this investigative commission. In fact, given what I've been listening to in the debates today, how to sweep before our threshold, how the freebies in Slovenia appear in them the advertisements of Siola, the Sunday Diary, I don't know what else, yes, that's really impossible, these are the freebies who hope to finance themselves with ads. I must say that it is imperative, colleagues and colleagues, that we include free-of-chargers in this commission of inquiry who allow themselves to publish advertisements in order to finance their outcome. I think there's something completely wrong here. In Slovenia there must be free people financed from debt to suppliers and to lenders, this is the right way to finance free people. Yeah, for God's sake, where'd you see it being published in free advertising to finance it? All over the world, you know, especially in the United States of America, where one of the parties in this House has a very large set of examples, especially where free-of-chargers come out without advertising, without advertising, think about it. And I'm sure the global crisis has also arisen because some free people are financed by advertising. I think this is something that needs to be explored. Speaking of freeman Good morning, by the way, I would say this, in one issue of the seaside newspaper Good morning is also an interview with me, think about it, and unfortunately I couldn't find in that commercial number for any company that my friends, relatives are working in and so on. Something's wrong. Something's wrong. Think, my interview was published and there was no advertising or for Luka Koper, not for Kad, not for the Court, not in the Court I have no relatives, pardon, I forgot, not for the Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, there is one of my relatives, so, unusually, this Good Morning is not consistent. It only publishes advertisements when the interview by Gregor Golobič was published. "What a strange miracle." But I have to say, I should be there for that. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u254	Thank you very much. The time has run out for the Group of Members. Would you like a word with the proponents, the proponent, the proponent? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u255	Thank you very much, President. We were previously told that we were misrepresenting the information. Probably the problem is that there's some kind of conspiracy in the background with the JAPES. I never said that SDS betrays democracy. I don't know who said that. But, by chance, there's a company out there, some label called the New Horizon. And you, who know you can read the I.P.P.S. data well, go look at the I.P.P.E. What it says. What kind of equity does SDS have? Yeah, most of it, right? I don't know, I don't have any friends on the I.P.P. That's what it says. And this company, this publication just happened to issue a book that was distributed in this House two days ago at a time when the President of the Republic of Slovenia responded to a constitutional accusation. But that's not what the leadership of the National Assembly ordered. This was not the intended material. And when I asked my buddy, and it doesn't matter who it was, he said, "My bosses." And I asked him, "What bosses?" And he says, "Yes, mine." "Yes, which one?" And he says, "Those who sit opposite." Who can afford to do this in the National Assembly?Oh, my God! Now I said, look at the IAPES, if you don't believe me. Maybe it's a mistake. The SDS is the majority owner of the New Horizon publishing works, and this publishing works by chance also release democracy. Just by accident. It was by chance that she also published that book that you shared in this National Assembly two days ago when the President of the Republic spoke here, which, for the first time, was disrespectful, and if you ask me, you should not afford such a thing in this House if you have at least a little political culture. When someone speaks, he's not even the president of the Republic. With such a low political provocation, you come in a day. Then why didn't you split it up, I don't know, three days earlier, two days later, one month earlier? I don't understand that. There are scissors and linen in your hands. When it was said earlier that the problem is other freemen on the other hand - see, other free people know who drinks and who pays. And the basic thing that's here is the question of what's legal, what's illegal. If you want, you can also talk about what is ethical and what is unethical. I don't know who invented these two names Slovenian Week and Express, their essence can be reduced to 10 points: political discredit, phantom bots, phantom financiers, phantom writers, phantom advertisers, excess, abuse of media legislation, alleged abuse of electoral legislation, undoubtedly abuse of ethical criteria of the public word and abuse of political influence. That's the important difference, and I don't agree to you talking about why not that. No, no, no. Because there's no reason for that. Exactly these two, exactly the two that began before the last elections, which did not just write about cooking recipes, were not just crosswords, but were high monetary rewards, for the freeman very high, 300 euros per crossword. That's the big difference. It is unfair for those newspapers, if you want, to be freemen who fight in the market, who work honestly, which is important to them objectivity, if you want, truthfulness. That's where even real journalists write. It doesn't say "See the Vidi," but I don't know who else. That's where people sign their names and names. And because of me, they can write about SDS every day. They can praise them to heaven if that's their way. If they are to sign it, they're behind their own words, OK, there's no problem. To me, as I say, what kind of article doesn't like, but that's my problem, that's what this is about. It's about legality, it's about objectivity, it's about ethics, it's about a lot of other things, and it's about money.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u256	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you to sign up. Twenty-two debaters and debaters have been reported, and the time is 16 minutes. In view of the practice we have put in place in the last two days and also because it is really difficult to say anything serious in 40 seconds, please agree with the conclusion that the debate on the subject of free people is concluded. Mr Grimes procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u257	Mr President, this time I object to the exception, for even 40 seconds is enough to answer Mrs. Zupevcheveva, who said earlier that she would never pay attention to the media and that it would not even occur to her to explain the letters: Dear Borut, dear Tone, colleagues of Mr. Rope and Mr. Pahor. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u258	Mr Grimes, this is not a procedural proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u259	which they were together in the light of her statement. [[....]] This is a question of ethics, as she has referred to and also of credibility, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u260	Mr Grimes, this is not a procedural proposal. You have misused the right to a procedural proposal. I note that we have concluded the debate on free of charge. Pursuant to Article 4(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the assembly on parliamentary investigation does not vote, so I note that the Parliamentary Chamber ordered a parliamentary inquiry to establish and assess the factual situation with regard to the establishment of issuers, the issuance and financing of free weeks The Slovenian weekly and Express, due to the existence of a suspicion that they were issued for the purpose of influencing the election of Members to the National Assembly in 2008, on behalf of the political parties of the then ruling coalition or because of the existence of a suspicion that their undercover pre-election campaign or financing of political parties which may be the basis, for the first time, for the decision of the State assembly on the political responsibility of individual holders of public functions because of the existence of the suspicion, that the individual law-holders of the public service were involved in the exercise of the public power of the power of the public authority, that, that the individual law of a public authority was involved in the establishment of a public authority, that was involved in the formation of a public authority, that the public authority, that was involved in the establishment of a public authority or in the decision of a public authority, that it was involved in the issue of a public authority, that was involved in the first time to issue of a public authority, that it was involved in relation to issue, that it was involved in respect of a public authority, that it was involved in the issue, that it was involved in the company and that it was in the secondly constituted in the issue, that was in the company and that was in the second party in the second party in the second instance in the decision of a public authority and that was in the company and that it was in the form of a charge of a public authority, that it had a public authority, that it had a public authority, that it had a public authority, that it had a public authority, that it had a public authority, that it had a public authority, that it had a public authority, that it had a public authority’s, that it had a public authority’s, that it had a public authority’said and that it had a public authority’s, that it had a public authority’s, that it had a publicauthority’s , that it had an economicauthority’s , that it had an economicauthority’s , that it had an economicauthority’s , that it had aparty’ said it had a publicauthority’s, The purpose of the parliamentary investigation is to clarify and clarify all the facts and circumstances and to assess the actual state of establishment of the issuers, the issue and financing of free-of-charge agents. To determine whose interests and what interests have led to the issue of the freeman and to determine the degree of possible involvement of individual holders of public functions in the establishment of issuers, the issue and financing of free-of-chargers and the assessment of their political impact. Identify links between individual public function holders and persons involved in the establishment of issuers, the issuance and financing of free-of-charge issuers in addition to issuers. To determine whether there were political reasons why the representatives of the Republic of Slovenia, as the owner of the supervisory authorities, of companies owned directly or indirectly by the State, were or are still operating in the supervisory authorities to allow the cooperation of the issuers of free-of-charges or not to act in accordance with their powers, since the existence of a dispute that the issuers did not have sufficient resources to issue both free-of-chargers. To determine whether the authorities of companies in direct and indirect predominant state ownership, which cooperated with the issuers of free of charge, were influenced by individual holders of public functions or whether they misused their political influence to approve cooperation. To determine whether and why individual public function holders should allow for an alleged infringement lays down applicable legislation in the field of media, electoral campaign and political parties, or the alleged abandonment of official conduct, as it is suspected that the free agent has been issued to influence the election of Members to the 2008 National Assembly, in favour of the political parties of the then ruling coalition, or whether it is suspected that it is their covert campaign or the financing of political parties. The scope of the parliamentary inquiry is: The investigation should focus on the period from the establishment of issuers of both free of charge, companies Zametek, d.o.o., and Progresia, d.o.o., and from the first issue of freemen, the Slovenian Week and Express until the end of the issue or the date on which the companies or issuers of both free of charge were deleted from the Registry of Justice. The investigation should include the establishment of issuers of both free-of-charge companies, Zametek companies and Progresia, the issue of free-of-charges and the participation of companies in direct or indirect predominant state ownership with the issuer and the conduct or non-regulation of the competent national authorities with regard to the establishment and issuance of both freeholders for the enforcement of existing media and electoral and legislation in political parties. The Parliamentary Commission is hereby designated. In this regard, I ask the Council of State to draw up a proposal for a decision on the composition and appointment of the Commission of Inquiry in accordance with the content of a specific parliamentary inquiry and to forward it to the National Assembly at the latest at its forthcoming meeting. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 14th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 5.40 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u261	Ladies and gentlemen, we continue our meeting. We are moving on to the 14th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Rail Safety in the framework of the regular procedure. Since amendments have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on amendments. We will first decide on the first amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 36. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 36.]] We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment, which was also tabled by the SDS Group on Article 4. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 41. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 41.]] The amendment was not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 14 tabled by the SDS Group. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 43. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 43.]] The amendment was not accepted. We have thus concluded a second reading of the bill. We're moving to third reading. Since the amendments were not adopted in the second reading to the amended proposal, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Government's legislative and legal service did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We are therefore moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Railway Safety Act. We're voting. There were 70 votes in favour and 69 in favour against. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Treatment of Genetically Modified Organisms, within the framework of the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There were 70 votes in favour and 69 in favour. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - the third consideration of the draft law on the remuneration of businessmen in companies owned by the Republic of Slovenia and by self-government local communities, under the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There were 70 votes in favour and 70 in favour against no one. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item on the agenda - the third item on the proposal for a law on services in the internal market, within the framework of the regular procedure. Since the amendments to the amended bill have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There were 70 votes in favour and 66 in favour against 4. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. We are moving on to the continuation of the 13th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the proposal for a law on changes and additions to the Energy Act, in the context of the regular procedure of the draft law, the amendment is tabled in article 15. It was tabled by SD, really, DeSUS and LDS. We are moving to a vote on this amendment. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We have concluded the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and since, in the course of the discussion, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Economy has already proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, should hold a third debate on the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We vote on the proposal to hold a third hearing at this meeting. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold a third debate on the bill on Monday, 8 March of this year, after the final vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. Period of the agenda - This is for the defence proposal of the law on the ratification of the Convention of the World of Europe on pre-emption, detection, seizure and seizure of assets acquired by criminal acts and on the financing of terrorism. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. It first applied on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mag. Branko Grimes. Procedurally, please. Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u262	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President! To this act, the Slovenian Democratic Party has tabled an amendment to this Act, which I find has not been distributed to Members, nor is there any explanation for why this amendment has not been tabled. In doing so, I would like to say that this amendment has been tabled in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 132 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and it states here that the restrictions on the application of amendments do not apply to amendments which are submitted to the transitional and final provisions of the draft law. Our amendment, which we have tabled, has been put directly into transitional and final provisions because the deadline is being adjusted. I propose that this amendment of ours be distributed to the members of the National Assembly, that for this time until the amendment is split, the meeting be suspended and that we then hold the debate and vote on the amendment tabled. I think it is very unfair of the leadership of the National Assembly not to inform Members of what the parliamentary groups have drawn up, and someone outside the Rules of Procedure orders that the amendments tabled should not be distributed. And it is even more strange not to inform the Members of the National Assembly that something has been invested, even at the time when you announced the consideration of the item on the agenda. I propose that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall apply equally to the parties in the coalition and to the parties in the opposition and that you do not work for future such exceptions. I suggest, however, that, for a time until this amendment is broken down, the meeting of the National Assembly be suspended. I think in 15 minutes this relatively simple task can be accomplished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u263	Thank you very much, Mr. Tanko. The Rules of Procedure shall certainly apply to all Members and Members, regardless of which group they belong to. I am informed that the amendment has been tabled, but the amendment has not been tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, amendments may be submitted to the second reading only if there have been changes and additions to the law in the home working body and, pursuant to Rule 132 of the Rules of Procedure, only if the amendments and additions to the law have been made to the transitional and final provisions. You have indeed submitted to transitional and final provisions, but we are enacting a law on ratification, not amending and supplementing the law on ratification, which is why your amendment is not properly tabled. I have been informed that he has not been sent to the Members and Members because we cannot decide on him. You want a word? This debate is not possible, this is my business decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u264	Procedurally, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going to discuss what you didn't share. Article 132 shall read as follows: First paragraph: "In the case of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law, amendments may only be made to an article of amendments and to supplement the proposal of the law." Second paragraph: "The restriction referred to in the preceding paragraph shall not apply to amendments which are submitted to the transitional and final provisions of the draft law." We have submitted to the transitional and final provisions and there is no limit to such amendments in the Rules of Procedure. In fact, this is an exception permitted by the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I propose that the leadership of the National Assembly ensure that this amendment, which has been tabled in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 132, is distributed to the members of the National Assembly and therefore the proposed suspension for that time. We then propose a further discussion on the duly tabled amendment of the Group of Members. You will be Members or you will not support this amendment by voting. However, it is not right for the President-in-Office not to split the amendment, but it is even less correct not to inform him that anything has been submitted to this point and is not even justified, why something has not been shared. I propose the suspension and division of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u265	Mr Tanko, the amendment was not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'm the one who interprets the Rules of Procedure during the meeting. I have read to you the 132nd Rule of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which applies to amendments and amendments to the law. Today, we are enacting a law on ratification. That is why I decide that the amendment will not be tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the law tabled. On behalf of the Group of Members, the first submitted a mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u266	Respectable. First of all, I would like to stress that the Slovenian Democratic Party explicitly supports the Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Detection, Seizure and Seizure of the Proceeds of Crime and on the Financing of Terrorism, and specifically stresses its importance in our situation, the situation of modern society, and, secondly, in the context of the transition state, where we all know that we face the open issue of corruption every day, the open issue of the property benefit, the Taiwan property, as some say, caused by questionable acts, can sometimes also be caused by direct crime. In this case, it is even more unusual to face the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has provided for an exception in the law on ratification. She stated her reservation to the article quoted below: "Every Contracting Party shall take such legislative or other measures as may be necessary to ensure that, in the event of serious offences or offences defined by national law, the perpetrator of a criminal offence manifests the origin of an alleged property benefit or other property which may be taken away if such a requirement is in accordance with the principles of its national law." I would say that this article cannot in any case be disputed, it is logical, the same solutions are known by most democratic countries. If something is obtained by a criminal act, especially if it is a more serious crime, then it is logical that such an asset may be taken away. It is only a principle here that the Contracting Party must provide for cases where this may occur in national legislation and how this can be done. To that end, the existing authorities have expressed reservations. That's extremely unusual. This was said by the Government's representative when we discussed this at a meeting of the Committee, so that this could lead to a derogation from the constitutional principle of innocence. In view of the extremely clear article I have read about, I think it is obvious that such an excuse is quite attractive to the hair, especially because it is precisely because the resolution itself refers to what it would have adopted in its legislation and at the same time I point out that some of these solutions are already familiar with Slovenian legislation. For example, when it comes to the issue of income taxes, you know that under the Income Act, the authority has the right to measure the difference if it considers that there is a significant and measurable difference between the spending of a person and between the declared income. This is said to be where, then, if this is a derogation, where it is only where the principle of innocence is, and here it speaks explicitly of the gravity of the crime or of the offences defined by national law. Why this reservation is here, this simply cannot be understood differently than that the existing authority intends to continue to protect Taiwanese assets, and is here at the institutional nature, regrettably, even outside, because it is a confirmation of an international act, which will also need to be notified to other partners abroad, shows that the current authority is not doing anything other than protecting capital. I also quote the winner once again: "with a more serious crime defined as such by national law." Why is this reservation here? What was our amendment was only that if there is any confusion or contradiction to the existing Slovenian legislation in order to have a transitional period and then this reservation would, of course, cease to apply. It was our amendment that this reservation would cease to apply. However, you have now played this procedural game in the National Assembly so that we cannot even decide on this amendment. I think it is a shame for the Slovenian government to propose a reservation in this case. If anything was to be done on the basis of national legislation, it would certainly be necessary to do so - already due to the Slovenian situation, due to the principle of fairness, due to fairness as values and because the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that Slovenia is a legal and social state.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u267	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u268	Good day to you all! Even in the Slovenian People's Party, in reviewing today's law to confirm this convention, we have seen some duality, because we firmly believe that when we want to reserve a convention to a key article of this law, practically Slovenia rejects the convention and does not join it with reservation. The Council of Europe Convention on the Laundering, Detection and Seizure of the Proceeds of Crimes and the Financing of Terrorism concerns two main issues: terrorism and major crimes. The Council of Europe, as set out in the introduction to this Convention, wants to achieve greater unity among members, that Europe's belief that a common approach to the protection of society is needed, is discussed in this Convention, and that, taking into account these serious crimes, cooperation and international action must be taken. And paragraph 4 of the introduction states that Europe is convinced that it is one of these methods for the perpetrators to be deprived of their wealth benefits and of the items derived from crimes. And the whole convention, which in the third chapter, which also reads this Article 4 earlier, is intended to implement a technique to implement a way of cooperation between countries, how large criminal associations, those involved in terrorism, money laundering, an effective measure - the taking of property - would step to the finger and eventually make order in this matter. We, too, firmly believe that in Slovenia this reversed burden of proof is absolutely necessary to introduce it into Slovenian legislation and we do not understand why we then exempt this part from this Convention. At today's Slovenian moment, arrests are taking place daily, even today we are witnessing one such action. And we talk about toothless police a lot and stuff. We are also talking about Toothless Police and our entire system when it comes to fighting young guys who are dealing with arms trafficking, drugs, big-car owners. Such a measure, however, I think we could really deal effectively with crime. It is also not clear to us that in this case, when Europe approaches a united approach to this issue, Slovenia is exempt from this key element of this Convention and then this Convention is "recognizable" without this basic tool, which is used to achieve greater security in Europe. Those who deal with politics at the local level also face some of the principles of the reverse burden of proof, such as those of the municipalities that bring applications for kindergartens, to examine their assets. It is almost so far that we should appoint expert commissions to review the value of images on the walls, to evaluate cars and on this basis reduce social benefits, which is the difference in price. In the second part, we are also talking today about amending social legislation, in the field of social transfers, where the property will also be the object that will be the basis for determining the amount of social cases. In the case of terrorism, however, in the case of major offences of money laundering, we simply give up this effective instrument. And when we observe society around us, we see that we have such a system, and I don't know why we want to keep it that way, so that we get small offenders of crime, and the big ones always stay protected. In Slovenia, as far as I know, there is no problem for anyone who looks deep into a glass to get it three times, to take his car. While someone who has acquired a large amount of property through the permanent transfer of paper may eventually be dealing with crimes, and we renounce it in the international convention. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we cannot support such a law if, today, such a law as proposed, we break down, Slovenia actually renounces this convention, not give it support. And I think it would be right for us to reject it and, also because of Slovenia's international reputation, to draw up such a proposal for a law that will not have this exception.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Presentation of the views of the groups of Members is completed. The debate between Members and Members is not foreseen, so we conclude the debate. However, I should be allowed to say two. First time. Crimes and criminal proceedings are discussed, and this is not comparable to other procedures. And second. I believe that today's debate will also be understood and accepted by the Government, and if necessary, ratification can also be changed. Since no amendment has been adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading and the conditions for deciding on amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly have been created, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 40 for, 6 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. On behalf of the Russian Federation on cooperation in the construction and operation of the gas pipeline on the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the Group of Members not yet tabled, nor is the Group of Members. [[...]] As the parent body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, for 65, against no one. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 28. POINT OF THE DAY’S LINE - ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE WARRANTY TREATY BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE EUROPEAN INVESTIGATION BANK FOR OBLIGATIONS FROM THE FRAMEWORK LOSS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND DEVELOPMENT OF AGRICULTURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The law treated the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 29. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROTOCOL'S RATIFICATION PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S PROTOCOL'S AMENDMENT TO THE SCIENTIFIC SAFETY CONTRACTION BETWEEN THE CONTRACTING PARTIES TO THE NORTH ATLANTIC COOPERATION TREATY ON COOPERATION IN NUCLEAR DATA. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. Period of the day - This is on a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Canada on the mobility of young people. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother labourer who reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill and moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 31. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Regulation on the Ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention on third party liability in the field of nuclear energy of 29 JULY 1960, AS IT WAS CHANGED WITH AN ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL OF 28. OF JANUARY 1964 AND PROTOCOL OF 16. NOVEMBER 1982. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There were 70 votes in favour, and we all voted in favour. [[Everyone voted for it.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 32. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Protocol amending the Convention of 31 December 2009 OF JANUARY 1963, SUPPLEMENTING THE PARIS CONVENTION OF 29. JULY 1960 ON THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE THIRD IN THE FIELD OF NUCLEAR ENERGY AS CHANGED BY THE ADDITIONAL PROTOCOL OF 28. OF JANUARY 1964 AND PROTOCOL OF 16. NOVEMBER 1982. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a mother working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. Since the mother labour body has not adopted any amendments under the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There were 70 votes in favour and 69 in favour against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 33. This is an official revised text: A) Act on the composition of agricultural land and the forests of the Republic of Slovenia. Officially consolidated text was prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and confirmed by the National Assembly without discussion. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for the following decision: The text of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is officially consolidated. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 1. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the text of that Act has been officially clarified by the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 34. At the end of the day, these are mental-voluntary matters. Under this item, the National Assembly will consider: - a proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia - a proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Programme Council of RTV Slovenia - on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Radio Television Act of Slovenia, - a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternates of the members of the two Investigative Commissions of the National Assembly and - a proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President of the Management Board of the Fund to finance the decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. First of all, we are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. No applications shall be made on behalf of the groups of Members and Members of Parliament and Members. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling the Statistical Council of the Republic of Slovenia for a period of four years Jernej Durnbek Vote. There are 70 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 19. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. Under b we are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17, paragraph 6, of the Radiotelevision Act of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. Mr Jože Tanko will be given the floor to apply on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u270	Thank you so much for saying that. Our parliamentary group of this proposal will not support the Commission's decision. We believe that the Mandate-Election Commission has had a better choice, a more balanced choice in the composition of the Radio Television Programme Board, that is to say such a choice that would actually suit the structure of the National Assembly. Unfortunately, the coalition was the one that decided differently, and of the three candidates proposed, two of them from opposition parties supported their candidate, Miran Lesjak. At the same time, we can only wonder how it is not possible to get the support of a candidate coalition, to appoint Zlata Krašovec, who is a longtime journalist, an experienced journalist, a good media expert, we have proposed this in our parliamentary group, or is not suitable for a member of the Radiotelevision programme world, former director of Radiotelevision Janez Čadež, proposed by the Slovenian People's Party. It is clear that the criteria under which the staff appointments are carried out by the coalition in the National Assembly are political. The Party which has nine members of the National Assembly, that is, the party Zares, will have two members in the programming board from the quota of the National Assembly. The SD, which has 30 members, also two members and SDS, as the largest opposition party, has one member. All other parliamentary groups do not have members in the programming council, although in the case of the withdrawal of the formerly elected candidate, we had the opportunity to correct this structure, this relationship in the programming world. Regrettably, in this case, it is also demonstrated that the coalition does not, in fact, leave any room for other parliamentary groups to participate, such as the opposition parliamentary groups in the work of the Radiotelevision Programme Council, although it has an additional possibility of being appointed to the Human Programme Council. That things are actually going very one-way, there are also approaches to amending legislation in this area, particularly the amendment of the Radiotelevision Act, where there is actually such a strange bill that it has turned to many people even in coalition. Further changes to the media law, etc. are announced. Even in public institutions, which are public because they act in the interest of all citizens, of all citizens, even where there is a possibility and where this is highly expected, this is within the framework of the functioning of the National Assembly, we do not neglect the relevant structure of the political parties' quota. I think that the coalition should only stop somewhat in these matters, so that it should consider what is a healthy right measure and also these human resources procedures belonging to the National Assembly, even in some such appropriate way. Especially in cases where they propose to the Programme Council or other parts of public institutions, the Government also has its quota. It is logical to expect the government to propose its candidates, its people. However, in the quota of the National Assembly, it is highly reasonable to expect the National Assembly to appoint the people who best reflect the structure of the National Assembly. And we were surprised that the coalition did not, and did not, perform this correctional test, which it had carried out with the resignation of the former candidate Igor Vidmar, and did not correct that mistake, which it had made in the first vote of the Mandate-Election Commission and the National Assembly. As we say, we will not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u271	Thank you very much. The other parliamentary groups did not report a presentation of their positions, so we have concluded by presenting the views of the groups. There are no Members and Members to be debated, so we are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision appointing Miran Lesjak as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on the basis of the sixth indent of Article 17 of the Law on RTV Slovenia, for the period until the end of the 2010 mandate period of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council. We're voting. There were 70 votes in favour and 43 in favour against 23. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted and Mr Miran Lesjak has been appointed. I hereby conclude this consideration. We turn to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Committee of Inquiry to establish the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, who were responsible for the preparation and execution of the count of so-called "exploded" in 2003 and 2009, because of the suspicion that the results were officially published to the political needs of certain holders of public functions, to determine the political responsibility for the improper enforcement of the 8th point of the Constitutional Court decision U-1/246/02-28 (Official Gazette RS, No. 135/03) between the beginning of 2003 and October 2004 and the period from 22 November 2008 onwards, the consequences of which are also the creation of obvious inequalities before the law and the threat to the public finances system, and the investigation of suspicion of clientism or corruption by certain state officials and the investigation of the suspicion of the abuse of the Ministry of the Interior of the Republic of Slovenia for political purposes from the beginning of 2003 to October 2004 and the period from 22 November 2008 onwards. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry, by which Anton Urh, DeSUS Group, is appointed as a member. We're moving to the vote. There are 69 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are going to examine the proposal for a decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the National Council of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, who have participated in the preparation and implementation of investments and leasing, rental and other comparable transactions financed by the State budget or the budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana in the field of housing projects and purchases of residential buildings and related garage facilities or surfaces in the Municipality of Ljubljana, projects for the renewal and construction of the premises of the University of Primorska, projects for the housing of the Republic of Slovenia, projects of public interest, projects of public interest, projects of buildings in the field of public use, projects of construction investments in public interest, projects for the construction of public interest, funded by the State budget or the budget of the City municipality of Ljubljana, and projects of construction and projects of public investment in the field of public interest in the context of the subject matter of the construction of the construction of the administrative structure, and the construction of the construction of the construction of the construction of the administrative structure and of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the budget of the public administration of the Ljubljana. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry appointing Mr Anton Urh, DeSUS. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the final proposal of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission, this is the Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution of the President of the Management Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. He shall have the word on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, Mr Zalokar Orazem. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a decision on the discharge of the President of the Management Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from this power plant will be supported by the Zares Group. We believe that this is a decision based on the incompatibilities of the two functions at the same time, because the lady who currently holds the presidency of the Management Board, Mrs Romana Jordan Cizelj, as you know, has been elected as a European Member. The National Assembly, or the Mandate-Election Commission, warned of the incompatibility of these two functions by the Anti-Corruption Commission, which considers this to be two functions which are incompatible. With such an explanation, we agree, and we believe, that these are unequivocal and clear reasons and the legal basis that prevents these two difficult functions at the same time. Of course, in recent days we have witnessed a number of press conferences, as well as statements that would like to see the president of the Management Board of the Fund for the Decommissioning of the Nuclear Power Plant Romane Jordan Cizel present as a political clearing, as a political accounting and resolution that has a political basis. In the Group, we really do not believe that these are true claims and that we follow the guidelines or the legal basis for non-compatibilities. Finally, for some hygiene reason, it is difficult for me to imagine that someone who performs such an important and challenging function as a European Member or a European Member may, at the same time, manage the governing board of that Fund. We are therefore convinced that the solution is also justified in this respect. Last but not least, we would also like to say that although Mrs Romana Jordan Cizelj is a real nuclear energy expert, she has been faced in her work on the board of directors or has also been faced with the management of funds, finances, and regrettably, at least as regards the findings of our Group of Members, we believe that they have been extremely unsuccessful in managing these large funds. The debate we had on the Commission on Public Finance Supervision was in a way, given the fact that the SDS representative, Mr Vizjak, was in the process of being prevented, so that a genuine, comprehensive debate could not be held on this issue, but only took place in a round of those who were thinking in the same way. We're sure there's been a lot of irregularities here. Finally, perhaps some of the arrests that have been made today, and we have read about it, may also be linked in some way to the means used to manage it. The Zares Group believes that, solely because of the formal reasons for the incompatibilities of the two functions, we will support the discharge of the President of the Management Board.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u273	The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u274	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will support the discharge of the President of the Governing Board, mainly for simple reasons other than political and legal grounds. The opinion of the Kosovo Anti-Corruption Commission is clear and clear. The first decision was followed by a three-month deadline for action and the possibility of cancelling one of the two functions, which the candidate did not decide on. Since there was no decision within this legal period, the anti-corruption commission informed the National Assembly that it should act in accordance with the law. Therefore, there is nothing to add to this legal interpretation. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will respect and confirm this decision. However, the duality of such functions in both European and our field is also politically unacceptable, unhygienic and adequately legally supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u275	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u276	Dear colleagues and colleagues! As much as it was at the time of this resolution, if it was a matter of respect for the Incompatibilities Act, we have not heard of it in this house. So far, it has been possible that former Member Brana Janc has been on the governing or supervisory committee of this Fund for four years, this has not been incompatible. There were others, and not least, Mrs Silva Montenegro was sitting in the bodies of this fund. This was all right and right until Mrs Romana Jordan Cizelj became on her way to some of the ambitions of the current government, read by the Ministry of Economy or Director of the Energy Directorate, Mr Kopač, with the money of this fund. The objective is to obtain certain funds from this fund, how to bring its financial experts to the groins of the fund. Since respectable Mrs Jordan Cizelj, as an energy expert, was opposed to mentioning that she was the European Parliament's top energy ambassador, she initially followed professional and principled positions and wanted stability in ensuring the tasks of this Fund. However, the objectives of this Fund are to provide funds for the decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant and for the financing of the radioactive waste storage. But this government has a different purpose. She wanted to set up an investment policy herself, not least to appoint the director of this fund herself. This is also a clear message because it did not give consent to certain acts and requested the Fund to introduce these amendments into the Statute. That's what the fund resisted. Why? Because the fund is a state fund. This fund is not a normal fund. It shall be supervised by the National Assembly, the authorities shall be appointed by the National Assembly and shall ensure some stability in the functioning of this Fund. Here, however, one government suit, which has already subordinated all Slovenian energy, is a set around Zares, the parties of Zares, to get it in the 145 million euros that this fund has. This, Your Honor, is an essential reason for the resolution of Mrs Jordan Cizelj. Since it was known that also the selection of the new fund director and, of course, the proposal would form the Fund's Management Board, and therefore the Governing Board should be combed, the staffing of the current authority should be consolidated to the extent that it would be placed at the head of the fund of a person who would take part in that authority and that, finally, it would also affect decisions, the cash flow of this fund and the projects that this fund would run with political calls and decisions. These are the facts. These are the facts which have never been hidden by the party in fact and which have been very clear on all its objections to the operation of this fund. Moreover, in order to subordinate its finances, it also recorded structural adjustments for 2010 and 2011. This is a document and an act adopted by the Government. It states that the funds of the decommissioning fund, which are intended and, last but not least, be concrete with the Interstate Treaty with the Republic of Croatia, will be earmarked for the energy efficiency of public buildings and similar nonsense. This is recorded in the government's draft, which was adopted by the Government and is contrary to the law and the interstate contract. So I would like to say that this is hiding behind some of the formalities and findings of the Kosovo Commission, which, of course, the ruling coalition always brings out when it comes to discrediting or withdrawing or removing someone, in fact one formal reason that came right in this case, even though the officials of the National Assembly, members of this National Assembly have always appeared in the bodies of this Fund. Once again, Mr Brane Janc, Member of the three National Assembly calls, even the President of the Administrative Committee, and last but not least Mrs Silva Montenegro, and former Member Branko Kelemin, has been in these bodies. The intention to criminalize the work of this fund was also linked to an attack on business. The fund was successful all the time, it had a profit, in the most catastrophic year for securities, when the Slovenian stock exchange index slipped by 60%, the value of the Slovenian stock exchange index fell by 60%, the stock market dropped by only 11%. And that was the only key clue. Of course, it is clear that you want this money and that the expert is on his way.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u277	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members and we are moving on to the debate of Members and Members. The first one has the word Mr Franco Juri. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Dushan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u278	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I must say that I have already tried to warn members and members at the meeting of the Mandate-Volution Commission in some way that our task on the Mandate-Volution Commission is not to discuss the operation and functioning of the Fund. Our primary task was to discuss a decision adopted by an independent body in this country, which unfortunately adopted such a law and the law is in force, adopted by an independent independent body, not an opinion, a decision and put it into effect by Mrs Cizelj. In three months, Mrs Cizel has failed to implement this decision and has therefore turned to the Authority, and this is the National Assembly, which is responsible for this, because Mrs Cizelj has appointed this function. And all those who are talking today about the substantive salary, especially the former Minister of Economic Affairs, would warn him, the place of business of this fund is here, but should be proposed by the Commission for the supervision of public finances, and we will discuss and confront the arguments. But you don't do it. I would also like to discuss this substantively, and I will discuss it if this debate is to take place. And then we can say a lot of things about it. And those who say it's a political solution. What does 90 Members and Members of Parliament do here when we love, name and resolve us?Oh, my God! We are politically deciding this, but the question is, on the basis of which criteria we make these political decisions. And the difference between the previous term and the previous term is that you had party criteria, not political, party criteria for appointments, elections and so on. Now, of course, there are slightly different criteria. That's why pronunciation is on a professional larifari. And when you say that it is a fund, which is a parliamentary fund, something special by law, the fines are treated as all other funds. Regrettably, it is also very clear in this law, the management has these powers, the management board has these powers, and the supervisory board has these powers. And it's the exact same thing as everyone else, nothing special. We also adopted other laws in the National Assembly. If anyone is politicising and wants to have a political debate, it is those who have triggered this debate on the Commission's mandate. And that wasn't a coalition, that was the opposition. And once again, all we are discussing today is the decision of the authority that addressed us, because the affected lady of this decision of the body did not want to carry out within three months. Of course, we would not be discussing this today in this way if Mrs Cisleva's resignation statement, which she made in 2008, before the elections, had also come true. Or that the then commission for mandate-holders would do this to her will or wish. But she did not, and Mrs Cizljeva, after the elections, withdrew her initial withdrawal statement back. Why did she do it? Only she can answer it, or on her behalf, any other lawyer with a red phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, I'll give you time for a replica. No, in the debate. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Yes, the well-respected coalition will not disappoint us, because we know that this will again be an act in your human resources tsunami, which has been under way since the end of 2008 and you are trying to remove everything consistently, whatever comes your way when you share the electoral booty. And it is also clear here that this is how you want to get up to €145 million with what resources this fund has. That's more than obvious. You want to dismiss the president, Dr. Romano Jordan Cizelj, an international expert, a recognised nuclear physics expert who led this fund's board of directors more than successfully. Earlier, a Member of the Parliamentary Group, Zares, had tried to discredit how this fund worked disastrously. That's not true! The report on the work of this Fund for 2009, which has been reviewed and also confirmed, clearly shows that in 2009, which was extremely difficult for both economic and financial years, this Fund has been operating with 2.6% profitability, which is more than the 11-year average of this Fund since 1998 onwards. How, then, can someone so low try to discredit a person who has been so successful in running this fund? It means that the arguments are more than obvious that this is a political disqualification. In 2009, when we received a record deficit in Slovenia, or a new record will be reached in 2010, when we had almost 8% of GDP decline due mainly to the poor part of the entire coalition and also to the government, this fund worked well. But as we have already said, because Mrs Jordan Cizelj does not want these funds to be earmarked at the wishes of Mr Kopač, as well as coalitions or those of the Bots in the background, you will put it down in this way. The path you have chosen, how you will stop it, is known whether you are using the Kosovo Commission or the Court of Auditors. When it comes to your benefit, you find an excuse, even though he does not legally drink water. Mr Vizjak has already made it quite clear that this is not a fund that would be compared to a public fund, but a fund that he has set up with a specific law of the National Assembly. Why didn't you, Mr President of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, when we wanted to, ask you to get a legal opinion on this decision from the Kosovo Commission? Probably because this legal service would have given a completely different opinion than Mr Kos had. Mrs Jordan Cizelj obtained this opinion from a lawyer's house, where it is clear, by reference to our legislation, that such a decision is illegal and it is not true that she did not respond to Mr Kos's call. She responded, and in an arguably written a complaint, which Mr Kos rejected and persisted in his own case without arguments. Of course it doesn't. It is more than clear here that the aim is to put it down, regardless of legality. When you talk about the compatibility or incompatibility of this function. Why didn't you stop her before? In the previous term, this function took place when it could be said that it is even more controversial. When Mr Janc was a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, this fund was also managed by Mrs Jordan Cizelj. All those years ago, there were no incompatibilities. Everything was fine. Now that someone has come along to cross those goals, how these millions of euros will be re-analysed in a non-transparent way, as is now the practice, you will, of course, abandon it. This is not good for Slovenia, this is not good for this fund and I think the account that you will pay in the coalition will come sooner or later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mr. Tadej Slapnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Of course, I would immediately reject all Mr Viszak's suggestions on the intentions of the party Zares and would remind you of the times when the current director was appointed; I was also a member of the board of directors, along with then colleague Jordan, how he personally sought to obtain the Director's satisfactory support, including with me, as a member of the then appointed to this body of the National Assembly, not as a Member. I'd like to remind you what this was all about. This first step in the appointment of the current Director has followed, I think, the appointment of a prominent SDS member of Mr Kelemina as Chairman of the Supervisory Council and, in the next step, of colleagues of Jordan, as Chairman of the Fund's Management Board. It is said that the SDS party took this fund as its prey. And I can't help but see that this is exactly the logic that you're taking now and you're really telling us, as customers, that we're acting like you. So you had all three functions concentrated in one party, and in 2008 you produced about EUR 30 million in savings in line. In mentioning that this is something new now, and that it is only now that Mrs Jordan's anti-corruption commission is clear that Mr Janc is not at the time, but I must remember that Mr Janc has concluded his mandate by 2006, when he was no longer a member of the National Assembly and that the anti-corruption commission itself has been put on the table, I think that around 2003, 2004, and after that, certain activities have taken place. I would like to say personally, at the conclusion, that I highly appreciate Mrs Jordan as an expert, including as a member of the Management Board, and later as President. However, I was very disappointed that, in this role, she was very much defending this operation of the Fund over the past two years, and I think it is unjustifiable, as the Court of Auditors’ investigation, which, I think, came to the fund this year, will also show. At that time, we will be able to really assess these indications as to how this fund was operated when it was managed, supervised and also managed by representatives of the Slovenian Democrats' Party on the Administrative Board. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam. [[He won't.]] Mr. Willy Trophynik. [[He won't.]] Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u284	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In 2004, Romana Jordan Cizelj became a European Member. This was two months after Mr Kos was appointed to the National Assembly as President of the Anti-Corruption Commission. During that time, Branko Janc, a Member of the Liberal Democracy, was chairman of this board of directors. And I am also convinced that when Romana was appointed to the board of directors and elected, she gave Mr Kos all relevant information, as we are obliged to provide Members of the National Assembly. At that time, the Law on Members was in force and the Law on the Prevention of Corruption was in force. And if anything was disputed in June 2004, then Kosovo should clearly and unequivocally establish this for Romano Jordan Cizelj as well as for Member Branko Janca and for Member of the Social Democrats Silva Črnugelj. When re-elected as MEP last June, Romana Jordan Cizelj sent the relevant documents to the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Mr Kos. And even then, this committee didn't find out anything. It is precisely because of the fact that this happened at the Commission's invitation to dismiss the Member that we have requested twice on the Commission's terms of reference, in both debates, that the President of the Commission on Elections should invite Mr Kosa to the meeting of the Commission on Mandate. Just like the other proponents. Like a representative of the Judicial Council or, say, a representative of the Cabinet Office of the President of the Cabinet of the Republic when they propose their personnel proposals. He was not invited, you did not wish to invite Mr Kos to ask him about these reasons, how it is possible that he did not find anything controversial for five years, since the Law on Members and the Law on the Prevention of Corruption had not changed during this period. Mr Kos could easily identify any conflict of interest in all those 100 or 120 officials, members of the Slovenian Parliament, MEPs, ministers. However, he did not do so during this period. He didn't find anything. At that time, however, he easily examined 6,000 municipal councillors and found that some things were not reported or conflict of interest. It's interesting. Only after the expiry of the mandate did Mrs Silva Montenegro launch an action through the Kosovo Commission, certainly at the initiative of the party Zares, since this party obviously has great interests with this fund. We are promised, by what they predict, a similar scenario, as was the case with the Gas Tolar Act and with the petrol Tolar's means of purpose, because the funds collected have been spent for no other purpose, except a small part only to finance the motorway programme. And for this difference we had to hire expensive domestic and foreign loans and burden current and future generations. And we have a similar scenario here. And instead of making sure that the party is a government party and has good, strong interests in this area, in order for Croats to also provide a partnership part for the fund, for their part, there is now a prospect of spending resources, dedicated funds of the NEK decommissioning fund, for completely different purposes. Similar unintended consumption. However, when these investment funds need to be made and used, they will re-join collection or borrowing, bonds and similar financial frauds. I don't think the coalition's approach in this area is good. Nor do we agree that any way, by any decision, would allow funds deliberately collected for the management of the landfill of radioactive waste to be used for other purposes. Indeed, it can find many other resources within the budget for the purposes it actually wants. And also because it is a speculative approach, I oppose the decision of the Mandate-Voluntary Commission and the discharge of Romane Jordan Cizelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u285	Thank you. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Excuse me, Mr. Keck. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u286	Thank you for your word. I need to find out that the SDS party said too much about themselves. He's talking about the funds of the public fund as the loot, the loot that someone has and someone wants to take over. We don't understand the means as prey. If they understood them as the prey they had, that's their problem. We have also heard what is promised to this harmony. I don't know how you know what's coming. Maybe past experiences. The basic fact is that the incompatibilities of the two functions of Mrs Romane Jordan Cizel under the Anti-Corruption Act. And that's a fact and the only fact, and we're following it, that's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u288	That's right. This fund is a special fund and it is not true that this fund is a regular public fund. The Special Fund is due to the fact that Parliament and the current coalition's proposals were former Members, Brana Janc, among them as well, and the purpose of this Fund was to establish a special fund, not subordinated to the Government, for financial stability, stability, independence from government policies. That's why it's a special fund. This is why it is a special fund, where it also appoints the National Assembly of Key Authorities. And it is difficult and impossible to eliminate, or in some way to prevent, the impact of policy on this recruitment. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have placed in the previous mandate the bodies of this Fund people who are honest, professional and who know and are aware of the mission of this Fund. And it is because of the intentions that this government has expressed with the documents that we fear, not because someone would explain to themselves that it is prey because we fear that you see it as prey. In the document adopted by the Government, these are structural adjustments, in fact, committed, this money for entirely other purposes than the basic purposes of this Fund, both under law and under the Interstate Treaty. Read structural adjustments, this is a government document that was adopted about six months ago. And that's the problem. Another time. It's a fund-raiser. There have been a number of untruths mentioned here. The operation of the Fund is good and this has also been established by the Commission for the supervision of public finances, honourable Member. At the request of Members of Parliament, the Commission addressed the findings and also invited experts responsible for the expert opinion and provided a very clear position that the operation of the Fund was an average successful visa for the situation in which the Fund was located in 2008. In 2008, all stocks of securities, some for three times, some for four times, including the so-called Slovenian Bluechips, e.g. Telekom, Petrol. These are good companies, which are worth three times less today, I am talking about market value by stock on the stock market, as they were worth in 2007. And to say that these companies are actually three times less valuable today because they are their market value because public companies on the stock market are pure nonsense. Therefore, to say that the fund, because its market portfolio has changed so in 2008 due to changes in capital markets, global and domestic markets, is unjust that it is used as a political disqualification for the people who are there. The fund, however, had a positive business in all its years; it had a profit. It also follows from the 2009 business report that, already last year, it had an average return of 6.3% and that this has actually destroyed this decline in market profitability in 2008 already in fact in one year. It is an obvious desire to own part of the funds, because they are obviously running out of them elsewhere due to the economic crisis. Here there was another cash register where certain companies trading in securities and close to the client Zares could be supplied. My respectable colleagues in the SD are concerned that you can't see how cleverly those marginals in your coalition are cutting pretty pieces of cake, and of course the obvious and bad voice is falling on all of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u289	I don't know what you're going to propose procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u290	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to suggest, Mr Vice-President, that you stop such a debate, I think the competent authorities will be able to resolve these issues, which we are now hearing, from now on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u291	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u292	Wait a minute. [[..]] Today, we are talking about the resolution of a lady. Please, if we could talk about this, not about what the cops are going to be saving.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Believe me, during the debate, I have been thinking whether I would have interrupted or not, but I have decided not to interrupt this debate, because everyone will be able to assess what it means best. Mr. Bojan Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u294	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for not interrupting the debate. If my colleagues and my colleagues in the SDS didn't know, I'd get tears when I listen to how bad this coalition treats their people when it changes all three of theirs. Yeah, how did those three of yours get to these places? And there was nothing wrong with them being yours. Now that we are changing them or some of the mandates are expired, now fear. But why fear, I ask you, and why such a scrupulous defense of this situation, I wonder. But not from today on, it's money, as I've seen from your discussions. And you judge us with glasses that carry your dioptry, so I understand that you are afraid, respected colleagues and colleagues, but we will do differently. And when you talk about why incompatibilities have not been observed before. It's a matter of commission, but it's not a matter of the National Assembly and our Mandate-Election Commission. She was spotted, the president was warned, you wouldn't believe she even stepped down in the middle, and then you changed your mind. Here too is probably the result of the 2008 elections and your interest in staying in this place. That's probably what this is all about, I'm just guessing. But if you agree to this theory of yours, if the commission has not previously established the incompatibility, it must never be found again. Of course, that wouldn't be good. For example, when a passenger transports a red light, a policeman stops it, he wants to punish it, and this objection to him by carrying a red light a week ago and not punishing him, he doesn't know why now. That's your logic. It doesn't go along with that logic. Incompatibilities have been established by the Commission which is responsible for this. She warned the National Assembly that incompatibilities should be eliminated. For what? Because the President of the Management Board did not do this alone, although she was invited to do so. There was another option. I could resign as a European Member if you think it is so important to have this chair of the board of directors and to eliminate the incompatibility. And once again, because you've been messing around with half-truths or untruths today. Mrs Silva Montenegro, our colleague, was a member of the Supervisory Board. Let the board of directors separate from the board of directors! I don't think anyone who ran the economics department knows that. I think he is deliberately deceiving or trying to deceive us, but not us, because he knows that we will not fall for him, he wants to mislead the Slovenian public, but he will also find it difficult. We'll support the resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u295	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision whereby the functions of the President of the Management Board of the Fund for the Financing of the Decommissioning of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant and the disposal of radioactive waste from the Krško Nuclear Power Plant are resolved by Dr. Romana Jordan Cizelj. Explanation of voice. On behalf of the delegation, Mr. Vizjak? On behalf of the Group of Members. Anybody else want some? Mag. Visak, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u296	Thank you very much. The Group will oppose this resolution because it is once again one of the many human resources, political cleansings of the current political coalition and ruling suits. It is being corrected or managed by the current political representatives of the coalition and advocates the Commission's decision to prevent corruption, which they have actually called for this resolution to propose that they meet their political objectives with the Fund and with the money of this fund, which is contrary to the law and the Interstate Treaty. Some even replicate that we wrongly express that someone has been dismissed from the board of directors rather than from the board of supervisors, since this fund does not have a supervisory board at all. We could have read that a long time ago if we had read a report. He's got a board of directors. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] This is very important. [[...]] So, respectable. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u297	Please, let us conclude this debate with dignity. Mr. Vizjak [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u298	Dear colleagues, it is sad that you are undermining and disposing of experts from functions because they are resisting the political, biased demands of the Government after the operation of this fund. Mr Kopač, Director of the Energy Directorate, requested the Fund to amend its statutes, establish the investment policy of this Fund, and appoint and dispose of directors, according to the new Government. That's what the board of directors resisted, and that's why Mrs. Romana Jordan Cizelj had to go. It had to go a few months before the appointment of a new supervisory committee or board of directors, since it is also a candidate procedure for a new director. This resolution was not a matter of incompatibilities, this resolution is linked to the human resources policy of the current coalition, not to a coalition - only one party, it is the parties of the parties of the Republic of Slovenia, in Slovenian energy and specifically in this agreement. These are the right and specific reasons for these maneuvers, Your Honor. One more time. But I'm sore at the short-sightedness of the largest coalition party that it doesn't see how it messes with Slovenian energy this unfortunate part. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u299	Mr. Vizjak [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u300	Coalitions. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u301	You know, you used words that weren't right. Does anyone want to do it on their own? Whoever wants to discuss it on their own, please sign up. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u302	Thank you very much. I will support this discharge of Mrs. Jordan Cizel. Today we have had many discussions on how and how it is manipulated and how many truths and how many half-truths it is. And today, unfortunately, we had a chance to listen to something. The fact that the visual and administrative boards are not different and that they are manipulated in one way or another. Since the leader of the Group of Members, Bojan Kontič, has said well that I was not a member of the Administrative Committee, I would like to say in particular that I was elected and appointed by the National Assembly at a time when I was not a Member, which is an essential difference. And if we want to make the country transparent and legal, it is good that we also respect the laws. The law on the NEK decommissioning fund has been adopted by Parliament and is, as such, quite conservatively set up and I think it is good that we also respect this law and in one way prove to the Slovenian people and people that we know how to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u304	Thank you very much. If I had to decide whether a fund as important as this parliamentary fund should be invested in funds dealing with green energy or in speculative funds, whose managers I would look at in the criminal society in the evening reports, my decision would, of course, be completely simple. And this decision that we're about to make here today, given all the events that have taken place lately, is one of those. That's why it's so simple. I will vote in favour of this resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u305	Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u306	I have been following the work of this Fund since its establishment. Unfortunately, everything about this is today and has gained so much weight in the past year that someone would think that we are dealing with some big fund and some kind of fund that will really save what it is meant for. The tragedy is that when the power plant is to be shut down, not even 10% of the closing money will be collected. But it's not a problem. I do not attach to you and your arguments when I say that I will not support this decision. I'm not going to back him up because it just seems illogical, unreasonable, something that's being done here is kind of unnecessary. How long has Mrs. Jordan Cizel been in this line? When is her term due? A few months from now. Or is it really necessary to constantly pour on their fire to burn, and the counter counts this number I don't know where. And then there's the other one. If it were true that we were only voting or formally confirming the anti-corruption commission proposal, we would not be voting today. But if I have a "yes" and a "against" vote, then I can make up my mind. And under the circumstances that I've just been talking about, I'm not going to be "for" not "against". I will not support this proposal because I do not think it makes sense.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u307	Thank you very much. An explanation for Ivan Grill's voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u308	Thank you very much. I can't support this decision either, for a simple reason. If indeed what Mr Kos proposed was so clear, so transparent, then with the first proposal on the settlement proposal, I would have also referred Dr Romane Jordan Cizelj to his conclusion and to his reply. We didn't get that. When we first discussed at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, we discussed without adequate material and requested that we obtain an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service and legal experts. And we didn't get that until the second reading. After that, however, it was quite clear that with legal arguments in her complaint, Dr. Roman Jordan Cizel made it very clear that there were no legal grounds for incompatibilities. These things you're explaining here aren't really real. Here you mix apples, pears to try to fool the public. It is not true that this function would be incompatible. And that answer or that explains that Mr Kos has not so far revealed that this does not mean that he must not find out further. Why is Mr. Kos there? Why do we have to send complete forms to all the officials? That means he's waiting there for something to come up. She does her job or does not do it. But when he is told that he needs to find something, he will also find it if it does not have a legal basis. Thus, there are no valid arguments and we cannot under any circumstances support such a proposal for its resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of Franz Bogovich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u310	In listening to these discussions, I am extremely disappointed because I firmly believe that he holds exactly what Mr Anderlič said, there was no need for us to talk about this today in the National Assembly, but in peace I would have had so much patience to give people a mandate and then we could name their people, because it is a political appointment. I am also disappointed because, as mayor of the Krko municipality and at the same time as the Vice-President of the European City Association, we have nuclear power plants, I am very proud of Mrs Romana Jordan Cizelj to meet in Strasbourg, Luxembourg and also in Brussels with the top representatives of Detren and to have with me a European Ambassador from Slovenia, who was just in those weeks the European Parliament's highest representative in the field of energy. With so much nimble and so much desire for some political account with such eminent experts, with very great reputation in Europe, we are also doing ourselves a machete service on this European parquet. On this floor, Slovenia is recognised as one of those countries that has this arrangement, saying that the State Fund for the Management of Nuclear Waste, which is one of the best solutions. The European Directive has also tried to adopt a directive in this direction, and unfortunately a large European country has not been confirmed. However, the European Commission confirms that this is one of the best solutions. And from this point of view, I'm afraid of these interventions into this fund. As mayor of the Municipality of Krško, I have already intervened several times with the current Minister for Development, Mr Gaspari, as well as with the finance ministry, and also with those who have written in the declaration in the last year how this money will be needed. The answer from Krske is very simple: last year, the state spatial plan for the landfill was adopted as few butchers as possible, all together, who will use this money to butcher [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and we invest this money first in the construction of the landfill and later in the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant. I will vote against this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice of the Magi. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u312	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! If you were just looking at a time component, then maybe you could swing your hand and say so, because you're running out of time anyway. However, I will support this decision because it is a found incompatibility, and also because I do not accept an explanation of how the Fund should operate on average only because the investments of this Fund have fallen less than the average of others, and also because of the global economic crisis. Interestingly, when it comes to managing this fund, where the president is theirs, the global economic crisis is to blame for the value of the assets falling. When it comes to the country's problems due to the global economic crisis, then it is this political option and this government. I don't accept this kind of duplicity, and that's why I'm going to stick to the principle. If something doesn't go together, we have to break it up. I'll support the decision, not stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Is it still an interest? Please apply for explanations of vote on your own behalf. Explanation of Joža Tanko's voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u314	Thank you very much. In this case, it appears that the reasons for the discharge are already attracted to the hair. What Mr Kos proposed after five years of intensive work, verification of the officials of the National Assembly, the European Parliament, ministerial teams and so on, shows that this is a work that has no content, because it does not discover anything in time. In this case, a similar scenario has been identified as being chosen in the discharge of Minister Erjavac only this time as an independent institution, not by the Court of Auditors, but by the Kosovo Commission. And what is interesting about this is that the problem with this replacement is that Mrs Romana Jordan Cizelj does not come from the right end of Domžal. For all those key actors who have taken great interest in the release of Romana Jordan Cizelj come from Domžal. And Romana Jordan Cizelj is obviously a lady who lives on the wrong end. As far as the quality of work is concerned, the portfolio, investment, and so on, these results are significantly better than in Kad, where you have your people, significantly better than in the Court where you have your people, and this work is significantly better than in the former Governor and current Minister for European Affairs. There's nothing here that's lost. At the portfolio investment of the former governor and the current minister of your government, some EUR 30 million has disappeared irrevocably. In this case, the operation of the fund was nothing lost. These portfolio matters stand and are quoted better than the value of SBI-20 or what colleague Vizjak said, such as the quotation of the best Slovenian companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u315	Voice explanation, mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u316	I will vote against, in addition to the reasons for professionalism, it is also about the security of people in the final phase, including on the grounds of simple mathematics, which obviously has a lot of problems with the coalition, given the debate that was just before. The problem with the current power, that is, your authorities, is that if we take the European average, the fall in your time is twice as bad as the European average. But when it comes to the operation of this fund, it's five times better than the average. And if this fund were to operate as well as your authority, then you would have a 120% loss based on 60% loss of values that we had on average, given the fall, measured statistically with the value of the corresponding index. But in fact, business is five times better. That is to say, the logic that you have developed out of this is completely flawed, completely opposite, and it only testifies that we can only be the only thing that is grateful to that coalition member, sitting right across from me, who is explicit and clear about what this is all about. It's a political solution, that's all. Interestingly, however, you can’t even wait a few months for political wisdom to end its mandate on its own.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that in this story much more than a political or economic interpretation on the ground is legal. On 11.9, the Anti-Corruption Commission found that there was something wrong with the function performed by the European Parliament. She informed the European Parliament and gave her three months to decide. Since she did not make the decision, she invited the National Assembly, us, to do what is legally our duty. And the key question is not who is politically there, how he ruled. As far as management is concerned, the investment policy of such a fund has been planned and defined in advance. And this was not a venture capital fund, not a risk capital, not a equity capital, but was envisaged as a conservative policy bond fund. And that's not what the fund managers were up to. A key decision tonight and today is whether or not we respect the actual anti-corruption commission. That's all this is about. All other reasons are irrelevant. The rule of law alone is the right state and there are no other decisions to impose on the anti-corruption commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Procedural? You haven't had an explanation for your vote yet. Good. I'm asking you to sign up. Voice explanation, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u320	Thank you very much. I will oppose this decision because it is under cover: the only way is the right way. This is a staff replacement because it is at the head of the board of directors, a man who puts the profession ahead of the policy, who makes the right decisions before the political dictatorship they demand, now his, that is, the Ministry of Economy. That's the problem. True, the only way would be the right way. In this country, business suicides should not take place due to payment non-discipline; it should not happen that workers after more than a year do not get paid for their work when, in fact, many employees and businesses are sinking and falling, as there is an increasing social distress for people with very little reference to the rule of law. Here, when it comes to the interests of individual lobbyists within the coalition parties, how to get to the polls, the instruments are also used when friends are called in various commissions and courts to help and then there are arguments and convenient excuses for the legal path of human resources, political change. It's all about the appetite behind that money. That's what this government has made clear. The writer is the same as the proponent of this replacement. The writer of these appetites after this money is Mr Kopač, I have said this several times. However, to say that the operation of the Fund is unsuccessful is, of course, also denied by decisions made by the working bodies of this Parliament. The Commission for the supervision of public finances found that the operation and operation of the Fund was above average success.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-04-SDZ5-Redna-14.ana.u321	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 24. I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 14th session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you so much and good night.
