ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the 23rd meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Silva Črnugelj, Jožef Jerovšek, only Bevk and Bogdan Čepič. I welcome everyone here. We're moving on to 16. On the other hand, the proposal for a law supplementing the law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government in matters of the European Union, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of seven Members and Members, with Mr Anton Anderlic, the first to be signed. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the applicants. Mr. Anton Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u2	Nicely greeted! At first glance, it appears that this is a minor amendment to the law on cooperation between Parliament and the Government under the conditions of the European Union. It is true, however, that this is a very important change following the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon, whereby national parliaments are given greater powers and greater responsibilities for the formulation of different policies at European Union level, and thus it is said that we must also monitor the work of the European Union in the context of national countries and that this law allows for an action before the relevant courts within the European Union to be brought in the event of a subsequent infringement of subsidiarity. It is a matter of defining this in the law on the agenda. Some European Union countries are regulated in a way that we have drawn up ourselves in the proposal for laws, some slightly different, depending on the structure of their legal system. It is very important that we determine here who will represent the National Assembly or the Republic of Slovenia before a court. There have been many discussions on whether there can be different interests in such cases between the Government and the National Assembly. Finally, it was felt that even if the Government had a different position than Parliament, the decision adopted by the National Assembly was in force. The law authorises or lays down the duty on the State's defence to represent the State of Slovenia, in this case with a decision, instruction, with specific guidelines for the action being drawn up and also represented before the relevant courts. I think this is an opportunity, although there is no debate envisaged today, because no subsequent amendments have been tabled, after the committee has adopted the amended amendment, which has mainly taken the direction of improvement and clarity of the text, but it is an opportunity for us to consider whether our role in all the activities taking place in the European Union is such that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia accept this activity, we are in a position to really represent their interests, not only when it comes to working in the National Assembly and matters relating to legislation and taking action within the country, whether at parliamentary or at government level, but also to realize that we are all citizens, citizens of the European Union and within it we have the right and the duty to do what people think is bad, that we should be able and should be able to improve the functioning of the European Union, the Slovenian Parliament sees that we are all citizens, citizens of the European Union and within it we have the right and that we have the right to do what people believe is bad to do. In this part of the relationship between the Government and the National Assembly in the spring, I think we have already changed the law, where we have partially opened the meetings of the EU Affairs Committee, where we are always talking about things that are of public interest and also concern to the public because they have an impact on their lives, on their situation, on the satisfaction of any interests they have. I therefore believe that, despite the fact that there is no broader debate today, this will be an incentive for further reflection on how Parliament will play its role. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Vink Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Actually, I have a simple task. At its 25th meeting on 30 November this year, the Committee considered this proposal for a law. Opinions were given by the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government, the National Council of State Commission and the Commission of the State Council for International Relations, and we also had a letter from the State Defence Office. If I make it very simple, I will say so, the government was against, the State Council was against, and this time we Members were united and we fully endorsed the proposal of this law. We also had one amendment that followed the Legislative and Legal Service, so that the work was then relatively simple, but also rarely happens on the Committee, so that we vote in uniform. Of course, the text has been adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The government didn't sign up for the word. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u6	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Under the principle of subsidiarity, the European Union can act only if Member State measures cannot sufficiently achieve the objectives pursued – if measures at European level are more effective than national ones. The novelty of the Lisbon Treaty is the new role of national parliaments, which has also brought about the supervision of the implementation of the said principle of subsidiarity, which can be implemented in the early stages of the legislative procedure, and in the event of a breach of the principle, an action can also be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union. In doing so, Member States shall be allowed to regulate the way in which this power is exercised in their legislation. The proposal to supplement the law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in EU matters in the course of the added Article 11th precisely lays down the legal basis for the functioning of the National Assembly and the State Defence if it turns out that the procedure for the preparation of the action is necessary for the alleged breach of the principle of subsidiarity. The substance of the changes introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon is the independence of national parliaments in the assessment of subsidiarity, independent of the Government's opinion. The final text of the law's amendment is prepared in accordance with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the elimination of the dilemma concerning the question of the representation of the State defence before the court in the event of conflicting views of the Government and the National Assembly. In the DeSUS Group, we support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u8	Dear Mr. Vice President, your honors are here! The proposed amendment establishes a legal basis for bringing an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union when the National Assembly subsequently reveals a violation of the principle of subsidiarity by means of a European Union legislative act already adopted and published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The fundamental objective of the new Article 11a is to regulate cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government after the National Assembly has reached a conclusion that the legislative act of the institutions of the European Union has violated the principle of subsidiarity. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we support an arrangement whereby, in the case of different opinions between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government will represent before the Court of Justice of the European Union an opinion adopted in the form of a decision in the National Assembly. This means that, despite possible non-compliance with the position of the National Assembly in the drafting of the text of the action and in the proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Government cannot impose any different positions than those adopted by the National Assembly. Nor can he refuse to file an action for infringement of the principle of subsidiarity brought by the National Assembly. The Government is also obliged to inform the National Assembly of the progress of the proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union of its activities in relation to it and of the decisions taken by the Court. I believe that the proposed regulation is good, because in the current regulations the State Defence is the one that is the representative of the Republic of Slovenia before foreign and international courts. The proposed amendment, however, gives greater powers to the legislative body, irrespective of the division of power, as it represents the elected body of the people. The involvement of the Public Defence in the formation of the final text of the action becomes an implementation matter. Finally, the Slovenian National Party's Group would point out that it is also necessary to be aware of the duties of the Slovenian Parliament that it is also concerned that the powers vested in the Slovenian Parliament remain at national level. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u10	Your Honor! Initially, I represented the position on behalf of the applicants. I am pleased that virtually all parliamentary groups and most Members have already agreed in the previous stages, including the co-signature of this Act, that this is what we need under new conditions to make our work easier, to keep an eye on what the European Union is doing and to make our views known. It may also need to be emphasized here that this delimitation and consolidation of the independent role of the National Assembly vis-à-vis other branches of government, in particular with regard to the Government, is an essential emphasis to be kept in mind, as it is necessary to make sure that we are satisfied that the Government will already do what is within the competence of the National Assembly. Here we have the duty to follow, but we also have the right, and that is what is worth supporting. Members of the Liberal Democracy will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Franz Žnidaršič on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u12	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! The Solidarity Group will support the cooperation law between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in European Union matters. The Treaty of Lisbon adopted includes national parliaments in the decision-making of the European Union, thus improving the democratic legitimacy of the whole and bringing it closer to European citizens. Although there are several provisions in the Treaty of Lisbon in this regard, in the present case, the Protocol on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, which provides that the Court of Justice of the European Union is competent to rule on actions for infringement of subsidiarity by means of an act submitted by a Member State in accordance with the rules. National parliaments have the opportunity to include individual solutions in the legal order of the European Union already in the stage of creation and, in the event of a violation of the principle of subsidiarity, they may bring proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union. This law thus provides that the National Assembly may adopt a decision by reasoning and instruct the Government to draw up, in the framework of the guidelines it has adopted and in cooperation with the State Defence Office, the final text of the action and to bring it before the Court of Justice of the European Union. In this way, the National Assembly will carry out its supervisory role in the handling of European Union matters and will be able to ensure that European legislation is better and, on the other hand, certain powers will remain within the competence of the Republic of Slovenia without any transfer to European Union level. For these reasons, the parliamentary group will support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Lovtišar Bebler has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Treaty on European Union allows national parliaments and thus the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to actively contribute to the good functioning of the European Union by ensuring respect for the principle of subsidiarity. In accordance with European law, a Member State may, on behalf of its national Parliament, bring an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union for infringement of the principle of subsidiarity. Because of this competence, it is important to regulate the procedure before the situation arises when the National Assembly finds a violation of the principle of subsidiarity. It must not happen that we begin to wonder at what procedure, in fact, we can identify the infringement and, above all, who is the one who will bring the action on behalf of the National Assembly. It follows from this that it is the autonomous right of the National Assembly to regulate and specify the internal procedure by which it will actually exercise its competence. The proposed Article 11a deals precisely with this matter and this supplement is urgently necessary. Let me stress that it is not only a proposal for an article that is supposed to be of a purely formal nature, but that the article contains, in particular, the elements necessary to achieve the content and form of the decision in the National Assembly when the National Assembly considers that the legislative act adopted by the institutions of the European Union violates the principle of subsidiarity. The Group of Social Democrats will therefore support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Stefan Tisel on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u16	All present and welcome. Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! The exercise of the powers of the European Union shall be subject to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, in areas other than its exclusive competence, the European Union is only competent to act if Member States are unable to achieve the objectives pursued satisfactorily. However, in accordance with the principle of proportionality, the measures of the European Union must not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve the objectives of the Treaties. Here there is a soft advantage over binding law, directives against regulations, minimum harmonisation before full harmonisation. The basic objective of the law is to regulate cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia after the National Assembly has decided that the legislative act of the European Union has violated the principle of subsidiarity. A new article is added as the main solution to the draft law by laying down the legal basis for bringing an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union when the National Assembly subsequently discovers a violation of the principle of subsidiarity by means of a European Union legislative act already adopted and published in the Official Journal of the European Union. The proposal to supplement the law provides that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall draw up, on the basis of a decision, a mandate and guidance provided by the National Assembly in cooperation with the National Assembly and the State Defence Office, the final text of the action for the Court of Justice of the European Union. The substance of the changes introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon is the independence of the national Parliament in its assessment of subsidiarity, irrespective of the opinion of the national government. The Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group will support the proposed amendments to the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u18	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government, President! For the first time, the Treaty of Lisbon gives national parliaments a greater role in European Union matters in taking decisions by the European Union. At the same time, the democratic legitimacy of the entire European Union is improving, and the institutional balance between national and European level is also improving. The draft law lays down the legal basis for bringing an action before the EU court when the National Assembly finds a violation of the principle of subsidiarity by EU legislative acts already adopted and published in the Official Journal of the EU, as there is no such legal basis in the current Slovenian legislation. The Treaty of Lisbon gives new powers to national parliaments, which are encouraged to include and cooperate or monitor the process of adopting acts at an early stage of EU-level policymaking. And it is the new competences that, as a result, contribute to better law-making and greater compliance at EU level. In the event that the principle of subsidiarity is violated by a legislative act, the EU institutions may even bring an action before the EU court, which is also governed by the proposed law. The proposed law governs cooperation between the National Assembly and the State Defence Office after the National Assembly has adopted a decision to violate the principle of subsidiarity by means of a legislative act of the EU institutions. The decision by reasoning and the above-mentioned infringements shall be forwarded to the Attorney-General of the State and shall then bring an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union on the basis of guidelines and justifications. In the Group of Members, we really support such a solution, because it is important that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia also has formal powers or legal basis to point out violations of the principle of subsidiarity already in the European Union's adopted and published legislative acts. For all these reasons, we will truly support the law in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Nice greeting also from the former secretary general of the National Assembly, who is here with us today! The Slovenian People's Party will support the amendment of the cooperation law between the National Assembly and the Government on European Union matters for four main reasons. First time. The Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force before a good year, has made many changes compared to the previous Treaty of the European Community. In addition to numerous institutional changes and the provision of greater protection of human rights, it has also extended the competence of national parliaments in the adoption of legal acts, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, with a desire to enhance the level of democracy of the Union. Another time. For the first time, national parliaments have played an important role in the creation of European law, which was until the Treaty of Lisbon was put into effect under the exclusive competence of the governments of the Member States. Third time. Respect for the principle of subsidiarity is one of the main indicators of society's democracy. Respect for the principle of subsidiarity is one of the main indicators of society's democracy. I didn't make a mistake and read it twice, but I did it on purpose. It is therefore stipulated that democratic decision-making under the system is carried out from below, saying that the lower level of authority should be responsible for those matters or that it should perform those tasks that it can perform more effectively than the higher level of authority. We also face the principle of subsidiarity in the field of local self-government, as this principle represents a fundamental philosophy of the principle of local self-government in modern democracies, which must be based on quality public services for the local population. That's what we're going to talk about at point three today. However, in the case of the European Union, this principle means that the Union acts in areas other than its exclusive competence only where Member States cannot sufficiently achieve measures at national, regional or local level and those measures are more easily implemented at Union level than provided for in Article 5 of the Treaty on European Union. Protocol No 2 to the Treaty of Lisbon on the application of the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality provides that all draft Union legal acts shall be forwarded by the European Commission to the national parliaments. However, in the event of a violation of the principle of subsidiarity, a Member State may bring an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union on behalf of the national Parliament in accordance with its legal order. Fourth time. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposed law adequately lays down procedures in the event of infringements of the principle of subsidiarity. The State's defence, as a representative of the State before foreign and international courts, will issue an appropriate reasoned decision, draw up the final text of the action and also bring it before the Court of Justice of the European Union, once the National Assembly has established a violation of the principle of subsidiarity. It will also, of course, be necessary to inform the National Assembly of all proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union. At the time of the legislative procedure, the law amending the amendment, which took into account the opinions of the State Defence and the Legal and Legislative Service, was amended accordingly and in accordance with the applicable legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will not oppose the bill and we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. Voting on the bill will take place on Monday, 20. 12. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE OFFICER OF THE STATE CONGREGATION, RELEVANT PROCEDURE. The proposal for amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly was submitted to the assembly by a group of eight Members and Members, signed by Anton Anderlic. I give the floor to the representative of the applicants, Mr Anton Anderlich, for further explanation of the Amendments and the Supplement to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u22	Your Honor! The amendments to the Rules of Procedure are more extensive than changes to the law. In particular, the Rules of Procedure had to address the issue of control over the implementation of the principle of subsidiarity, secondly, the possibility of initiating an action in the event of a violation of the principle of subsidiarity in relation to the legislative act, thirdly, the issue of the initiatives of the European Council, in particular Article 48, 7th point, of the Treaty on European Union, and the question of the accession of candidate countries to the European Union. It was also necessary to point out in some way that, in the work so far, the National Assembly - of course, I am talking about the conditions of the European Union - did not respond sufficiently to those fundamental questions about how to deal with different content, since the parent labour bodies did not generally address the content that they should have before the competent labour body took a position on the proposed procedures or proposed content. That is why in this part, even with the example of some other parliaments, which have a particular focus on the working bodies and the treatment of the content in terms of the competences of these bodies, it is only on the competent working body that the position becomes final. In our country, it has rarely happened that certain working bodies have dealt with certain content. The Rules of Procedure now stipulate that – and must be considered – it is not possible to "may" as it is now, depending on the will of individuals, whether the presidents or the interested members of the working bodies have put a question on the agenda or not. Those of us who worked on the amendment proposal – as well as the proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure – were also prepared by a working group composed of representatives of parliamentary groups, a coalition club and also from opposition parliamentary groups – we felt that this could not be a free judgement of the President or of someone from the working body, or whether it should be dealt with or not, but that it must be done, even if only with the conclusion that it agreed with the content and would not be dealt with, but the competent working body must receive a message from the parent working body. As we have said, when we have also reviewed the arrangements of other parliaments, the weight at this stage of consideration is highest. So much for presenting the proposal. Now I would present the position of the business commission if I could.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u23	Here, you have the floor, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The business commission has just accepted what I have just presented as a basis for change. However, we had to complement some things in the debate itself, because of the amended text at the Internal Policy Committee meeting, when we talked about the law, where we adopted the report and only the initiative to change the law, so this is something that is more, so to speak, editorial in nature, which is new from the proposal at the time of submission. As I said before, the discussion revolved around how the National Assembly, the parent working bodies and all those who must participate in the proceedings, particularly the role of the State Council. The Council of State had a proposal for an amendment that had not been formally written, but only provided a substantive explanation of how they pictured themselves in order to ensure a greater role for the initiatives of the Council of State. The answer was that, just as now, it was desirable for the State Council, on all the issues on the agenda, to have a preliminary opinion, or in the process, both on the home working body and on the competent working body, come with its views, which are dealt with in the same way as any other opinion that comes on the agenda for the consideration of any act. Above all, we are talking now about the European Union's affairs, not so much about everyone else, but we were of the opinion that there was no need to write anything further, more broadly in the Rules of Procedure, but to leave open the possibility for the participation of all, including civil society, the various public, and so on in the formulation of individual legislative or other acts of the National Assembly. Finally, it was recommended that the National Assembly adopt a proposal for a Rules of Procedure, which is a necessary two-thirds majority, which is an additional reason for all – because the content concerns all Members – to include and deal with these matters with all responsibility.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The government's representatives are not listed. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u26	Once again, everyone, say good-bye! The proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall include a more detailed regulation of the procedures in the National Assembly concerning the powers conferred by the Treaty of Lisbon, the Protocol on the role of national parliaments in the European Union and the Protocol on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. The main solutions are: the mandatory involvement of the home labour bodies in the handling of matters of the European Union already in the legislative process at European Union level; the process of exercising control over the application of the principle of subsidiarity in the draft legislative acts of the institutions of the European Union; the procedure of action for infringement of the principle of subsidiarity by means of a legislative act of the institutions of the European Union; the examination of the European Council's initiatives; the consideration of the proposal by the Council of the European Union; the examination of requests for accession to the European Union; the participation in the mechanisms for assessing the implementation of the policies of the European Union within the area of freedom, security and justice; the involvement in Europol's political oversight; and the evaluation of Eurojust's activities. This raised the primary question of the appropriateness of adopting amendments and supplementing the Rules of Procedure at this time, in view of the fact that the amendments to the Treaty of Lisbon have been announced. The Treaty of Lisbon has been written for some other better times, and now these times are changing, so we can expect some changes to be made to the Treaty of Lisbon itself. Nevertheless, the applicant explained that the proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure was prepared on the basis of the existing Treaty of Lisbon, which was still in force in its unaltered form, so it is appropriate to adopt the proposal and allow Parliament to exercise its powers under the current Treaty. The proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure gives the national Parliament a greater role in the process of exercising control over the principle of subsidiarity, which has been brought to national parliaments by the Treaty of Lisbon. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are an internal act of Parliament, and its amendments and additions have therefore been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the proposed law on supplementing the law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union. We will support both acts in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties. However, despite the fact that the Treaty of Lisbon gives the national parliaments a formal role in taking decisions in the European Union, the Slovenian National Party's Group would point out that, above all, it is up to the parliaments themselves how much they will actually participate in the decision-making of the European Union. At the same time, it is worth noting that the establishment of a legal basis without the actual will of cooperation is completely without effect.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Anton Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u28	Members of the Liberal Democracy will support the proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure, because we believe that the role of the National Assembly must always be stressed also under the conditions of operation in the European Union and, above all, that certain matters relating to the life and work of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are being dealt with substantively. However, it seems that today we are dealing with two dry legal arrangements, which are so-called non-individual, but which provide the basis for a better operation, so there is no doubt about the vote. As we say, we will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Franz Žnidaršič on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u30	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is fully intended to introduce provisions relating to the law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in matters of the European Union. The proposal details the procedures in the National Assembly concerning the powers conferred by the Treaty of Lisbon, the Protocol on the role of national parliaments and the Protocol on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. The adoption of amendments and the completion of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly will enable the National Assembly to exercise the powers laid down in those acts and laws, which will therefore be adopted. The Solidarity Group will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kolarič has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The adoption of the Lisbon Treaty for the first time formally involves national parliaments in the decision-making of the European Union and consequently improves the democratic legitimacy of the EU as a whole. National parliaments can, through their proactive action at early stages of decision-making at European level, when EU legislative proposals are still in the process of drafting, contribute to the better functioning of the EU, co-create European legislation and monitor its compliance with the principle of subsidiarity. Of course, we know the most important provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon, so I will not quote them again because this has already been discussed today. However, since this adopted European legislation brings changes to the increased competence of national parliaments, it is of course essential that we adapt our legislation in order to adapt our own regulations, amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We will support the changes in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Stefan Tisel on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u34	Good-bye to all of you. Mr Vice President, Members, Members of Parliament, all present! The main objective of the proposed amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is to arrange cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On the one hand, amendments are intended to ensure the effective involvement of the National Assembly in decision-making processes at European Union level, in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon and, on the other hand, to increase the activity of the home labour bodies in the handling of matters of the European Union which are already in the legislative process. More important solutions to the proposed additions and amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are as follows. Firstly, the compulsory involvement of the home labour bodies in the handling of matters of the European Union which are already in the legislative process at European Union level. Secondly, the procedure for exercising control over the application of the principle of subsidiarity in the draft legislative acts of the institutions of the European Union. Thirdly, the action for infringement of the principle of subsidiarity by means of a legislative act of the institutions of the European Union. Fourthly, participation in the evaluation mechanisms for the implementation of the policies of the European Union within the area of freedom, security and justice, involvement in Europol's political control and evaluation of Eurojust's activities. The substance of the changes introduced by the Treaty of Lisbon is the independence of the national Parliament in its assessment of subsidiarity, irrespective of and beyond the national government's judgement. The Treaty of Lisbon gives national parliaments a formal role in taking decisions in the European Union, and what this role will be, and depends primarily on the national parliaments themselves, how and how they will participate. According to the proposaler, there is a need for precise and consistent regulation in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since we have not known such procedures and options, such as an action for infringement of the principle of subsidiarity, the participation of national parliaments at European Union level and the national regulation so far. We will therefore support the proposed changes to the Rules of Procedure in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, president! The relationship between the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the procedures for the adoption of legal acts and decisions of the European Union is governed by a law which is also the subject of today's meeting, namely the Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union. The Government is the one representing, enforcing and representing the position of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly only participates in the process of adopting legal acts and decisions in the European Union but through the Government. But with the Treaty of Lisbon, we are moving forward. This has strengthened the role of national parliaments, since they are formally involved for the first time in the process of adopting European legislation. It is precisely the changes and additions to the rules of procedure which are before us today that ensure the effective involvement of the National Assembly in EU decision-making processes in accordance with the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon. All of this, however, results in greater activity of the home labour bodies in addressing EU matters already in the legislative process. Moreover, the Treaty of Lisbon also improves the institutional balance between national and European level. It is the changes and additions to the Rules of Procedure that lead to the implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon. In this way, the involvement of labour parent bodies in the handling of EU matters already in the EU legislative process will be mandatory, and the process of exercising control over the application of the subsidiarity principle already in the draft legislative acts of the EU institutions will be further specified, and the procedure for violating the principle of subsidiarity by means of a legislative act of the EU institutions will also be specified. Amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly bring about greater involvement of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and its home labour bodies in the procedures for the adoption of acts of the European Union, thereby significantly increasing the role of national parliaments, all of which brings greater coherence in the adoption of legislative proposals of the European Union. For all the above reasons, we will indeed have some necessary amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and all present! A good year ago, the Treaty of Lisbon entered into force and this Treaty for the first time formally includes national parliaments in the decision-making of the European Union. Under this Treaty, as we know, national parliaments can contribute to the better functioning of the EU, especially through proactive and substantive action at the early stages of European decision-making when the proposals for European Union legislative procedures are still in the process of being drafted. However, it depends primarily on the parliaments themselves, how and how much they participate in this. Therefore, precise and consistent rules of procedure are necessary. And since we, too, are co-signers of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we see no reason, or vice versa, that we would not support these amendments and additions today. However, we expect some problems mainly in the timely transmission of materials to the National Assembly, which also obliges the Government to take a more serious approach, but this is a preliminary point that we have already considered. As we say, in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh is also on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are linked to the new competences of the national parliaments whose role under the Treaty of Lisbon, the Protocol on the Role of National Parliaments and the Protocol on the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the adoption of decisions of the European Union are substantially changed in favour of the democratic, design and control of legislative acts at Union level. In this respect, a proposal for a new Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government and a proposal for a new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are being considered at this meeting. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are an internal act governing the legal basis for the functioning of the legislative body and should therefore be adapted accordingly when new powers are added. Amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall ensure the effective involvement of the National Assembly in decision-making processes at European Union level. In this respect, however, the activity of the parent committees in the handling of European Union matters is increasing. In the DeSUS Group, we support the content of the amendments and the addition of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended proposal and the completion of the Rules of Procedure have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading. The vote on the proposal for amendments and the updating of the Rules of Procedure will take place on Monday, 2010-2010, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY — FIRST DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A COMPLETE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT LEGISLATION, ORIGINAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of ten Members and Members, with first signed by William Trofenic, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to complement the explanation of the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Minister, Dr. Henrik Gjerkesh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Regional development differences in Slovenia are not decreasing and the crisis has further highlighted some weaknesses. It has caused a disproportionate deterioration in social and economic conditions, to the greatest extent in the areas most lagging behind in development. The existing law does not have systemic answers to the development problems that have escalated in tight economic and financial conditions. The existing regional policy faces conceptual underdevelopment and almost fully reduces European cohesion policy, with an emphasis on investment, while reducing the coordinated economic, social and territorial components of cohesion. This is also illustrated by the adoption of an intervention law for Pomurje, which, in particular social conditions, was an appropriate and necessary response by the State to the development problems in the region, but illustrates the inability to resolve regional development problems within existing legal frameworks. On the other hand, development intervention laws represent a singularity in regional policy and a risk of replacing regional development policy in a non-systemic way, without strategy and consistent implementation. This is also why, in particular because of the need for appropriate legal bases that will enable the implementation of the new paradigm of regional policy, we have approached the preparation of a new law on the promotion of coherent regional development. The solutions that we are proposing give the regional policy its invaluable development role back in the context of the modern concept and, in an equivalent way, address the need for intervention development laws that have given some areas or regions a warning of their developmental problems this year. The new paradigm of regional policy is based on a multi-military partnership dialogue and brings territorial and time-bound instruments. The proposal for a new law offers flexible solutions and dynamic measures that we need to respond to crisis situations. Empowerment to a more effective regional policy is implemented through endogenous regional policy measures, such as co-financing of regional projects in line with regional development agreements, additional measures for district border problems and additional temporary measures for areas with currently increased high unemployment and coordination of development policies that have a significant impact on regional development through territorial development dialogue. Through regional policy, we want to accelerate the process of decentralisation in the area of development, but of course it is not possible to go beyond the limit which means that we do not have a province in Slovenia. I would like to point out that the proposal for a law promoting coherent regional development does not address the administrative and administrative division of Slovenia. New legislation in the area of regional development can only be based on the competence of the municipalities and the state to design and implement regional policy. Since there is no landscape as a natural operator of an activity that is interestingly linked to the activity of coherent regional development, it introduces a proposal for a law-based institution to carry out this activity. The relationship between regional policy and other sectoral national policies is extremely important. Regional policy alone cannot effectively address all development problems. It is a fact that sectoral policies often operate in an unrelated manner and take little account of regional development objectives. Regional policy will become a more effective coordinator of development policies, which will also greatly help to achieve the objectives of more coherent regional development. This is a proposal for a Council for the Territorial Coordination of Development Initiatives, led by the President of the Government. On the other hand, horizontal sectoral coordination must necessarily be complemented by a vertical component, i.e. by an endogenous regional policy from below, with which areas or regions will identify their problems, take responsibility for their resolution and find financial and human resources for them. A key regional and strategic decision-making body will be the development council of the regions, which will bring together the broadest interests, consisting of mayors, representatives of the economy, NGOs and prominent individuals. The objective of regional policy is to overcome bottlenecks in sectoral development by complementing measures that pursue territorial development objectives. Above all, regional policy must wake up, disperse regions, connect and design internal development impulses and create the necessary conditions for sectoral policy action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. Well welcomed, Mr. Minister, presidents, colleagues and colleagues! We are witnessing significant regional differences in Slovenia. Analyses point to the vast developmental diversity of Slovenian municipalities and regions, which have been showing for decades in some densely populated areas, where most of the population, jobs and economic operators, as well as large areas characterised by less development, sparse population and weak development potential. Thus, in spite of other efforts, it is evident that regional differences are on the rise. This is illustrated by the relationship between the most and least developed region measured in gross domestic product, as well as the situation of real regional capital growth, educated jobs, research and development, in which the guidelines for the creation of some of Ljubljana's more influential development centres are noted. Although GDP has increased in all regions in recent years, the highest growth rates have reached more developed regions, further exacerbating regional development. The composition of the economy is also decisive, especially if the region has a low diversity of industries, which also makes job offers low. There are also large regional disparities in unemployment. The most affected regions have long gone far beyond the national average: Pomurska, Podravska, Koroška and Zasavska region. Since 2001, Slovenia has been promoting regional development by channelling budgetary resources to priority areas of regional policy. These were, in particular, areas with specific development problems identified at the level of municipalities and regions A and B, provided by guidance on priority areas for the allocation of incentives. The group of regions A included those with the lowest level of development: Pomurska, Podravska, Zasavska, Podnjeposavska. The list of regions B includes Savinjska, Koroška, Notranj-kraška and South-Eastern Slovenia. In particular, the priority areas were focused on direct regional incentives that carried out many good regional projects. These have been intersectorally coordinated and implemented in the areas of entrepreneurship, environment and space, human resources, culture, tourism, municipal infrastructure and local road network. Special attention was paid to Sosoča and Zasavje, where direct regional incentives were implemented under the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Earthquake Reconstruction and Promotion of Development in Sosoča and the Law on Gradual Closure of Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. An important part of the direct regional incentives was the Phare programme, which implemented aid programmes for Pomurje, Zasavje and Savinja statistical regions in 2003, as well as cross-border cooperation programmes with Austria, Italy and Hungary. This year, several waste water management projects have been re-launched. An important part of the incentives was aimed at adapting Slovenian administrative structures to drawing on the European Structural Funds. Empowerment to a more effective regional policy requires the definition of regional policy as a structural policy that includes development activities and programmes to achieve coherent regional development and is implemented through coordination of development policies that have a significant impact on regional development through territorial development dialogue and involve endogenous regional policy. In order to plan and implement regional policy, the State and the municipality are responsible, the Government exercises the powers of the State, the powers of the Government exercise the ministries and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy, the municipalities coordinate their development interests and exercise the competence to plan and implement regional policy in the development region by establishing the development world of the region. The fundamental territorial unit for planning and implementing regional policy is the development region. The border municipality may decide to participate in the neighbouring development region, but the area of the development region does not change during the programming period. However, regional policy can also be planned and implemented at regional level if the development partnership area is established. Regional projects requiring critical mass are designed and coordinated in a wider area of several development regions. The law establishes a flexible principle of a multi-military territorial approach and subsidiarity whereby functions are performed at the territorial level most appropriate for them. The programming period for the implementation of regional policy is set in the same way as for the development strategy of Slovenia and European Union legislation, with a period of implementation of each European Union financial perspective. The bill allows for all legal forms of organisation, parts, institutions, public institutions, public agencies. We believe that the current situation must be taken into account that the legal forms of organisation of development agencies are different, and this is clearly based on different conditions and modes of organisation across regions, so that they can also be uniformly hampered by the functioning of these institutions. On the other hand, the dominant public interest must be ensured, which would not be achieved in the majority private ownership of development agencies that are private legal persons. The proposer therefore decided on a compromise version which combines the advantages of different models but allows regions to be flexible enough to express their specificity. We have also taken into account the argument of lower costs for the state budget. Only the public legal form and the transformation of the current parts would require a greater share of public co-financing and open up some legal problems in the transformation, which could result in the loss of some of the public funds already invested in the existing network. We are of the opinion that the required majority ownership of the public sector in development agencies, which are parts of it, ensures the realization of public interest and the elimination of various conflicts of interest, but that the legal form itself is less important. The development agency must represent the public interest, which is to be achieved by requiring a dispersed ownership structure in which the state and the municipalities have a majority share and the economy is also an important part of this tripper child. The question of whether regional development agencies should be private or public is not the most important. Experience in recent years has shown that according to the legal form, most agencies are private, limited liability companies, but are not profitable and as such adequately represent the public interest. Slovenia certainly needs stronger development agencies than it now has if it wants its regions to compete with those in neighbouring countries. Their task must, on the one hand, be to promote, cooperate and represent the Slovenian economy and Slovenian culture in the wider European Union. On the other hand, through their network of development agencies and centres, they must also take care of the development of regions and problem areas in the regions. The strengthening of development agencies is therefore seen more than the integration of existing regional resources into the regional development network. In the LDS, we will therefore support the proposal for a law, and in the next step, we will carefully examine the individual solutions of the law, such as the composition of the regional development councils, and possibly improve them further in cooperation with coalition partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Today, the Minister's position has already been expressed with concern, which is clear that regional development differences are not diminishing. More. Not only are they not shrinking, but they are increasing, to cities even exponentially, so that they are getting bigger and the concern is therefore so much greater and so much more justified. Therefore, there are also very different answers to this question, how to ensure more coherent regional development. And the differences begin immediately. First of all, when it comes to the definition of what is, in fact, compliance, which is the right measure of compliance, because it is simply a redistribution of what has been created. And since it is a redistribution, a redistribution of value creation, it is clear that there are very different interests in this regard. Another fundamental question is how to understand development itself. We know that we do not all understand it in the same way that some understand it more than simply growth, some in a more noble sense of development. And it is also a matter of developing that the effects are measured according to the cartridges. In doing so, many assess whether these inputs might not have been more appropriately distributed than is foreseen by some of the solutions that have been proposed so far. These solutions, these offers, how more coherent regional development is supposed to take place in our country, have been quite something. One of the experiments was the establishment of landscapes. We know how this establishment of the provinces of the relative slaughterhouse ended with a referendum. And even in this mandate, when the attempt to establish the landscapes as one of the important objectives was set, it soon proved to be an impossible mission. In this mandate we will certainly not have this, and the question is when will there be enough political power and will to compromise that will lead to the establishment of the provinces. Other and other attempts to reduce these differences are intervention laws that we have already experienced. We've experienced a few of them in this way that they were presented in more closed circles and ripped into drawers. There were some who came to the tables of the National Assembly, and they were rejected here, and one of them actually succeeded in being accepted in the National Assembly. [[I mean the one who's talking about Pomura.]] and which results will probably be more objective only after a while. The third experiment is an experiment with the law on promoting coherent regional development. That's the law we have. Some estimate that it did not bring the expected results, others that it worked well enough and that it does not simply need to be replaced. This bill, which we now have on the table, has actually come across an unpleasant reception, with some harsh rejections. Representative organisations in local communities have found that they do not need to accept it, even reject it and propose a mere novelty. Some others, individual congregations, municipal congregations in particular, spoke with their voices that the congregations were thus lost because they were moving to a different level, and again they did not like it. A number of comments also came from regional development agencies and also from the economy, as far as it was involved in the preparation and discussion itself. We could say that this is a poor journey for this bill, but in the non-aligned Members' Group, Solidarity will be considered appropriate to further process and that what is possibly bad and what can be improved in the procedures that follow will also be done. We support him for a basic idea, if we understand it correctly. The basic idea is the idea of endogenous development, not importing development through financial injections that have no real basis and comparative advantages in some regional or local environment. This idea of endogenous development is based on our judgment on identifying the development potentials of the environment and on the fact that these development potentials are also being updated, so that we turn them into potential ones, in a way that we link them horizontally and that they are supported by the State, also by priorities to be set at national level in relation to investments and other priorities relating to the development programmes of the individual environment. Let the country be proactive about this. Not only should it wait and monitor what will happen from the internal potentials, because they are sometimes too modest, but they are not critical enough to be up-to-date, so the country must also take part in this search for these potentials and later in trying to implement development initiatives. We basically support the idea, but there is a whole series of problem sets that we cannot talk about today when it comes to general treatment, but we can at least mention some of them. What is problematic, at least for us in the Solidarity Group, is the dispersion of how the main actors, and the development council of the region is one of such entities, presenting these identified development potentials and who should represent them. This leads to some kind of polarisation of understanding of who this human development potential is. Whether they are representatives of local political authorities, whether they are mayors and mayors, or whether they may be those who bear real economic, economic development, those who create value, as we can see from some estimates, also from the assessments of representative organisations representing local communities, should only be silent observers. It was supposed to be those who would only monitor and in some way verify what the political local authorities would present as developmental potentials. We in the Solidarity Group are certainly not in favour of leaving all decision-making power to the political authorities alone and putting economic operators at the brink. If something like this had happened, then we would not have the authentic development interests presented, driven by economic interest as well. And this economic interest is the real development interest. However, it needs to be able to coordinate this policy, it needs to find appropriate compromises, but it is simple to know that policy is the one that does not directly create a reallocation of what has been created, but rather a redistribution through identified development programmes. That is why we will advocate for the proper representation of the economy at all levels of decision-making, and this will also be one of the key moments that will affect how we, as a whole, will support the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr László Göncz has the floor on behalf of the Group of National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u48	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! The Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities supports the preparation and adoption of a proposal for a law promoting coherent regional development, as it will be able to contribute to strengthening the development power of the regions on the basis of its own development potential and global opportunities. We estimate that the proposed system law with certain essential substantive supplements could make a significant contribution to bridging the problems that arise in various forms due to the significant developmental differences between areas in the Republic of Slovenia. This is our position in general. We point out, however, that the legal provisions are not transparent in terms of the rights and actual needs of national communities. The solutions proposed are very weak and also formal. Article 14 of the bill follows to some extent our comments on the coordination framework in the drafting of the law to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy. Our view is that this article is very loose and flawed. By the way, let me say that the terminology used in the new Article 14 is also not in line with the applicable Slovenian legal practice. Given the level of legal protection of indigenous national communities in the Republic of Slovenia, we were very concerned when the area of national communities was completely abandoned from the context of the working text of such important development law. In the bill we are considering, this content, as I said before, is poorly defined. The current law on the promotion of coherent regional development has dealt with this issue more consistently than in its entirety. We rightly expected the new law to upgrade the situation so far, particularly in the light of the fact that this area was in practice very inconsistently realized, and consequently there were no results in this area. Undoubtedly, it is important that development regional programmes take account of the specifics of national communities and of the areas where they live. But just taking into account is not enough. The legal basis for the activities of the national communities as operators of economic policy in national mixed areas should be ensured. There is also a need to find a way to implement the constitutional provision to ensure the economic basis of the indigenous national community. The proposed provisions do not provide for this function of the national community. I reiterate that Article 64 of the Constitution of Slovenia stipulates that the Italian and Hungarian national communities and their members are also developing economic activity in support of the preservation and development of their national identity. Due to past social, political and social processes, the indigenous peoples' indigenous communities have in fact lost their own economic base and thus depend primarily on national budgetary resources and the possible assistance of the home country. As the current model for the development of the economic base has not yielded the expected results, we have rightly expected, as I have already stressed, that the new law of the current inconsistencies and shortcomings will at least be remedied to some extent. We call on the Government Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Development or the Government to cooperate with the national communities in the process of adopting the new law to remedy these shortcomings. On the basis of the views of the organisations of the Hungarian and Italian national communities, we will propose amendments in the framework of the Commission for National Communities in particular from this point of view in favour of the substantive upgrade of the bill. Autochthonous national communities will only be a stable economic base for an important entity in the development of areas where they reside, as well as in the deepening of cross-border cooperation between border regions. Both communities must also become development partners in their regions in practice, which, in the pursuit of their own development interests, should be linked and, together with other partners, should take decisions on the principle of sustainable regional development. The national self-government communities are a founding entity – i.e. persons governed by public law – and therefore they must also be holders of regional policy tasks, which should be taken into account in the proposed development-oriented law. The new law should also take over the legal situation already achieved when both communities appoint at least one representative to the development council of the region where they live. In view of this, we will most likely abstain from voting in the context of the first reading of the proposal and thus point out the necessary additions to the proposed legislative text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Kampuz has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u50	Dear Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Since Slovenia's independence, social democrats have placed a special place in the process of preparing and eliminating policies to take care of the development and strengthening of the importance of local self-government. In particular, in times of deepening economic and financial crisis, we agree that local communities need to be established as key actors for a better quality of life for people, the revitalization of the economy, the preservation of the natural environment, while at the same time seeing a growing step in the development of individual regions. This requires a change in regional policy with the aim of achieving a more equitable development of the development of Slovenia. The regional development differences in Slovenia are not diminishing. The economic and financial crisis has further highlighted the weaknesses of the existing model. Slovenia therefore needs a new law on promoting coherent regional development that will respond to the needs of all areas facing development problems. Inadequate communication between national and regional levels, gaps in horizontal communication and development coordination between individual ministries, state agencies and also between development institutions and businesses in the regions are causing an implementation deficit in regional development where informal institutions, despite a well-established formal framework in the law on the promotion of coherent regional development, do not work. This has also led to a poor use of European funds in the past. The interest of the state institutions must be to apply for as many good projects as possible but not to increase the dissatisfaction among applicants due to the many unclear and changing rules and complexity of bureaucratic procedures. The new law is also based on experience from Pomurje, brings solutions in the same way and will ensure more coherent regional development throughout Slovenia. The proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development will allow the use of an extended range of regional policy instruments in areas with development problems. Solutions shall be drawn up in order to equalise the conditions for problem areas if specific conditions such as those of Pomure arise. The bill sets out two types of problem areas: the borderline problem area and the high unemployment area, which were also most affected by the economic crisis. Analysis shows that typical development problems tend to concentrate in the border area. Through specific measures and State aid schemes, regional policy in these areas aims to strengthen the border belt with new investments and the possibility of new employment and to create opportunities for improving demographic imagery in strategically bordered areas. The border problems of the areas are also covered by municipalities that show significant distance from key roads and a high share in Natura2000, which will also contribute to the achievement of environmental objectives. In border areas of concern, regional policy is primarily seeking to create new jobs, which are a guarantee for the long-term improvement of demographic image and an important mitigation of the crisis. If, despite systemic measures, unemployment in an area exceeds a critical limit, the proposal for a law for such areas provides for additional temporary measures of development support. Social Democrats are convinced that Slovenian regional policy needs fundamental changes mainly in the position of a more efficient entrepreneurial and measurable objective of a targeted implementation of the country's development policy. In doing so, it is very important to introduce systematic ways and forms of intervention to address the situation of economic and other crises both at the level of the State and its institutions and at the level of individual areas, regions and their regional development institutions. A good system law on promoting regional development, strong and strong regional management and adequate care for areas within statistical regions are certainly necessary conditions for successful regional policy development and for a relatively balanced development in Slovenia. We will support the conclusion that the proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development is appropriate for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr. Secretary! During this period, the Government has also set itself as one of the priorities for the establishment of the provinces, a territorial breakdown under NUTS 3. The deadline she set was, I think, last year. The President of the Government stressed for the Council how this government will establish the provinces in this mandate, but it has been two years, half the mandate has passed, and nothing has yet been put into the process of this legislation. It is normal that there have been problems in this crisis that would have been easier to solve at the second level of local self-government than we are now solving. The current regulation is that we have 12 statistical regions, that we have organised regional development agencies, which in particular share the resources of regional development incentives and various funds on the basis of the calls of ministries, where so-called soft projects are mainly produced, which we already have in our communities in stock. Regional development agencies work well at times, especially depending on the municipalities, the world of the region, and elsewhere they are also more self-inflicted, especially where they are organised as parts and do not perform their functions. Under the current law, Article 33 provides for 1.5% of GDP and an additional 0.25% for interventions. This is supposed to be approximately 500 to 600 million funds that would belong to the development of the regions. Of course, these resources are not in the state budget, and this is the biggest problem with the current law. The municipalities in the current organisation across the world of the regions work well in most cases. All projects to draw funds from this title have been developed in municipalities or several municipalities together. These projects to draw funds from the development perspective by 2013 are already sufficient for the municipalities. It is true that in a number of cases, especially at the beginning of 2007, when these projects began to be prepared, the municipalities prepared those projects that are the easiest and as soon as possible for drawing on funds. Many of these projects were not the most developmental, I am talking about various cultural homes, the renovation of libraries, museums. It was most easy to prepare projects for the modernisation of roads where construction permits were not needed, and municipalities reported such projects to draw as much as possible. And the funds for such projects were quickly exhausted. However, there are other means for environmental projects where it is a little more difficult to reach the conditions for drawing up the building permit. These projects, however, achieve the greatest goal in the undeveloped areas, because we know what they mean for such a remote place. And these projects are left behind. Other cohesion projects that these regional development agencies did not have under their jurisdiction remain. There, investors designated from one or more municipalities directly through intermediate bodies, individual ministries and through SVRL management bodies were preparing projects to draw on these funds. Here too, we know what it is like to draw on these funds, which projects have now been implemented, or which funds have been exhausted and will continue to be used in the future. These are highway projects that are already built and are now in these pumping programs – this is the easiest way to pump. Environmental projects such as waste water removal and treatment, municipal waste management and water supply remained. We stress so much that we would like to see the readiness of these projects, when these projects will come to life and draw on resources, and so far, as we have been working for a year and a half, we have not yet seen. It is therefore probably right that this organisation, as it has been so far, has not been perfect and has not worked well, although it has been quite good and needs to be upgraded, but not by such a law, but by lands where the authorities that will have their responsibilities will be loved. Here we are just centralising this law, not fixing the money that belongs to regions or municipalities for these purposes, but allowing some agreements between municipalities or more municipalities with ministries, with the Government, how regional development programmes will be determined, which should be in place for four years and then with implementation plans each year, and the ministries should commit themselves to having these funds in the budget. I don't think that's how it's gonna work. This regional development council, with its president as it will, will have neither the power nor the right responsibility to carry out these projects. In addition, this law simply legitimizes the province. See Article 6 of this Act states that the region comprises municipalities which are included in the NUTS 3 territorial unit within the statistical territorial division of the Republic of Slovenia. This is said to be NUTS 3 provinces. We under this law have 3 statistical regions. In addition, we note that closer programming areas are needed, so to speak, areas where there are also specific development problems that we can address differently and prepare projects for these areas. So even 12 landscapes aren't enough. Do you remember how many provinces there were in the previous term? 14. The government now identifies or practicalizes these 12 provinces, and it also notes that specific programming areas, or one congregation or a number of congregations, need to be treated in particular within these 12 provinces. It's a different kind of landscape. Otherwise, we cannot understand this by having a major influence on politics, and this is the current policy. Each year, these implementation plans will have to be in line with the budget, the state budget, and most of this money will also be made available. The rest of the money will be from municipal budgets. There's no other means here. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this is not the right solution. In addition, there is not much time left until the 2013 financial period, nor is there much time left for the experiments, but those projects that are already ready must be implemented as soon as possible and these funds must be absorbed. I strongly doubt that they will be drawn primarily on the programmes that are most needed. However, we also have the views of national associations. Representatives of the community did not attend the meeting a few days ago. We're wondering why not. We also have an opinion on this law of the Municipality of Ljubljana, which states: "We believe that the proposal does not address the problems that arise in relation to coherent regional development in Slovenia". Once again, we stress that it does not establish an urgent link with municipalities as one of the important segments of coherent regional development. At the same time, we reiterate that the introduction of the provinces is necessary if we are to ensure more coherent regional development and regionalisation of Slovenia. Already more than 70% of Slovenia have stagnant and declining areas. These are the results of policy so far. And we join in such an opinion. The days before the coordination took place by the representatives of the Association of Municipalities and the Ministry, where I was also present as Vice-President of this association, I did not notice that we agreed on this law. Mr Smrdelj and Mr Gjerkeš could agree that the Association of the Communities has been brought into line at a stage in which, after the new elections, the Presidency of the Association will be established and new bodies will be established, because they are not yet, and I doubt that this is the position of the Association of the Communities, given the position expressed so far by the individual municipalities that are in this association. [[...]] I think that this was the personal position of the president of the association, who, of course, has his mandate, and there will be a lot of proposals and opinions on the part of the local community that will follow the adoption of this law. I do not think that this law solves a very sensitive issue and we cannot support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party as such.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Lojze Posedel has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we will really support this bill for further consideration, because we do not want to stop anything at this stage that the state of Slovenia urgently needs. It needs a quality law on coherent regional development. We know that the 2005 law does not produce planned results and that systemic solutions in this area are urgently needed. We highly doubt whether, in this proposal, the direction of the law and the way to achieve this harmonious development are properly set because we know that the differences in Slovenia are very large and the fact is that the differences have always been and always will be. Simple Celje will never be Ljubljana, Ljubljana and never will be Vienna, and Vienna will not be probably New York. And this is the fundamental question of how to help those who are the most vulnerable, the most underdeveloped, those who are a little less, and those who are developed. Following the period of resolution of this problem, we have been given, in particular in the past period, a shift from those with a little more to those who have a little less, which is certainly a bad solution, so it would not produce the right result. In this basic consideration of how to change and regulate coherent development, I am sure that the fact that I believe it will become increasingly on the agenda is this very large fragmentation of Slovenia in these 210 and 212 Slovene municipalities. It is also strange that some who have been on this project of regional development or the preparation of documentation from the beginning have been able to see more clearly and somehow more energetic and professionally want to solve these problems that arise and arise in the field. It is very nice to listen and promise how things need to be decentralised, how to bear responsibility and how to make decisions at the lowest possible level, but perhaps in these years you should realize that a certain agreement is at a regional level, it is said between the municipalities, it is extremely difficult for a simple reason, which is called selfishness or limitation in itself. I don't speak abusively. I speak respectfully to all the mayors, and I was myself, and I know it's only responsible for the municipality where the mayors are. And that's why regional projects are so rare, where more municipalities come together. It is probably a task and it would be good if, in some cases, the State could take certain projects back to the state level. If someone has difficulty understanding what it is, we probably read daily in the newspaper the unknown problems of individual small, small, medium, and urban municipalities with landfills. In so many years, the country should probably realise that it is difficult to agree on a location or a joint project. Certain projects would be easier or even easier to implement if we thought that if a good regional project were to be placed in a region, this could be done from a state level. But if it's left to the local level, it's definitely harder. Thus, it is often solely dependent on individuals who are in a particular territory, who then choose to develop a common development, or simply, as has been the case many times during this period, that the funds earmarked for a particular region were divided into sub-regions by pure mathematics and then decided that someone was building, as was said, a cemetery or a mortuary, a sewer, and some sports halls, as well as some crafts. It is precisely in the case of spindle zones or those projects, which should certainly be regional, that the lack of this country's integration role is to be noted. Not because it is called for assistance, because there are also a number of projects in Slovenia where municipalities have been able to agree and agreed on regional projects, but in this period many and too many Slovenian lands have been destroyed in recent years because each small municipality has wanted to have its own craftsmanship, its infrastructure, and this has significantly encouraged all of these investments and, above all, has destroyed too much Slovenian land. We will, as we say, confirm this proposal because this proposal is also significantly better than the draft. The draft was indeed such that the question of what so many experts have been doing in all these years, and if only experience from the field, and I repeat, some have been on this project since the beginning, if only experience had been passed on to this law, it would have been better. Three things I hope that the applicant will give special attention to in the next period of consideration or preparation are the number of beneficiaries of these measures. In addition to the 12 statistical regions, especially those at the border, the areas with above-average unemployment, and everything else only suggests that small resources will be further divided into the number of beneficiaries and that a second level link should be sought in this respect than left at the local level through negotiation. Experience is such that rare exceptions are made to those where good bargaining and negotiation or joint projects are successful. It's the same with the development partnership. Every time the elections change a little, something starts, but when the new local elections come, the local partnership changes. If we add to this Slovenian political division, these problems are even greater. I therefore think that the number of beneficiaries in this segment should be highlighted in particular. It is also important to draw attention to the composition of the regional development council. Here, too, I think that the experience of both the Minister and the Ministry of Professional Affairs is very well aware of the importance of the composition of the development council of the region and of the status itself. Whether a person is a person of private or public law, what interests are and who has the dominant influence. Whatever influence it may have, it's bad. If the influence of local communities or communities prevails, it is not good if the impact of the economy prevails, nor is it good if civil initiatives or what is also active in the field. I think that specific cases are currently open, some very hot in Slovenia, so that they can be very clear about what solutions are, so we are confident that the Ministry or the professional colleagues will take this into account in the further process of drafting this law. That is why we also support this proposal in this reading, but we note that it is very incomplete or as it is, it will certainly not bring what everyone wants, but it is that regions and regions in Slovenia are more evenly developed, especially in this time of crisis, which has further demonstrated what is generally known elsewhere, that it is a bit affected in the crisis and that those who are poor become even more poor. That is also why we want this preparation to be made faster, more quality and that these differences will be resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Pukšič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister of Cooperation! This marriage could be said to have come, seen — usually said — won, but here we can say: Went to oblivion. And that's how it's gonna happen. Unfortunately, we all know that the only thing, and indeed only, is regionalisation, is the real project that will change the backlog of individual regions, areas behind others or that it will decrease. We only had this opportunity once when the right option was in power, only then did this happen. You already run the fourth term of office with the so-called left option, and you have not prepared a single proposal, not one single one. And it would be fair to make a proposal, of course, first of all, you have a problem because you can't agree in the coalition, but if we were to come to the opposition, agree, consider something good, or because you know what we'd really like, what we've already prepared in the legislation. Of course, there is something to change here, but it is difficult for someone to defend six regions, but the Savini-Shales region must be among them. And that's the only way, the only way to make a difference. Now you have come with a law that is completely contrary to democracy, with subsidiarity. So again from the top down and only from the top down. Today we adopted or at the beginning we had a law, and then a change of rules precisely because of subsidiarity, the influence of the State of the Republic of Slovenia on the European Union, on legislation, here at home, in our own house, where we could do something, not. Let's go in one order. Let us see what this law is based on. You started with professional grounds. And if I just look at regional policy in the last decade. However, I did not find here when you mentioned the promotion of coherent regional development, regional policy in the last decade, where it was written on February 1, 2008, when the government coalition, the former government, with Minister Žagar at the helm prepared a complete package of five or six laws: numbers, delegated tasks, personnel and money. However, you wrote that after the reform of regional policy in the second half of the 1990s, the state of Slovenia has set systemic conditions for the implementation of regional policy. Thus, in 1999 the National Assembly adopted the first law on coherent regional development and then the Government adopted a regional development strategy, etc. Well, admit it, there's been no movement since the second half of the '90s. It's actually in a negative way. This means a percentage of the backlog, as you can see for yourself, in the table of the implementation of the objectives of the Regional Development Strategy on the 21st page, you stated that "the objective of achieving differences in economic development and living opportunities between individual regions is not achieved". He wasn't reached. The differences between the most and least developed regions are increasing. And even though you found out that you wrote it down, you didn't even write it down, you didn't come up with a proposal. It's totally out of touch to do this. It's better if you don't do anything because it's a waste of paper, of computers, of everything else. Better deal with what you are and what you can do if you do not come up with a serious proposal for regionalisation. In the same table you will then note that the objective of maintaining minimum settlements throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia has not been achieved either. Of course, it has not been and cannot be realized, but if it is human migration. Where? Yes to those parts of the country where there are also more jobs, jobs and so on. And why is this happening? It happens because everything is centralized. You then found in this regional policy, in the professional basis for drafting this law, that EUR 600 million was available for 12 development regions as support for the implementation of regional development programmes. These resources for the development of the regions are intended for complementary projects of regional importance based on the initiative from below. So you admit that was good. And that's true. When the operational programmes were amended, we proposed not only from the opposition – but also from the committee and adopted the conclusions of the entire committee in order to raise funds on this item. We have said why and said that the projects are ready, but there are too little money or, as you know, given the catastrophically poor use of European funds, we have exhausted 500 million of this item, or 500 of them, because we know that there must be about 20 to 30% more calls than there are available if we want this to be exhausted and then returned. And you say that, thanks to EU funds, the amount of funding allocated to regional development has increased significantly since 2007. Then, according to points, the Council of the Regions is a political body composed solely of mayors, and therefore political and local interests are at the heart of the decision-making process. Yeah, so that's illegal. Then let us put an end to the political interests, abolish the municipalities, re-establish the Communist Party, and we will have a delegation system, and there will be delegates' interests in the first place, I mean, political and local interests. All the projects that went through the development world, which then applied, all went through the Ministry, all of them had to get their consent. What's more, they had to be done, they had to be paid if you wanted to get it, or if you were going to get the money out of the budget back. And this is, of course, the starting point for you at the Ministry, so that you can then also apply to Brussels for the refund of funds.In this preparation, you will find that the basic eligible purpose of funding is defined in the operational programme for the period 2007-2013, but the beneficiaries often decide on the projects with which they run only when calls are made available when more detailed data are available. Yes, logically, because in the meantime you have to wait until the government changes, because then the government changes its next purpose, a lot of municipalities have prepared projects on road infrastructure, then you have deleted this at the last fiveth call and you have not allowed it, and then they have prepared very quickly new projects and they have also identified themselves. If we go from the professional background to the proposal of the law and if I start with a regional development strategy – an assessment of the situation. Here you analyse, "in Slovenia we are witnessing significant regional differences," – a good conclusion – analyses point to the vast developmental diversity of Slovenian municipalities and regions. I don't know why you're talking about the region, if we only have statistical regions, we don't have regions. If you've figured that out in the first two sentences, then you'd be thinking about how to solve it. You continue to write that the more influential development centres, among them with the jump of Ljubljana. Yes, Ljubljana has several advantages. Ljubljana has a National Assembly, has a State Council. Do you still remember the bill when some Members proposed the transfer of the State Council to Maribor? You still remember when some Members even proposed and discussed it here, but also the previous government, unfortunately, did not do so, about transferring some ministries to other areas. Okay, we can't tell her everything if she was only four years old and you've got four times four, that's 16 and 14 years. Why does Ljubljana have other advantages? Yes, of course, infrastructure and everything else is built here. Moreover, a special law was adopted for Ljubljana. We are not against the fact that it is a special law for the capital, but in this way, and then to find that it is the most developed and so on, to see that jobs are concentrated mainly in the central Slovenian region. See if, in these two years, this government would disperse all these agencies that you have set up across Slovenia, reduce employment or jobs in the central Slovenian region. In short, it's all here. Well, now, I've heard a few times about how all the responsibility is for centralisation and so on. I have said several times, a respected government coalition, a purely ordinary law is needed, you do not need the opposition, you accept the law, and you terminate the congregations! What are you saying, they're not okay and they're not okay! Yeah, cut 'em off, well, what are you waiting for? Let's stop them if you're hoping. You only hope to be philosophical, just as you are now two years old to be philosophical about this new law, how you've been preparing it, now we're going to be talking, I don't know, for three months, and on the committee, we're going to be amending all of these 60 or how many articles it is, of course, we're going to be making amendments and so on. And then you'll find out, because you'll just accept it in coalition, because that's how you decided what you did for regionalisation. Ten years from now, if something doesn't change sooner, and I hope that it will be, the same as it will be found today — not in ten years, not in twenty years — as we have cared about regional development since 1990, but we have done nothing. Well, thank you, however, for just writing down a matter here: "A less developed and generally approved periphery, Slovenian regions have the most less developed road network." You say the congregations have a less elaborate road network. With this road network, you are probably referring to the regional road network, because not locally, because it is much better locally today than it is regionally. However, if we had regions and regions cared for the regional network, this would be different. But then you say that "there are no interregional differences in terms of basic municipal infrastructure, equipment of apartments with water, electricity." They're not here. Why? Yes, because the congregations did their homework well. Great! But it is true that they have already outgrown it, and now it is time for regionalisation to take place. And once again, Minister, come with a proposal for regionalisation, of course, not by having some 100 million euros for some office moths, but by transferring from country to regional level content, people and money. Then you also note that some other investments in municipal waste will be made and so on. Yes, because these 600 million euros in the regional development programme are still being used and built for water treatment. That's what marriage looks like. Perhaps just two more matters concerning regionalisation, added value or province. If we had provinces, we'd have real added value. You also write about this added value in this law, which you have copied from the provincial legislation, but none of it will, unfortunately, be until we have the provinces. The objectives of regional importance are certainly regional policy, environmental, transport, economic, agricultural, school, culture, health, protection and rescue, work, family and social. These are things, as my colleague has said before, that it is not possible to bring regionalisation through such a law and an administration. To narrow my thinking down to the next 15 or 16 points. Dear Government, when you took power, you promised to establish the provinces as soon as possible, so that Slovenia would flourish. That's what I believe. But you have done nothing in this area. Now you have come to the National Assembly with a law that will finally bury the provinces and destroy the essence of regional development. With all the big predictions and words of the government about the best possible law in the area of regional law, I can only say that I am very, very disappointed over the law. The mountain was shaking, the mouse was born. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are not only disappointed with the proposed law, but also amazed at the government's arrogance that such a law, which is inconsistent with all the fundamental agents of regional development – the municipalities – has at all dared to submit to the legislative process. Not only is the law not in line with the Community and the Association of Slovenian Municipalities, but the problem is that the municipalities were not even involved in the drafting of the law. If we look at the timing of the drafting of the bill, we see that the Association and the Community of the Communities were involved in the drafting of the law only three months after the initiation of the procedure, and that is only to give opinions on the draft bill, while they did not receive any words when the content was formed. The re-establishment of the system should be based on verification, compliance with the rules in force and should certainly involve municipalities as the main agents of regional development, since they see in practice the lack of an existing system and can propose effective measures on the basis of their experience. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we think it is so ignorant of municipalities that are heavily co-financed by regional projects and that are actually concerned with the proper implementation of regional policy, which is deplorable today. Members of the Slovenian People's Party openly oppose the proposed law for the following reasons. The first is that the proposed law significantly reduces the role of mayors and mayors in dealing with development in individual regions, despite the fact that more tasks are being assigned to municipalities and the share of project financing is increasing. This is a kind of paradox, since a person who contributes more to regional development activities within the collective body of the so-called development council of the region is deprived of his right to decide, since only two-fifths of the voting rights in this body will be enjoyed by the municipalities. This raises a legitimate concern that small municipalities will be completely excluded from co-decision since, due to a limited number of representatives to the development council, 40% will simply not be able to participate in the quota. The financing of regional development agencies is also not being adequately addressed, as they will need to be fully provided with funds for the implementation of statutory tasks. Here, once again, the municipalities will draw briefly, as most of the burden of covering the costs of the Agency will fall on them, while they themselves will not have a majority in decision-making on the development of the regions. That doesn't seem fair to us at all. Nor does the law have any concrete positive financial implications for the regions, even abolishing certain rights that have already been guaranteed to the regions under the existing law, namely, in the 4th chapter of the current law, State incentives for coherent regional development. The second reason is that the law creates an even greater centralisation of regional development, as impossible conditions are in place to obtain the mandate to carry out tasks, and only the government regional development service plays an exclusive role in the granting of powers. Is there any other comment needed in this regard? The municipalities are already taking responsibility for decision-making in the development world of the regions, which, according to the proposal of the law, will not even have the possibility of deciding who will take care of the overall development tasks in the region. The Slovenian People's Party believes that this leads to even greater centralisation and is moving away from the core of regional policy: the realization of territorial development objectives, which are achieved in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity from below. This provision of Article 18 of the draft law confers exclusive competence on the Government Regional Development Service to grant powers, which cannot be understood differently in the Slovenian People's Party's Group than an attempt to increase the impact of the public service on the implementation of regional policy. Third time. The next reason why members of the Slovenian People's Party oppose the bill is that the text does not mention the provinces – not once! – as mentioned in the current law, which will upgrade the system of development of individual regions. Fourth time. The law does not address the concept of two cohesion regions. This could mean that Slovenia is already canceling out in advance by means of convergence for the next financial perspective. Tell us that. We don't know that. For the first time in fact, we are seeing this now in this bill. If not, of course this means at least that projects in the eastern part of Slovenia, which may still be eligible for the funding of objective one, will be decided by someone other than Ljubljana. So it's the periphery center again. Centralised decision-making is, of course, far from human beings and does not ensure that real needs are met at regional level. Fifth. The regional agencies are being restored to the powers and tasks for which regional development has previously been carried out only at the level of regional development agencies, nor is the reference to the law that the existing legislation has recognised the existence of regional development agencies, but the regional policy of their operation has not been supported by public funds, as regional development investments have so far been financed by the SVR resources of approximately one regional development agency employee totalling about one million at an annual level, but the state would now take 60%, requiring from four to five regional managers, and the financial consequences of the law do not include increased funding for regional development agencies or are foreseen to increase funds only in 2013. This means that the law imposes a four to five-fold increase in labour costs, thus adding 50% of the funds only after two years. Therefore, there is no logic in the matter, and the regional development agencies will be redefined by the State and will be determined on the basis of a call for proposals. Therefore, the local regional level will have no impact on who will be the bearer of their development, except that they will be paid from the municipalities. Six. You're introducing a new concept, regional manager. Oh, I already see a few doctorates on this subject! There is a new concept in which people will again serve with education at the expense of the municipalities, and this is usually done by individuals during their official duties at seminars, seminars are listed, quotations are paid and so on. It's a week. Lawmakers still do not understand that there is no direct link between the regional project and the joint project of several municipalities. The status of the regional project determines the content of the project and the importance of the project for the region, not the fact that it is implemented by one, two or twenty municipalities together. I know a project worth 40 million euros, with a building permit, do you think someone in this country at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, at the Ministry of Regional Policy, and so on? With a building permit, two hundred new jobs. Who do you think's interested? No, no, no. The law denies the competence of local policy to make comprehensive decisions on the development priorities of each region, although it is the municipal level when we do not have provinces, the only provider of regional development in the region. Without the inclusion of projects in municipal development programmes, public investments can only be made if they are at national level in the national development programme, otherwise they are not. Nine. In explanation, he condemns the mayors of Pomurje. How orderly you were that you did not respond to the current economic situation in 2009 when deciding in the world of the region and that you continued to invest in local infrastructure. This indication is clear from the context for two reasons. For the first time in the world of the regions, only the content of the projects allowed by the call for tender and the tender in 2009 was virtually non-existent. We remember this, only this year, 2010, late January, on request, twice, extraordinary meetings of the Slovenian People's Party's Committee on Local Self-Government, then it was cancelled, then February and so on and so on. Not to mention what's happening now at the end of the year with funding. Whether not, Madam Mayors, you all have full accounts of state money or bank loans, for which the state is now expected to pay interest for the tasks performed. I hope so! How nice it is to blame the mayors for the crisis! It should be asked whether the Government has alerted the world of the regions to the implementation of the necessary measures and what tools the world of the region had in hand at all. What has Mura regional development agencies done in this regard? Nor does the new law with the new development council provide any additional tools to address or respond to new situations of this kind. Intervention measures can only be carried out by the Government, and that is the only logical and right thing to do. It is not possible for an intervention to be carried out by the region, except by the municipalities when they do not have the resources to do so. Ten years. One of the main reasons for the new law is repeatedly stated, both by the President of the Government and the competent minister, in seeking a systemic solution to respond to significant changes in the economic situation in a given area. Eleventh time. External experts from regional development agencies participated in the drafting of the law, and the law is also heavily written on the skin of existing regional development agencies and other regional institutions will virtually have no opportunity to come along. The existing regional development agencies will also be completely trampled upon by regional development agencies after the adoption of this law. Twelve. The law foresees the implementation of regional development programmes through agreements concluded between the country and the region. Arrangements will be made for a four-year period to be confirmed by the Government. This means, of course, that they will be completely inflexible, because now we see that regional arrangements need to be changed or regional projects should be adopted, also changed several times over a given period or year. So what is left in the end? Because of all this, the respected Government, just before the 20th anniversary of plebiscite, you brought this country to the brink of mistrust in the state institutions of this country. And what do we have left? All we have left is an adventurous time, a time of expectation and hope.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Secretary with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development. Let me start by saying that my position will be almost diametric to the position of the predecessor. In the DeSUS Group, we fully understand the need for an immediate law on the promotion of coherent regional development. This is due to the growing disparities between developed and less developed regions. In fact, this is also why, day after day, requirements for the adoption of intervention legislation to promote the development of individual regions are emerging, and we believe that they have not been successful so far except for Pomur. We believe that this is not the right way; it is not the systemic way to solve the problems of the underdeveloped regions. Slovenia has a long history of policy to promote regional development for 30 or 40 years. The first established systems produced visible positive results, as less developed areas in terms of promoting economic development and resulting employment growth were very close to the average of Slovenia. During the years of independence, there has been a decrease in funds for regional policy and the absence of sectoral policy coordination. As the negotiations for integration into European cohesion policy are concluded, we have joined the reform of regional policy by establishing new systems of conditions for its implementation. We have received two laws to promote coherent regional development, we have adopted strategic frameworks at country level, we have received key institutions to ensure action and promote regional development. Since 2004, Slovenia has been entitled to European Union funding under cohesion policy and rural development policy. However, there are still differences in the development of the regions today, and unfortunately, regions from the eastern half of the map of Slovenia are out front. The situation in some regions is very difficult. Developmental differences do not decrease, even the opposite. In the most lagging regions, the financial and economic crisis has led to a disproportionate deterioration in the economic situation, resulting in social threats, followed by increased pressure on public finances. The situation of some, however, should require even intervention during the current economic crisis. The current situation in regional development, taking into account Slovenia's poor economic indicators and the uncertain outlook for the future, requires serious reflection on the existing model for promoting regional development. The current system of regional policy is not functioning sufficiently and is not sufficiently responsive to everyday current problems that may arise unexpectedly. This led to a broader debate on the issue of regional development in the adoption of the intervention law for Pomurje last year, and this law was the first step towards recasting comprehensive legislation on the promotion of coherent regional development. The proposal for this law is based on the definition that the systemic approach, i.e. the system law, to areas facing similar development problems as the Pomurska region, should provide approximately the same state support as that received by Pomurje under the intervention law. Thus, it should not be necessary to cut down after the adoption of new intervention laws, as already proposed for Pocolpje, for Maribor and Podravje, and when an intervention law has been proposed to promote the development of Koroška. Regional inequality needs to be halted and the flow of regional policy must be reversed, to address the current gaps between developed and underdeveloped regions. Of course, it will also be necessary to set up a system that will ensure a balanced and coherent unfolding of events in the future. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that this proposal has built-in mechanisms that will allow major derogations to be settled today. Empowerment to a more effective regional policy should be geared towards defining regional policy towards structural policies that include development activities and programmes to achieve coherent regional development. It is implemented through endogenous regional policy measures, among which to highlight options for further action in border and border areas of concern and for additional action in high unemployment areas, these are those most affected by the crisis. The border band is expected to strengthen with new investments and thus new employment opportunities, which could help improve the demographic picture of these municipalities. Such measures would also be granted to those problem municipalities bordering the border and which are kept in transport links or have a high proportion of the area included in Natura 2000. Areas problematic in terms of high unemployment will receive support to promote competitiveness, pay for employers' contributions to employment and so on. These are all measures and mechanisms that are acceptable and absolutely supported and encouraged by the DeSUS Group. This law also introduces a simplified system of organisation into regions based on the concept of multi-military territorial governance. At the level of the region, regional policy institutions are the development council of the region, of course we have some concerns, then regional development agencies and regional development networks. The development council of the region will be based as a core body of coordination of development initiatives and interests on the tripartite composition of members of the Council, where 40% of the representatives of municipalities, i.e. mayors, will be good, and 40% of the representatives from the association of the economy and 20% from the NGO sector. Of course, concerns and open questions also exist in the DeSUS Group when we are dealing with a second reading of this law. However, we believe that so far the DeSUS Group has been constructively involved in the drafting of this law. We believe that there are still some differences, that some of our comments are still on our side. The time for the final examination and adoption of this law is sufficient. At this time, we will also try to get all these things on paper or modify them in such a way that the law will be even better. I hope that this will also be done by the other political parties, who should be aware that this is a very short and fast way to want and achieve the goal of balancing these great differences in terms of the development of our regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, a colleague, a minister with a coworker! The proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development gave us at least an assessment that there are major regional differences in Slovenia. In Slovenia, the ratio between the most and least developed region measured by GDP is 2:1. In Slovenia, the Central Slovenian region has more than 24 times the GDP of the smallest region, and this is exactly the region from which I come, the Sava region. In Slovenia, the lowest daily migration index is already, once again, the Sava region, where for 25% – I give only a comparison – is probably not the only – less jobs than the number of active people. In Slovenia we have witnessed structural unemployment in some regions, especially again, in Zasavska. But why are we witnessing structural unemployment, and it would be good to find out. There is no need for this law, but it is necessary that this finding, which is already known, is made public and that the law is adapted to that finding. Structurally unemployed in certain sectors are unemployable in others. And that's a fact. Again, we are witnessing that the biggest unemployment is in the Zasavska, Pomurski, Podravski and Koroška region. We are witnessing the decline of population growth again in the poorest regions: Pomurski, Podravski and Zasavski region. In the analysis of the education of the population, it is again concluded that Pomurska, Podnjeposavska and Zasavska are in the worst position in terms of human capital. Why did I point out some regions, and especially Zasavsko, which is most often mentioned, to the conclusion that the situation is actually the worst there? Because we can follow the text below, which says: "The implementation of projects 3, 3a and 4 of the development axis should contribute in particular to improving the connectivity of peripheral areas". And now tell me, dear colleagues and colleagues, in particular Mr Minister and co-worker, how can I be able to find out, and I will stay back in the Zasavski region, which is mentioned in each of the worst elements, after so much fighting, after two analyses, after arguments with three ministers, the 3rd Development Axis, which is supposed to solve this, leads past Zasavje. We argued at all possible ministries that if this is a development, there must be a development axis across that province, and it also goes past Koroška, it goes through the development part, through Velenje, Celje and Laško, which today has 10 minutes to the highway, and if the third development axis leads past Laško again, it will have 10 minutes to the 3rd development axis. What's the point of talking and writing if they don't serve anything and if it's done completely differently?Oh, my God! The purpose of the marriage is described and I will not repeat it. The one you were interested in, you read it to yourself, and you know what the goal is. In assessing the financial situation, however, the law states that it does not introduce new institutions, but strengthens and links existing ones. Maybe, maybe think about the ones I'm going to talk about. But if we look at the reality of how to help someone who is a developmentally bad, with this law, and if we pass on the word "institution". See, Zasavje, again, it is heard, it is spoken, and it is assumed that in Zasavje the general hospital will be renamed or restructured by a new law to a purely ordinary hospital and thereby confiscated certain things. The draft of the NEP, the National Energy Programme, no longer includes the Thermoelectric Trbovlje. We have the facility, we have the infrastructure, we have the educated people, we have the personnel and we have the employees that this country is shutting down. And for the energy that this country, energy, will need. We have the Trbovlje-Breeder Mine, which still has supplies, but we're closing it down. We're shutting down existing institutions. This is how regional development is done after the CAP. This time, I don't think it's the law of criminal procedure, but it's a healthy farmer's mind. We want to connect regional and regional development agencies, business incubators, energy offices and centres of excellence into the development network. We got 'em. We have a development network, we have regional and development agencies, we have entrepreneurial incubators, we have an energy series of years. Has anyone analyzed their work? Has anyone analyzed the results? Has anyone analyzed the correctness of their work? Nobody. We are not introducing anything new, but we stress that there is something that has not worked so far. I hope they do more than that from now on. The country gives a million euros a year for the development of the regions. I don't know if it's right to say state give or state give, because the country is not the end of a bottomless bag, but a million euros for development incentives in the 12 statistical regions is nothing. Nice or ugly. It's nothing. I'm not going to give it to you. Help. To make a new capital by doing this as capital. And this law provides for an increase from one to 1.5 million, i.e. from 500 000 euros. Well, half as much for encouragement and further development. Okay, I hope so. Our fellow Members will have something to say. Article 14 on the development of areas of national minorities and settlements of the Roma community in the Republic of Slovenia states: "The preparation of regional development programmes, regional development arrangements and regional policy measures shall take into account the specific needs for the development of areas where members of indigenous national communities and Roma communities live in the Republic of Slovenia". Please, in your second reading, write down what these specific needs are. The specific needs of Zasavlje have its own way, Koroška by its own way, the country of Kranje by its own way, Pomurje by its own way. What are these specifics that a specific article should be given to them? What are those specs? Why are these specifications necessary? That's what we want to know. What some specifics are needed, a special article for people living in Slovenia, who are Slovenians, who are subject to the laws as they apply to all Slovenes. And also an article that is likely to raise a big question, Article 28, where the transfer of state property for development purposes is concerned. Basically, thank God, finally, but once. Second, too late, unfortunately. And thirdly, all the reasons listed here are right, and they must be, but you know what, if this does not happen, but all that is state-owned and no longer applicable, I will again give the Zasavje case, the mining area when they are transferred to the Agricultural Land Fund, are abandoned, neglected and collapsed. It is better to give the land to the congregations, even if they do nothing on it, if they do not, at least they will care for the grass and plant the tree. I'll give my colleagues some time. So far, I find that this law is a good analysis of the situation, that a list of certain findings is what needs to be done. Unfortunately, however, the refrain of the already existing, which has not done anything, is primarily these institutions, and that is a list of wishes that we have long known, but I cannot find any tangible solution to meet these desires. And it is an attempt to establish institutions and support institutions that, I repeat, already exist, and the results of their work, unfortunately, have not been measured. That was a few grades. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not interfere with further procedures for the adoption of this law, in the hope and desire that all comments will already be taken into account at today's meeting, as well as in the meantime. Above all, there are some tangible elements missing here that can actually be followed by coherent regional development. Otherwise, it is better to make individual laws for individual regions. Not like he was for Pomurje, but better, which will help a particular region. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u61	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr Kampuz has the floor first and Mr Pojbič has the floor to prepare himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u62	Dear Vice President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Yes, it is true that in the beginning we should probably say that we Slovenians are ourselves the greatest enemy, especially in this sense, when we get one of the important things on the table, we all jump in and say, that's not right. That's not true, the other way around! I assess that the proposal for a law on the promotion of coherent regional development in the first reading is on the table, and if we are all so kind and kind and smart, then in those matters which are unacceptable, complement, upgrade and make it as acceptable as possible, not for all individuals, but for all regions and those living in it. So regional policy in Slovenia is problematic at this time and it is also clear now that the developmental differences in Slovenia are not shrinking. On the contrary, differences are increasing and it is important to note the weaknesses of this current system. Slovenia therefore needs a new law to promote coherent regional development, within which all the areas facing development problems will be answered, in order to achieve a better development component with the common policy. I have already spoken about some general or global matters concerning this law. Now I'm going to try these individual matters, which I think are very important and different in the previous marriage. This means that it is true that the highest authority of the development world is now in the statistical region. A similar body is also included in this new legislation, with a major change: now only the mayor has been involved in this body and, of course, under the new law, 40% of the mayors' development council and 40% of the representatives of the economy, and 20% of the representatives of NGOs. If the law states that it can be made up of a maximum of thirty members, it is likely that only twelve mayors can participate within it, twelve are representatives of the economy and, of course, six representatives of NGOs. That's news. Of course, it is clear, then, that those of us who have thirty mayors in the statistical regions will not be able to cooperate. Within these regions, an agreement will have to be reached on who is the one representing the individual areas, the individual groups of municipalities and so on. What do I see in quality? I see the quality in that within this world there is also the participation of economists. There have been many anomalies in the sense that every little one of you would like to have industrial zones and not talk about certain other things. Bullshit, that's not how it works! At this point, I think this marriage is going in the right direction. However, when making key decisions for the region, the law states that at least 60% of mayors representing at least 50% of citizens will have to give a green light to each agreed strategy or project. So, anyway, it's quite a novelty. I am pleased with these dilemmas, which have finally come to an end of the agenda, that within this regional council only the mayors and the mayors, but not the municipal councilors, can represent the individual municipalities at this time. This is a personal good solution for me. An important issue for me is the one that was previously discussed that the law stated that it was responsible for the co-financing of regional projects of 60%. So far, up to 60%, it could have been 20%, so far it could have been 20, 10, I don't know, and so on. So that's a step forward. Of course, this is also a good point at the expense of the fact that local communities and all the others within the region will have to agree, but now it is a condition, otherwise there will be no such projects. It is also important to mention this in particular, and I was very pleased with my colleague Rezman, who opened up this dilemma – the cooperation of the economy and the local community. I believe he meant in this direction that this is a good option, because we're still putting some things in front of others. I also estimate that walls, roads, sidewalks cannot replace new jobs at this time, or jobs are number one. And I hope to say that in this sense, because economists will cooperate, this issue will also be more strongly present. Of course, it is now necessary to follow the link between the congregations. This law also forces the congregations to become closer to one another, of course, together with the country. I believe that's not an easy task. Even now some delays in statistical regions stem from this problem because they do not interact, do not cooperate, and compromise solutions must always be sought. So there's no way inside the region that you can insist that yours is the one. Nevertheless, compromise solutions are those that lead to joint projects and, in general, to be able to run for state funds. We have quite a few cases, especially in northeastern Slovenia, which is fragmented, which is otherwise fragmented, which is much more fragmented as a percentage than other regions. And no wonder there are the biggest problems. Look at them! I would like all those who have valid comments on the law, supported by the practice so far, to come with them on a day-to-day basis. Now it's the first hearing, time is up to second and third. Let us improve this law so that we can be content. It is certainly true, however, that the law of Pomur, regardless of what is being said negatively about it at the moment, is unfair and unfair, because there is no evidence, so it is necessary to collect good practices from this pomur law, those that have already proved to be important and can be implemented in other regions. This is important. It was also one of the points at the time of the adoption of the law of purgatory that tendency. It needs to be used now. And it's right, Minister, that these good practices, the tendencies that are built into marriage. At this point, I must say that I am satisfied. Of course, there is no final word in this law. I am just joining my colleague Gönch, who immediately opened the dilemma, how now with minorities who are not currently represented. And many other dilemmas are likely to arise in the next debates and will need to be taken into account by the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Minister Gjerkesh made a statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Many opinions were made clear from the presentations. Some had a common denominator, some of the analyses went deeper into the proposal of the law, which shows that the law was carefully read. However, there were some other eyewitnesses, or critics, who also had three, four common nouns that I would like to draw attention to. One of these was a poor traveller or that this proposal is inconsistent with those involved in this law. That's not true. We had coordination with both representative associations – presentation of the law. We had the planned coordination with both of them this week, and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia did not participate, I suppose for logistical reasons, although they had expressed a desire to participate in this meeting a few days earlier. The Association of Slovene municipalities was present, and I also do not understand this comment by Mr Lach, who says that the final agreement was a matter for the president rather than the Association of Slovene municipalities. It is difficult for me to negotiate with any representative if, for example, there is no mandate for that group that has come to negotiate, in which you, Mr Lah, have been in, and then the president of the ZOS has made a public statement to the media. So it wasn't about something else, but we spent an hour matching those key factors. Of course, we will send what we believe we have agreed on to the CCS and the SOS and see if there are any additional comments. But what we agreed on there is more than a man can talk. This bill was then unanimously confirmed as suitable for further discussion by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Policy of the Council of State. The bill was unanimously supported by the State Council as suitable for further consideration, unanimously. The professional public, both domestic and foreign, without agreeing to the bill, participated in the drafting of this law and also not to say, enthusiastically accompanied this into political consideration further. We have also received certain comments from the parliamentary groups, which we have taken into account in one part, irrespective of who gave them. Above all, the experience of the mayors represented in all the parliamentary groups is valuable, especially to enrich this implementation level and somehow to enable the proper implementation of this law. And this doubt about the possibility of implementing such a bill, which is the second common denominator of critics, is, in my opinion, encouraged by something which has been disputed, if this new law brings nothing new. If I did not bring anything new, it would also be easy to move forward, as is the case with the current I only think that there has been progress and also an additional burden on the mayors in the implementation of this new law. The parishioners play a double role. The first role is to care for development in the congregation. They have so far played an important role and will continue to play an important role in cooperation for the planning and development of the regions. This is actually this observation, which is really just what it would be if there were no provinces to take over, so this second level of local self-government would assume this function in an adequate way, so that the development council of the region, where it is important, the most important part, the Mayor's membership, will now play a double role in the decision-making of the strategy. Of course, in this case, as we have said, we will try to fill this void with the inter-institutional authorities, but we are basically not talking today, and I wanted to stress this in the opening address, on the territorial division of Slovenia, administrative-administrative. That goes beyond this law. This law is a professional development law that seeks to respond to the problems of Slovenia and the regions that have emerged mainly in these times of crisis and escalated in these times of crisis. Waiting for political consensus at a time when we are looking for all of the development potentials to try to get out of the crisis as soon as possible, to try to accelerate the development of Slovenia, cannot be criticised by the view that there are no provinces. That's right. They're gone. There is no political consensus, no political consensus. For a proposal that is under public scrutiny, the Government has decided and at the SVR we have decided to try to create a legal framework for this development potential, which is still under development, so that we can start the development cycle more quickly in Slovenia and in regions and within regions. However, the next common denominator referred to, in my opinion, an analysis of the situation, since regional policy was equated with investment European cohesion policy. I agree with that. In recent years, this has been equivalent. In this bill, European cohesion policy is part of regional policy, but regional policy is not a European cohesion policy like it is now. After all, there are no other funds. However, where it has been written down, there are no other funds than European Union funds. In addition to the European cohesion policy, which will also be set out in the next financial perspective, this proposal sets out integral means for direct regional incentives. We have agreed, and this seems to us also to be a great achievement, with the Ministry of Agriculture or with the European agricultural policy operator, to direct some of the resources to border areas that are defined within the law as those areas that have been lagging behind for many years or decades compared to other areas in Slovenia. Unfortunately, Commissioner Pukšič is not here because I think he has read one other law, not what we have presented. But I have to answer those statements he made, at least the key ones. It is in fact written down, and this was particularly stressed by Mr Puksic that mayors decide politically and locally. See, mayors are politically elected representatives of the people, and we have no doubt that they are taking local decisions, and that was due to the setting-up and implementation of European cohesion policy in 2006. And in this way it will be implemented to the end of the financial perspective, whether we like it or not. We have allocated 85% of the funds in this way, but we have broken it down by agreement in the world of the region. As mayors sat in the world of the regions, in some regions in this way, they had otherwise agreed on the key of distribution. And here's the original sin. The key to distribution meant that funds were to go to the congregations. The funds, however, are from the European Regional Development Fund, not for municipal development. This system will run to the end and we will make sure that it is properly implemented in the Government or in the SVR. We have already made sure that the funds from the first four tenders will be reimbursed and are already recovered from Brussels, but it is true that this provision took some time and here is also the answer to the obvious. But we've been talking about this for hours here, because there was no invitation to tender in 2009. It is true that no funds were recovered in 2009, not from this and not from any other heading of cohesion policy. Likewise, this observation directly related to the law that drawing is catastrophic, on the contrary, I look forward to January when the European Commission sends its data and then we will see where Slovenia ends. I think that this will be a very good indicator or answer to such baseless findings. I have already said that there are no positive financial effects for the regions. Where'd the extra resources come from? If we add guarantee schemes to agricultural money and integrated additional money and cohesion money, we also include credit schemes and so on, in short, targeted sector operations, we can find that financial effects are significantly more important than in existing frameworks. That the development councils of the region will not have the choice of the middle development law. Of course they will. Here we are talking about a regional development agency that has very strict conditions for obtaining the power that the Government or the Government Office for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy really issues. For one reason only: to avoid certain deviations and to ensure the functioning of the RRAs in the public interest. According to my experience, we generally agree that RRAs have spent most of their time not on public interest, but on something else. So, we would also like to ensure this through scattered ownership and organisation and, of course, by overseeing their work, because this power will also be lost, of course, in agreement with the development world of the region. But we will always see first and foremost whether the development world of the region is satisfied with its entity after meeting the legal conditions, that is, after first obtaining the mandate. We will monitor this and negotiate with the development council of the region and, as stated in the third paragraph of Article 20, the service will obtain the agreement of the development council of the region prior to the granting of the mandate. In short, the development council of the region will still be the one to choose the development entity, which will have to meet all the tax-related conditions in the law, which will be accompanied by the SVR. It is therefore technical and human resources to satisfy the needs of such a central development entity. And the point is that that supreme decision-making body in the region is satisfied with this entity. In short, I don't think there are any significant changes here, except for the RRAs, whose operation will be more precisely below the magnifying glass. So this is not about increasing the influence of SVR on the selection of medium-sized development entities. All those now RRAs will be able to recommit themselves to the public tender, but of course also to someone else. And regional development agencies, as we have heard from RRAs, will be a key part of the regional development network, particularly in those regions where regional development partnerships are to be implemented, which are not necessary, but are appropriate for those regions where the uneven development of individual areas is reflected within regions. And there have already been regional development partnerships with their regional development agencies, and these will be the first round of the regional development network, which will be upgraded in particular by tourism organisations. In short, with all development entities that can contribute in any way to the development of that region or region. That they didn't mention the landscape. Well, here I agree with Mr. Puksic. The provinces are not mentioned, because this legislation, I have to say again, does not deal with the provinces. Because if we were to deal with the provinces, we should also look at the time when the modernisation of this development moment, the development of regions, the more coherent regional development deals with that sensitive political theme, which we know has been going on for several years, and we haven't had that much time. It is true that NUTS 3 is mentioned, but NUTS 3 is also mentioned in the European Cohesion Policy, where we have set up statistical regions in a way that European cohesion policy can be implemented. No more and no less. And this is not how we redefine 12 landscapes or I think I've heard that even more because they are enabled by development partnership areas, because after this deduction it would be possible to define even less. In fact, the law defines the possibility of involving several statistical regions in a larger project beyond the financial or territorial possibilities of a larger project. In short, this way you could count, or twenty-five or three or six or eight. In short, if the regions unite and this law allows for these major projects, then we could conclude. But we are saying this conditionally because I am not dealing with it, I am dealing with a developmental aspect, and this, as I myself think, primarily by partnering with responsibility and competence, promotes this development potential, which in my opinion is not yet used in Slovenia for the development of regions, both for development within regions and for Slovenia alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr Pojbič has the floor to prepare Mr Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u66	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, I'm going to start with the words that are famous and the famous phrase recently spoken by the interior minister of this government. She said that the current government has lost its development focus. Of course, if the minister of the current government said so, she had many reasons! Thank God that this sentence and this article did not say anywhere that the opposition was responsible for the government's loss of developmental focus. Thank God! Thus, the Minister of her own government has found that this government, together with this coalition, has lost its development focus. And how important it was that the Slovenian Democratic Party or the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, in these two years, had tabled many laws and proposals for measures to address the current economic and financial and social crisis! Here it has been shown that this government has a Slovenian Democratic Party that can at any time prepare solutions and has solutions to this crisis and has also pointed to this through the legislation it has proposed. However, this government and this coalition have not responded, they simply do not care what is happening in this country. Why did I start with that sentence? I will say the following, I am convinced that the Government's service for local self-government and regional development has also lost its development focus. Why? See, here I have a timetable, i.e. the normative programme of work of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010, the regulations and powers of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Here is the following: Law on Provinces, scheduled regular procedure, first submission for consideration at the Government 1. 12. 2009, deadline for consideration by the Government 10. 12. 2009, the deadline is 30. 4. 2010 – We are now at the end of 2010, in December 2010! Then the Act on the Establishment of Landscapes - Regular Procedure 1. 12. 2009, deadline for consideration by the Government 10. 12. 2009 and 30 deadline. 4. 2010 Also the Land Financing Act, the ordinary procedure, the first submission for consideration by the Government 26. 1. 2010, deadline for consideration by the Government 4. 2. 2010 and the deadline for adoption is 30. 6. 2010 And so on. Practically all legislation relating to all provincial legislation should be dealt with by the Government at the beginning of this year and concluded there by the middle of this year. And look what we got at this point. The government has not prepared any provincial law, it is said, has again deceived the National Election and the entire Slovenian public. Deception again! And look how to put it differently than the Prime Minister of this government said when she said that the current government had lost its development focus. That's right! This government is now trying to come to Parliament with one law, which, practically in this area, according to my personal assessment and even at the assessment of the Slovenian Democratic Party, is not solving anything, but in particular does not solve the key problems facing our local self-government. We urgently need regionalisation or a second degree of local self-government, and this is the only way to develop this country significantly more coherently than it is now. These differences, honey, say, Ljubljana and Styria, Koroška statistical region, and not to talk about pomurski and so on – what huge differences are in the development of these regions! At least 30% of the difference, extremely high unemployment. If you look at Koroška, or if you look at Pomurje, or look at the region of Koroška, you will see what huge differences there are and how much people earn here in Ljubljana, what they earn in Styria, Koroška and Pomurje, then everyone will understand. And you're trying to destroy everything you've written here in the normative plan with this law you brought to the table. And this law does not solve this problem in any way, and you cannot expect more consistent regional development. You know why not? This law re-emphasizes the situation as it has been so far. Now the ministries and the government have virtually everything in their hands. And then how can we talk about decentralisation of this country? How do you think this country will develop in a coherent manner if we do not decentralise the country, if we do not transfer money from ministries, from ministries to lower levels and with the money that ministries now have, the regions will have. And if they could have this money, because, in the previous mandate, it was said that about a billion 200 euros would have been transferred to the regional area and if this money were to move to the regional area, surely development in these regions would have been completely different than it is now. Of course, when ministries do not want to transfer powers to a second degree of local self - government! Logically, because they're clinging to what I don't know because they know and realize that there's power in the ministries, and they won't let that power go. The former government was capable and Prime Minister Janez Janša was capable of being Prime Minister because he and the ministers have found appropriate solutions, how and exactly what and how to transfer to the regions. In that case, the strength of the country would be reduced, and this is very important if we are to strengthen coherent regional development in our country. This is very important! But we haven't done any of this with this law, absolutely nothing. I am listening to the Minister first, arguing that the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia has aligned itself with the Ministry in relation to this law. Here today is Mr Lah, who is the Vice-President of this association – he knows nothing about this! So, how can someone claim that someone can afford to claim that things have been aligned with this association? I understand the Minister that he trusted the president of this association, but that does not mean – if the Vice-President is here and here very clearly states that this association has never been coordinated or adopted any decision at this association, it is said that this law is not in line with this association. Then we have SOS, the Community of Slovene municipalities. Among other things, the Minister said, "We had the planned coordination." Do you know what it means, "we had a planned coordination"? That this coordination has not taken place! How can it be said that this law is in harmony with this association? Tell me how! This is the absurdity of all absurdities. Believe me, I don't understand this anymore. It is said that he came back to Parliament, to a parliamentary procedure a law that is not coordinated with anyone, except within some individuals, and which the coalition blindly believes because of such and different interests. However, if this government thinks and this coalition thinks that the opposition will bypass it and convince it that it is the law that replaces the province's legislation, it is extremely wrong. Believe me, we are also Members and Members of the opposition who know how to read this legislation. But if we are not professionals in this area, we find those who will also teach us the right way. Believe it! And this law can under no circumstances replace provincial legislation. Believe me, if we are to improve the economic situation, the financial situation, the social situation in this country and the more coherent regional development, the only path, the only right path for regionalisation and legislation to ensure this, of course. I don't understand and I won't understand, now I don't know how long I've been listening in this House, that there's no way to decentralise this country. I don't understand. If we are Members and Members who work in the interests of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, I see no reason why we here could not accept the appropriate solutions that are written on the skin of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, but not individual elites, individual associations, networks that govern ministries, individual ministries and then through these, I will say, bureaucrats influence the policy that then adopts solutions such as those of the elites and those individuals on the skin. All of this mandate is the same story in all areas. I cannot help but say that this government now, after a few days of rejection of the Land Book Act, puts it again at the next meeting of the National Assembly or at that – I do not know exactly. That's absurd! Look, I don't know what the reason why the power is in the background is that these lawyers and notaries have to be the only ones who can put things into the land book. I don't know! So I want to say something important: once again, the lobby is in the background, and in every way it is necessary to provide some groups, some lobbyists, in order to be able to live fantastically, serve well on a poor Slovenian man – on those who have 450 euros in wages, and a pensioner who doesn't even have 500 euros in pension, and those who have a national pension of 120 or 180 euros and so on. You want to build your future on these poor people. Please, where did we come from in this country? Have you ever wondered how long it will take to represent the interests of individual groups, individual networks, and individual elites here? All together, when you perform in the media, you say that something has to be done, but when we get to a point where we could change, we have adopted solutions that would be written on the skin of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and we have done nothing. Believe me, the Slovenian Democratic Party is an alternative to this government, it has programs, it has goals and we will prove that we are not a party that we are only here to collect wages, but we are a party that we know exactly what we want. We'll prove it! We have demonstrated the previous mandate because this government alone was able to bring complete provincial legislation before the National Assembly – but why was it rejected? It was again rejected because of the interests of individuals who are so strong in these coalition parties that they can easily stop any matter. And he can laugh and mock anyone in the National Assembly, the fact is that it's the truth. And sooner or later, we will look ahead and realize that this is true, and start to think differently and accept the solutions that are written on the skin of most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia – it will be easier for us. However, if we do not do so, believe me that the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members is the alternative to doing so. And citizens and citizens, I am sure they will understand this in the right way. Over and over again comes our table of legislation, which is not in line with anyone who does not contain any concrete, important, quality solutions for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and tries to blur the space just so that the four years pass away and the results are no. Or I will say, citizens and citizens, who are waiting for solutions so that we can live better in this country – that is not the case. And this is that problem, and I repeat why Interior Minister Katarina Kresal said this famous phrase: "The government has lost its development focus." If the government itself does not believe itself, ministers who are the principles of this government do not believe themselves, say such things, then it is logical that with this government, something is really wrong with this coalition. I have to say this ten times. I'm going to repeat this sentence a hundred times because it's amazing that a government like this can rule in this country, where the minister says that this government is completely worthless. Should such governments believe citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia? Dear colleagues and colleagues – including members of the LDS Group – laugh – their minister and the president of their party make such statements to the public. That's really funny! But it is true that laughter is half healthy, and I agree with that. Dear friends, I'll try to close the debate. I will say this: this law is not a law that solves a key issue in this area. I am sure that this law will not give citizens and citizens anything. Neither I nor I, and I am sure, can support the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group because we believe that the only way to solve this problem is through regionalisation. And if this government does not understand and is unable to prepare these solutions, then another government, who knows what needs to be done in this country, will have to do it better and better for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in this world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Zanoskar has the floor. Get Mr. Györek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Unlike my predecessor's colleague, I will not defend the rightfulness of the existence of DeSUS in Parliament, because it is in itself conditional, so the voters wanted, but in my debate I would like to focus on the topic that is present today, namely the law on promoting coherent regional development. Look, when the intervention law to promote the development of Koroška fell in this House, I have also lived personally in some expectation and in some fear of what will happen to these regions that are very far from other developed regions. Personally, I wanted this gap, achieved by the fall of our intervention law on the development of Koroška, to be exceeded as soon as possible in order to get this law on promoting coherent regional development to the table. It's a patch. It's a patch, not just for Koroška. This patch is probably also for all those regions that have introduced the intervention law on their development, as well as for those who have thought about putting this law into the procedure. I am confident, and I also hope that this law, which is experiencing a fiery baptism today, will eventually, after modification, take such form and content and so much weight that it will fill this gap, which would otherwise be filled by this intervention law. Throughout the whole procedure, a lot of comments and a lot of attacks by municipalities, by the Community of municipalities, by all other institutions have now been tabled. I think that's right. I think it shows that it is the interest, that the law is formed to such an extent, that it will be useful, that it will be effective, that it will produce some results. And today's debates, which are focused on this, are, in my opinion, also constructive in some way, as they will review all these comments at the Ministry and include them, as is necessary. Of course, I don't find all the comments in place. I don't think all the comments are comprehensible. As some point out, marriage brings about a centralisation. Look, I can't see this centralization. If we are building on the endogenousity of all the measures or mechanisms of this law, then we see that these areas, which are border areas which are at risk of areas in a particular situation today, are precisely those areas where the unemployment rate is higher and those areas which do not have road links, are not privileged, but they have a great potential to gain more through the mechanisms of this law. Border areas, which is also Koroška, are problematic because these areas are being emptied. People go to the other side of the border, so to Austria. Not only people, but also companies are setting up their factories in Austrian territory, where the price of land is much lower and cheaper than that of us. Thus, the promotion in this respect is of great importance. It is very important that this area of higher unemployment is also covered here. These areas are then given some additional resources, some additional incentives, and this is good. I will not talk about the endogenousity of this system in such a way that it is expected that only one development region will seek within itself and its internal development potential, this will not work. We are already doing this, but if there is no effective financial approach and financial support, then a region with some potential will not be able to help and will not be able to drive all these potentials to such an extent that they will give some new jobs of added value. Several more questions are being raised in this law and, as I said, the DeSUS Group will think about these questions and would like to receive answers to these questions at that time. The work of the regional development agencies – of course we know the work of the RRAs so far, but if the RRA is the point of reference, the link between the Ministry, the Government and the development region, then we are afraid that these RRAs will, as so far, show too much of the picture of administrative units and administrative points through which certain things will happen in this or that direction. So, towards the development region, through the development world of the region to the ministry and vice versa. We want the RRA to be a service to this development region, a service that would also listen to the development programmes of individual municipalities, and not so much an administrative content will be introduced into their work. Since RRA funding is 60% by the state, as well as the state or the ministry directs and dictates the content of these RRAs, it is little fear that they will say that they have also received from the Ministry the authority to do their work, the concession, now they are doing it in the way they do, and that they will not listen enough to the individual municipalities and these development projects that we will design in the municipalities. After all these discussions, the work of the Regional Development Council has now received these percentages, 40% of the mayors, 40% of the economy and 20% of the other non-governmental institutions. Although 40% of the mayors are worse than they were in the original state than they are now, in the current development world all the mayors are, so all municipalities are represented. In some ways, however, a solution will have to be found, because in these 40% of the mayors there will probably be those larger municipalities that have a better perspective and more opportunities for some development projects, but they should not forget the participation of smaller municipalities, they also have their own development programmes and should also be included so as to participate equally in the entire part of the regional development council. Everything depends on the effectiveness of the law; the effectiveness of the law is likely to be when it is adopted in the National Assembly with all the modifications and comments, and the effectiveness will be when funds are allocated for the implementation of this law, which will go into those specific cases for which the law applies and this effectiveness is necessary immediately. See, this difference between developed and underdeveloped regions is simply increasing and this gap is increasing and we can reach a point where it will never again be possible to cover this gap with such or with different law and make our country evenly developed throughout the area. I know, and I don't pretend; this law didn't replace the land laws, it's not. I wish for myself, perhaps many of you wish that this law on the provinces would be given to the table in this mandate and adopted. Look, in the previous term, the law on the provinces was well drafted, in my opinion, but the adoption of such a law requires political will and political readiness, which was not enough at the time. I doubt now that the creation of a single law on the provinces would achieve one political synergy to such an extent that it would be adopted. So let's not wait for the land law now, let's adopt this law on promoting coherent regional development, because for those of us coming from less developed regions, there is one saving plant and one possibility of getting that money or the opportunity to start developing faster and looking for a bigger step or a smaller step towards those who are already developed. Personally, I think that the first consideration is, so the fiery baptism is good, even regardless of the comments they are. The law will be modified, shaped to such an extent that I am confident that in the end it will take the form that will be acceptable for most of us sitting here, but above all I hope that you have in mind in the drafting of this law also us who come from these regions that we have tried with intervention laws and that the willingness to adopt law in the next stages will be better than today. I'm sure it'll work today, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Györek has the word to prepare himself for the Mag. Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister of Colleagues and colleagues! I am pleased that we have finally received any version or extremely needed proposal for a law on the promotion of coherent regional development, as well as the relevant regulations and regulations, such as the Regulation on Regional Development Programmes, the Rules on Regional Development Agencies, etc., which I believe will also merit thorough consideration, as such will be crucial to the implementation of this law. But if I move on to the law itself. It must be acknowledged that in the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, the proposer very well, accurately and accurately divided the real situation in the Republic of Slovenia, highlighted the key facts and analysed all the existing issues that reflect the picture of problematic regional developmental inconsistencies in the Republic of Slovenia. These are very large differences in GDP generation, job density or unemployment, and consequently a critical demographic picture due to the immigration of the population into the Central Slovenian region, not to mention daily migration and migration abroad, which, unfortunately, has been overlooked by the proposaler. I hope that it will be able to process and include these factors, which also justify the need for appropriate measures and the adoption of legislation. The applicant also highlights the critical situation of non-compliance in the area of education of the population, economic potential, physical, telecommunications infrastructure, higher education – i.e. the inadequate state of the higher education programmes, etc., that I do not mention anything else. I agree that it is necessary to strengthen the relevant institutions and to link regional and regional development agencies to the development network, which, frankly, have so far not done well and carried out the missions and the roles entrusted to them. The Minister himself is such an opinion and, as I hear from several Members. This is a chapter or a problem for myself, and sooner or later I expect us to process it either here or on the competent home work bodies. In the bill itself, there are quite a few interesting contents, if I only mention the 28th article on the transfer of state assets for development purposes, namely the free transfer of the state's movable and immovable property to the property of the municipality and the competent funds. However, I expect from the Minister some further detailed explanation, details of the content of this Article. I would also like to ask for further explanation of the reasons for the proposal of Article 35, which speaks of the inclusion of the measures and financial obligations of the State in relation to the previous year adopted by the Development Support Act 2010-2015 to the Pomur Region, as well as by the Act on the post-emergency restoration of facilities and the promotion of the development of the Court. And if I were already in the framework of this law on development support for the Pomurska region, I would take this opportunity and I would now point out to everyone the current issues or situation and problems in the implementation of this law, which you can read in detail in Del, in follow-up, Dinner, today's Youth, where luckily and unfortunately also shows the problem of the implementation of such laws to the Republic of Slovenia. Although I would not discuss this in detail right now, in the short term at the regular meeting of the National Assembly, we are likely to hear a report in January on the implementation of the pomur law this year, on all roads and alleyways, abuses and expenses in the law of financial resources and more. If I am already a Member from the Pomeranian region, let me also point out some of the facts and problems facing the Pomurs again. It is sad that the more we have regional development agencies, development centres and the like, the more lagging behind in development. And by the regulation attached here to the law, the Minister, on the regional development programme, you again give, as it says, "a financially valued programme for the preparation of regional development programmes is being prepared by a regional development agency". All right and all right, so you still trust these agencies. I think that all such regional development agencies should be thoroughly rewinded and systematic supervision of their functioning, and in particular the availability of financial resources. Minister, you're mentioning you don't have the authority. I think we have a unified view in the National Assembly that for such purposes we are willing to give you all the powers you have to prepare. You can read a little bit about these issues, including the related regional development agencies in Youth, customeristic activities, the links between leeches and leeches that have sucked on the country's budget and unfortunately do not justify their work. The Pomur region has unfortunately embarked on a tragic path of developmental decline. She experienced an eruption, a literal journey of Odyssey between Scylla and the Caribbean, unfortunately with an unfortunate conclusion. The entire once stable economic potential has gone to nothing. I would not now expose the main culprits, but certainly they have demolished the region with the blessing of the country. And that is why it is up to you and us, too, to see to it that the people of these and such regions are better off living when we adopt any such law, especially in implementation. The Pomurs or the Prekmurs are not stupid or incompetent, they were once in economic prosperity, in the previous country – unfortunately. They're starting to become self-sustaining. There's been this kind of eruption in transition time. Now tell me, the generations are the same, the same people, just that now they've run out of factories and no jobs, and don't tell me it's people's fault now! The blame is on you, on us, on a country that lets that happen! The masonry is a typical case. Not to mention Pomurka, Mure, Consumer, Radenska, Moravian Spas, now, as I hear from recent times, the same is happening with Nafta Lendava, with the staff exchange you have already started, you will hire experts, a state company – and what can we expect? So it was with Mura, so it was with Pomurka, so it says, the script is already ready, what is behind it, but it is clear: tycoonization, ownership, which has led the whole region to the brink of collapse, if not already to the collapse. And now, if you ask me personally, what else do we have? Any law you present to us here, we have no choice but to accept it personally, because it represents any matter, as my colleague Zanoškar said, any kind of lifesaving plant — or I would say straw first. So many opportunities have been lost that we have already mentioned in the Slovenian National Party itself. Like an aeronautical museum. With your own secretary or Pahor's secretary, we thought about this, and look at where the funds from this pomur law ended: in the now so-called so-called, modern, soft projects, some brochures, such as government service for local self-government and regional policy. The programme to promote the competitiveness of the Pomeranian region is good, it probably cost nothing and was prepared by our institution. Should I now mention 600,000 funds spent for the purpose of some promotion of the Pomeranian region? Should I talk about 115 thousand lost funds for some "kobayagi" social entrepreneurship? Come on, please! Why don't you "filate" us with these projects, with some studies, with some analysis of Pacha, go to any region, everywhere. [[...]] You don't need anything else, maybe just change some data, everything else is just "flanking" and fund-raising. Seven, eight million went to shit — we'll talk about it in January! He was right, colleague Barovic, to be determined – even in the law you could, I don't know, miss out on why – regional specificities, all economic and other potentials, because each region has something that is worth exposing and all investment and development directed in that direction. I will never have a steel industry in Prekmurje, and they will probably never grow grains in Gorenjska. Pomurje, look again at one proof, it was once a grain shop, it was the garden of Slovenia; it meant something in the Yugoslav scale. What have we done now? Destroy the little farmer, introduce that I will not say the dangers of some major agricultural combinations again. And nothing else should be done as a re-launching of the existing agri-food infrastructure, investing in rural areas, encouraging, not least, biogas projects or power plants, but limiting them, as was the case just now. The Ministry of Economy has issued a regulation restricting or imposing changes in the conditions for investment in the Pomurska region, where we have the most established bio-power plants, which have at least shown some light on the horizon somewhere, but at least some will be built, that at least a few people will have a profit, a job so that small farmers can sell to someone else, not just one, so that they will not be blackmailed and so on. Well, we're on the committee, thank God, we've come to the conclusion that this matter is being rectified or repaired and that, at the end of the day, I hope, there will be as much damage as it has shown since the beginning. In short, Mr Minister, I will not continue to undermine your bill because I believe that you have put some good will and work into it. But I can't tell you that this is actually going to solve, not just my region, but Koroška. Thus, in the implementation of the law, as I have already said, reservations are justified, we know from practice that the law of Pomur is just a typical example of how a well-intentioned matter can be, if I say so at home,'swipe'. I will not discuss this, however, because the matter is likely to be under review by the competent authorities – at least I hope. That's your job, too. If you're going to excuse your innocence in some way, you're going to have to assign someone to ask who's responsible for investigating matters. Last but not least, this law will involve even more resources for more transfers of state property. You can only imagine, if this is how it's going to be, then it's going to be a domestic, "thief of the century". By no means can we expect progress from the development in Pomour, but more so will the wealth of some individuals, but most people will remain in the way they are, or in the worst. For the money that has been saved usually never returns again. Minister, you have all my personal support because I know you have good intentions to do something. But you'll still have to finish this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr Saiovic has the floor to prepare Mr Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Good-bye to the Minister. Thank you so much for saying that. We have a law on coherent regional development ahead of us. Many debates suggest that we would like a story about coherent regional development and a magic wand. From the story of one of the laws, let's call it the Pomour Act, we can learn that the law is not yet a guarantee of success, that a lot of common sense is needed, and in particular reflection and concrete decisions. I think it's a marriage proposal, we're talking about it in the first reading today, the right basis for us to go on with the story. Experiences from the past, not just these and previous governments, but they teach us that things need to be done differently. I used to listen to my opposition colleagues. It surprises me that there is nothing left to be resolved in this area, because things are so simple and so simple – something within the four years of the previous government, to get rid of them within a month or two! I'm really surprised and disappointed that this wasn't done. But with this problem, forgive cynicism, consistent regional development deals with the whole world, and no one has ever saved it just like that, overnight. But it is good to think in the field of rationalisation and organisation, too, to do much. I didn't even agree to soft content, different strategies, plans. This is something by Slovenian municipalities and by ministries. If all the money we spend on development were to be earmarked for better roads, for cheaper land in municipal areas, for cheaper infrastructure, then much more concrete work would be done and, above all, more effectively done. Even in the design of regional development agencies, I think that this is a model that now deserves and needs upgrades so that they can be better, even more effective. It would be unwise, however, for us to tear down and tear down and plant something again where we have set it well and efficiently. No need! What is good must be preserved, of course, what has proved to be expensive ballast for taxpayers’ money, with that story simply has to be interrupted, strengthened by the responsibility of all those who perform public functions, in order to make better use of taxpayers' resources, especially more effectively. I want a lot of action and less inflation of words. Today there was also much to be said about the regionalisation of Slovenia. We had the solutions of six, maybe seven, and we did not establish them for political reasons. It is clear that certain political options would want some major regional constituencies, not specific provinces, which are sufficiently large in terms of both staff, resources and money. Simply so that my speech is not lost in the inflation of words, we have a solid basis for further work, which all together, both in opposition and position, can be improved and upgraded. For regional development is not, of course, a party, nor a positional or coalition matter, but it is significantly broader. It concerns all of us in this round hall, as well as those who have entrusted us with our mandates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr Rezman has the floor to prepare Mr Battelli, Mr Slapnik and then Mr Lah. Mr. Rezman Yes, just a few seconds. You're giving up — not enough time. I'm sorry. Mr Lach has the floor to prepare Mr Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The current law and the realisation of European funds. Instead of speeding up or giving more energy to the government, or focusing on drawing up existing funds and preparing projects to draw on these funds, the government's service went to prepare this new law, a system law which I think is not a system law, but a "flashing holes" between the first and second levels of local self-government. In some ways, it is trying to replace the provinces and justify this through the European Community so that it can draw on these funds for regional development. If we look at the pumping or realisation of cohesion funds from the environmental and transport infrastructure programme, we can see that the pumping that has been carried out is the pumping of projects at the country level, in particular infrastructure projects. In confirmed operations by the end of this year, we have projects such as the energy rehabilitation of public legal entities' buildings in the field of health – 52 million. Motorway Beach – Oaks and Ponikve–Pluska – 53 million. This is already built, these are not the projects we need to pump. We also have further planned confirmations by the end of this year, the motorway section of Ponikve–Crasti 34 million – built, dedicated to use in the middle of the year. However, we have interesting projects such as the removal and cleaning of waste water in the upper Drava area, the decommissioning and cleaning of waste water in the Krka area, the second part, and the provision of drinking water in the Shaleška Valley area, which are interesting projects and which we do not know what stage these projects are, what is the readiness of these projects, whether the funds will really be exhausted or not, how many projects have not yet been put into space. All we know is that 190 municipalities have not yet adopted the UN. We requested these reports on the Committee on Local Self-Government a year and a half ago. Until today we have not received them, the Minister has promised to do so by the end of October and to present them. That's not gonna happen. I strongly doubt that the funds from the projects will be spent 20, 25 million where the facilities are not yet placed in space. We have modernisation of the Divača-Koper railway line: 80 million, date of confirmation 13. 9. 2010 Where's the project? We have an accepted spatial act, we have acquired land for this facility. Nothing. These are the facts that the government service, as the managing authority, should require, or from representative bodies, such as individual ministries. If I go specifically to individual projects that I know, I don't think so. For example, CEROD 2, Dolenjska: a two-year project at the Ministry of Environment and Space in the operational programme for implementation and the Minister or Inspectorate of this Ministry issued a decision on the cessation of waste disposal. Who's to blame? Where's the project? Who knows what the situation is on the project? Finally, take the Dolenjci, and the Nebenjajci will go ahead. Is that the way? Are we going to drive to Maribor to process the waste and re-deposit the remains to the dump because we couldn't secure the realization of CEROD 2? And there are stories like that. Suhokrainian water supply. He's not moving anywhere for a year and a half. Now, Minister, if you do not prepare the project by the end of 2011, this project will be deleted for this programming period and perhaps 10 years will be nothing. The municipalities are supposed to give a million and a half to prepare the project, with the Ministry of Environment and Space saying they are not sure if these funds will be provided. What should we do, mayors? We put resources into budgets, we prepare a project, we end up getting a few hundred service contracts, we let people know, this is going to work. Do you know what they're doing? [[...]] We're counting, and people are shaking hands, if you don't, it's never gonna happen. The fact is. As far as this law is concerned, this law shall enter into force, but the operational programmes shall be for the new programming period. The implementation plans remain. The implementation plans will be replaced by a new operational programme or will be replaced by an agreement with the Ministry, which is for four years, but I think also for the new programming period. And we need to draw this money from this programming period. 7.8 % of the OPERA programme alone has so far been certified applications. Where are we? We will now deal with this law for six months, and we will miss out on all possibilities that we will draw these funds from this programming period. Unless the government invents some projects that may now be being prepared at the country level, they will end up saying that the funds would not remain in Europe, but instead instead of those projects that the municipalities have not prepared, they will spend this money on these projects so that it will not remain in Europe. What about the purpose of this law, the former and the latter, of coherent regional development? Believe me, I can't see the way out of this. I do not speak politically, because I am on this side of the hall, I speak as the mayor, as the fourth term, and finally as the Vice-President of the Association of Municipalities, where we are trying to do as much as possible. I have already said that in current regional development agencies, as we are organised, there are no cohesion projects, there are only means of regional incentives and some other issues, more or less soft projects. If we did a survey of regional development agencies, which we mayors have by little, we would see. And I have stressed that cohesion projects need to be run by someone at the regional level as well – regional development agencies, which are really involved in this law. Just the way, the responsibility! I think the real solution is just the provinces: the provincial council, the president of the province, the loved ones who answer. At the level of the region, I do not see the real responsibility of the main actors. The service lays down conditions and gives licences to certain regional development agencies. The regional development agencies now have perhaps ten employees on average, after a new twenty-thirty, within this manager. This will appear to be because the service gives authority, and it can also take power. So, the state. Consent to the development world of the region. This will look like my director of the municipal administration being appointed by your office, not the mayor. And it's centralization! Whoever says it's not to prove it. I think it would be much better if we went to the provincial legislation, maybe not the door to the nose, as set out and promised in the programme, but let us do what we set ourselves in this programming period. I'm afraid that won't happen. I think Minister Roko Žarnic is also concerned about his projects because they are the most difficult projects because the legislation is not regulated. At the beginning of this mandate, the Minister of Transport said that if we did not change the legislation, that state-owned projects would be able to be placed in a space such as, say, the DARS or have the same powers, that they would probably both go with the Minister of Environment and Space. The Minister for the Environment and Space has gone, but for the garbage, not for this law. And so far nothing has been done. He was aware at the time, I don't know if it's still the importance of this marriage. And finally, I think this is nothing more than the influence of politics or taking on the decisive role of politics at the local level, because without a landscape or a second level of local self-government, it will not work in the long term. I think that in the Government we should carefully consider whether now is the time for such interventions, or whether we should not go to provincial legislation, and give the rest of the energy to the execution of this programming period, which is ahead of us or which will also begin to run out slowly. Now that the Minister has returned, on this meeting with you and coordination, about which my colleague Pojbič had already talked about, let me say that I was a little late, but President Strink said he had to leave the meeting prematurely, and we remained, some mayors and I, with you. And I didn't have the feeling that we were in line, that we were in. Finally, I was surprised when he was outside the President, waiting for a press conference when the meeting was over, and then I learned from the media that we were coordinated. So far, I have not heard from any mayor or member of the Presidency that this law supports. Indeed, it is a strange time after the elections, when the new Presidency has not yet been established, because we do not have representatives of the regions throughout Slovenia. I think it was premature. And in addition to receiving some negative opinions from the congregations regarding this law, you cannot believe that this is really a firm position of the Congregation Assembly. The congregation was invited, but it has not attended, and so far it has mostly taken place. Perhaps you should ask them what their opinion is, whether they really agree with this draft or this bill, or whether they have a different opinion. I had previously read part of the opinion of the Municipality of Ljubljana what their opinion was about this law. In addition to the Municipality of Maribor, I believe that they are leading the main policy of this association or of the Community of Communities. It is necessary to consider whether it is a meaningful law, such as that, to move forward or whether it makes sense for regional development agencies to increase to no longer know how much. On the other hand, we know that we need the provinces – all the mayors and associations say so – and then we will have a few more members of the regional development agency besides the administrative units, and I don't know what else we're going to have to push into the country's authorities, so that the unemployed are not the ones who are now in the regions or are the expositions of ministries across the whole of Slovenia. Finally, I would say that in some ways the service confirms the correct distribution of Slovenia to the provinces, as presented in the previous government, into 14 provinces, with 12 development regions now in place, with regional development partnerships; it is said that there is an even greater need for division of these areas. I think it is right that you are thinking in this direction, but it will also be easier to find a political consensus for the adoption of provincial legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Gjerkesh spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor! I would like to remind you that the government was obliged by Parliament to discuss the intervention law on Kočev and the White Krajina, if you remember that it has drawn up a system law. By discussing whether or not such a system law is necessary in Parliament – probably when Parliament adopted this decision, it also imposed an obligation on the Government to submit this system law by which time. The conclusion that the real situation of harmonious development in Slovenia is also poor. Again, the question is, do we not need a new law? In fact, I will repeat again: this legislation does not deal with the territorial division of Slovenia. The existing law on promoting coherent regional development has also been primarily designed to adapt the implementation of European cohesion policy. Therefore, 12 statistical regions at NUTS 3, two at NUTS 2. This is also true in this law. So, let's not mention any division into 12, less. We also enable more coherent regional development within the regions, by making regional development partnerships in particular effective, where municipalities combine with interest, and thus better achieve – even in those regions where development is relatively heterogeneous, such as, say, in south-eastern Slovenia – their demands and desires in a regional sense. It has also been said that the law is not financially supported, so I must say that this law is not empty at all. We have made a great deal of efforts when the budget was clarified mainly on the expenditure side, so that we can provide funds that, under similar conditions as they were created in Pomurje, allow for regional direct incentives on, I will say, the inhabitants. And this is a response to those intervention laws that you have already dealt with in Parliament, to finding a systemic equivalent solution. By upgrading this with the resources we are directing to border areas and high unemployment areas, with European agricultural policy, as I have already said with specific guarantee schemes, credit schemes and so on. We have also coordinated RRA supervision and its functioning, which will have to be in the public interest in particular, with regional development agencies. Of course, we are aware of the problems of regional development agencies and this exists in most regions. I must say that in some regions, regional development agencies are doing their job, but history, at least a decade of history, has forced them, I must say, to say thanks to the State, to start dealing with things that have no public interest whatsoever. Now, by carrying out these mandatory tasks, which are tax-listed in the law, we will be concerned in the public interest that they can do so. Of course, they can do something else, but for that they will have to have additional human and financial resources. There is also no comment on the definition of regional specificity in the law itself, because we are talking about a partnership sharing of responsibility for the development of the regions. And that will be the responsibility and in my opinion also the tasks that the regions will perform most, because they know best what they have, what they want and how to do it. This will be defined in the regional development programme, which will be coordinated with the Government of the World for Territorial Coordination of Development Initiatives, an agreement for the development of the regions. These arrangements will be twelve, i.e. for each region individually, so that the specificities of each region will be covered here as well as comparative advantages and priorities for the development of the region itself. Let me explain our coordination with the ZOS. Of course you missed a few minutes, but in those initial minutes we did not reach any conclusions, you know that the meeting lasted about an hour or maybe a little longer that Mr Stinky had left earlier, he said, because he has some obligations elsewhere, but it was a few minutes before that, before we closed the meeting. So, even in these few minutes, we have not come to any conclusions other than those that Mr Smrdelj as President of the Slovenian Association of Municipalities said at the press conference after – we can all read this – that we have coordinated ourselves in key matters. We have also agreed to send the agreed form of law to the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, in particular in those articles that touch the composition and functioning of the development council of the region and then, in the next intervention, agree on any further minor changes that may be necessary. However, in principle, that division was agreed upon; therefore, we stressed, we agreed on an additional emphasis on the role of mayors. It is about keeping the development council of the regions, as proposed – I am talking about the coordination of the Union of Slovenian Municipalities – that is, 40% of the mayors, not more than the elected representatives, but of the mayors, 40% of the representatives of the economy and 20% of the representatives of NGOs and prominent individuals. However, key strategic and implementing documents such as the regional development agreement, such as the regional development programme, will be addressed by all the mayors there; thus, when these important documents are decided on, all the mayors and these documents will not be accepted if 60% of all mayors covering at least 50% of the population are not accepted for these strategic documents. And this is actually a key, essential change that we agreed on at this meeting. The Community of the municipalities of Slovenia is expected to be left behind for logistical reasons at this meeting, and they will also receive our conclusions or the results of our coordination, because we know from experience that the views of the two representative associations are not diametrically opposite, I say otherwise, quite similar, I do not see much need for further coordination in the future. Of course, if they do, we will reunite with one or the other, or with both of them, and agree on the most appropriate dictates of these articles that we have discussed. However, I must say that the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy has not received any opinion from the Municipality of Ljubljana, unfortunately. If it's somewhere else, it hasn't even come to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word is Mirko Brulc. Get Mira Friday ready. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u78	Mr. Secretary, Mr. President! This morning we listened to Commissioner Janez Potočnik, who spoke about the Commission's 2011 programme. We should all listen to this, then today's debates would certainly be different. Some of the discussions today were like a pre-election speech in their village of voters. I don't think that's good. The Ministry can't help itself. It is a crisis and the existing law does not respond to the crisis, we need to know that. That is why a new law is needed, because with small changes to the existing one we would not achieve anything. Today, however, some seem to be against this law and the matter is closed in the first reading. How would it be if we predicted provincial law because we'd be biting around here? It's a struggle to survive, we need to know that. The economy is such as, local communities are trying as they are, there is a competition. I come from Primorska and we know how it is. Many years ago we had competed with an extremely strong Furlania-Julia landscape, which was good for our companies, but not the ones in Nova Gorica that tied to Hit, but look at Idria, Cerkno and so on what companies we have. It takes a lot of knowledge. Today it has already been said that we have mastered everything. A colleague from Prekmur said, "We had a good life." Yeah, we've lived well, we've lived very well beyond our means. But we never have enough knowledge. The odds that we don't need soft programs don't hold. How many companies, craftsmen, small entrepreneurs, how many local communities can write a good programme to get European funding? Very little. That is why a lot of money must be invested in the mind, as we say at home. We were rich, we lived off business – these times are over. If someone in the world is working for a rice plant, what our workers in Mura have done, then we know that the perspective is not in this and we need to work in other areas. Arrangements between congregations are urgently needed. We have fragmented congregations in such a way that it is a disaster. And before the 13 mayors agree on something in our area, in Prekmurje 25 or how much, the supply of drinking water, the cleaning facilities, the garbage dumps, which is not very interesting for the inhabitants, because that's all in the country. The national hero is the mayor who makes beautiful sidewalks, crews of palm trees, puts some bridges across Ljubljana. But this is not a perspective for our development, we need something else and there's a very difficult deal. Therefore, this law will help to make more of these arrangements and to do something to overcome this problem of backwardness, low added value, and more. We have some propulsive, high-tech companies, but we must not forget those who serve their bread with their hands. We must not forget agriculture, other activities, and not only start on high-tech companies, which are wagons. That is why I also say: education. I'm asking universities, doctors of science that we promote weekly, and where is that knowledge to pull this economic cart out of the crisis? Where are your science doctors and stuff? Look, we must once realize that the municipalities will not be able to survive through the funds they receive under the Local Self-Government Act, that additional funds will have to be sought from Europe and so on. And these funds won't come from themselves. The coherent regional development law actually allows access to these foreign funds; and that is good, and I will, of course, support it. I must say that I support this bill. It is indeed in the first reading, so let the presidents of the ZOS and the SOS agree on what they want, and it is not too late that with wise suggestions, smart amendments we will bring this law to life to benefit all local communities, those who have 500, 600 inhabitants and care only for flowers and beautiful facades in the village, to those who have to drag this wagon further. Let's put this energy together and do something good together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The word is Mira Friday. Have Franz Jursha ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. When you, colleagues and colleagues in the coalition, rejected the development aid law of the Koro region, there were several emotions mixed in Koroška. Unfortunately, on the one hand, there is anger, on the other hand, from the mercy of this coalition, if, because they do not know what they are doing, to the question of whether Koroška and Koroški are still being judged in this country or are we really somewhere on the verge of being written down and forgotten. The law envisaged €222.2 million in five years for development assistance to the Caribbean region, and it will be interesting to monitor this law, which you will adopt over a period of six months. And we will see if this marriage of yours will bear fruit and how much of it Koroshka will have. I'm sure as much as our marriage was supposed to be, never. At the same time, it is interesting to hear and listen to your discussions when you say how you are preparing and adopting the best laws, and on the other hand there is increasing poverty in the country, there are 102 000 unemployed and just over. We hear the Minister ensuring that we have a very good legal system, that we have the best right, and at the same time we have very large injustices in the country. You and the public are trying to convince us that we have the best government, and the country is in crisis as never before. Of course, this law is, in some ways, according to your assessment, the best law that will encourage more coherent regional development in Slovenia. The present, however, shows, and the future will certainly confirm that there are differences and that the differences between the regions will be even greater. At the same time, without any shame, you can pass laws on the Municipality of Ljubljana or on the town of Pomour, and all the rest and all the other citizens are in some way second-class or even third-class citizens. True, this law does not belong to regions of Slovenia. But, colleagues and colleagues, look, I have a document reorganising police administrations, a starting point for a decision to approach the reorganisation or a reduction in the number of these. And in this material, the Ministry's works and the General Police Administration, they're talking about regions. "The organisation of the police is adapted to 8 provinces." – The police therefore members of Slovenia to eight provinces – they continue to say: "Comparation of the model of eight provinces with the organisation of police administrations: Dolenjska krajina covers the area of Police Administration Krško i Novo mesto, Gorenjska krajina covers the area of Kranj Police Administration, Central Slovene province covers the area of Police Administration Ljubljana and Cerknica Police Station [[Police Administration Postojna]] , Podravska krajina covers the area of Maribor Police Administration, Pomurska krajina covers the area of Murska Sobota Police Administration, Primorska krajina covers the area of Koper Police Administration and Police Station Postojna and Illyrska Bistrica Police Station [[Police Administration Postulated]] , Goriška krajina covers the area of Nova Gorica Police Administration, Savinjska krajina covers the area of the Police Administration Celje and the Police Administration of Slovenj Gradec." It is a pity that colleagues from the Municipality of Slovenj Gradec, who were just sitting here on the balcony, have already left to hear how the country is crossing the Koro Region, how the Police Administration of Slovenj Gradec is crossing. Next: "In the event of the establishment of six provinces, the Podravska and Pomurska Province and the Primorska and Goriška Province unite." This division of Slovenia has been drawn by the police. I don't think they did it on their own. They had some starting points, and they certainly had the consent of the rest of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. For there are other documents, such as the Analysis of Developmental Resources and Scenarios for Modelling Functional Regions. So in Slovenia we have in addition to statistical development, health and God knows other regions, also functional regions. Let what is said in this paper: "In this way, instead of the idea of relatively independent, weak border sub-regions, we prove and suggest that they are linked to larger territorial economic units that have synergistic effects. Kočevsko i Zasavje na Ljubljano, Bela krajina and Lower Posavje na Novo mesto, Slovenian Koroška na Celje." Interesting!? Slovenian Koroška na Celje, Savinja Valley. We never tried Celje, before Velivec and Celovec or Maribor. Mooring on Maribor, Notranska na Koper. Of course, this violence is a violation of the will of the people of Korosci, such a breakdown that takes place in some part of the illegal world. And in this way, not by this law, such documents are used through the side door to establish regionalisation in Slovenia and to draw the provincial borders. I'd say that. I don't believe in the good intentions of this marriage, I really don't. As colleagues have already said, it is an excellent analysis of this situation, which is bad, at least for these border regions. And the doing of this power, the doing of this government reminds me of the bovary, of course, by Flaubert Madame Bovary, who wanted to outdo herself. And even this government has surpassed itself over some foolishness and incompetence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u81	Thank you very much. He has the word Franz Jurša, to prepare Anton Anderlich and then Branko Marinič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The greeting is also valid for the Minister and the associate. Colleagues and colleagues! In my opinion, the law before us is necessary in any case. In the previous mandate and even at the beginning of this mandate, there was considerable talk about regional organisation. I am convinced that there must be a great deal of political will for this activity. I think there is too much distribution in this temple right now to be able to put a law on the provinces, which is crucial, at least in my opinion, for more coherent regional development. However, since I started by saying that this law is necessary, I think I should say some basic things that we should finance through law, so that we can finally talk about establishing the provinces in the future. All those who live in areas that are not developed, which we are experiencing in this economic crisis with underdevelopment, unemployment and prospects, of course we are thinking differently from the central part of Slovenia, which we have significantly more developed. If we want more consistent regional development, first of all in all those statistical regions that do not yet have it in all households, we need to provide healthy drinking water. That's base one. The second issue is to arrange road infrastructure. Here I mean state roads as well as municipal local roads. Waste — key importance. This is also what the Regulation of the European Union imposes on us. I mean not only landfills, but modern landfills in every statistical region. At this point, we are talking about 10 suitable landfills or sorting sites — or what else could I call them, CERODI, some other names. Also, if, of course, it satisfies the local environment, it can be when we are talking about 12 statistical regions. Of course, the economy is also important for the development of regions, future landscapes. Today we are talking about that every smallest municipality in Slovenia would like to have its own business-industry-turn zone. But some municipalities, even larger ones, do not now have, even in undeveloped areas, and simply prospective, desirable entrepreneurs from other regions or abroad cannot offer the opportunity to develop there. Our problems are spatial municipal plans. That's the first problem. The second problem is that in the business zone, the trade-industry zone has to be invested in resources to train it to have investors come at all. And the basis is that we should also ensure this through this law. And the key, at least for my understanding, is to help develop tourism, at least in those regions that have these potentials. Help build tourist facilities, help build footpaths, cycling paths. When we ensure this and we will all start out the same, then in any case we must begin to think that if not before, we will also establish the provinces in the territory of Slovenia. How many of these landscapes will, in the final stage, not so important, is that they are well-organised and that they take care of development. I must say, in a way, I am pleased that we also have a regional development partnership in this law. In the area from which I come, we have experience in this area, and I must say that we have been involved in this regional development partnership between the two statistical regions and that we have achieved tangible results on some projects with the will of individuals. At the same time, this may also be the basis for this organisation at the level of the regional development partnership to be transferred to the province itself. Maybe some of my basic thoughts about the Pomour intervention law. This intervention law on Pomour has already replaced this law and I must say that I am pleased that it was also adopted and very necessary in the National Assembly, but this does not mean that no law is needed for other areas as well. We have decided that we will have one; and it is right that this is the decision. There are no additional resources in this Law on Pomour, if we are realistic, that is the sum of those funds which the State devotes to certain areas. Not to mention: economy, agriculture, in our case, water supply. But I must say, I'm concerned that we have reservations within the bureaucratic apparatus. That these bureaucrats do not help us many times; that some things stand and that, for example, the choice of an engineer for the pomur water supply is not realized that the contract is not signed – well, now that the two regions have signed, for example, the third area has not yet signed – and from May to December. But that is how we, unfortunately, have legislation that still makes these matters impossible for us in many cases. I noticed, I also mentioned a problem where I was looking at data that would count as who belongs in the border area. I think the congregation as a whole in a lot of cases [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u83	Mr. Jurša, your microphone's been turned off, so another time. Mr. Anderlič has the floor [[He's not here.]] The word is Branko Marinič, please. Andrej Magajna, Loyze Potočnik, Milenko Ziherl. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u84	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Nice hello to you all! Well, it's obvious that we're going to get along very well with the predecessor, but we didn't agree in advance, because I intend to discuss Article 24 a little later. However, there is something very disturbing about me; I believe that this must be highlighted in the first consideration of this law. Why was the government actually late with the proposal? If the purpose were to be a little more serious, then all those hands that the Government had set for itself as a normative plan would be respected. These deadlines were not just like that, but these deadlines were for a certain purpose, namely that the content of the individual content of the articles would be included in the budget of the State already adopted by the National Assembly for 2011 and 2012. So here I see the first major flaw that has fallen out. The content of the bill itself does not provide sufficient serious purposes. However, if the proposal was based on replacing the provincialisation of Slovenia, the proposal of this law is far too modest. Once again, we have an intermediate solution, but this interim solution has been tested long before we've probably dealt with politics for as long as we're here. I believe that the way to help the backward regions of Slovenia was much simpler, and those who knew the territorial division of Slovenia very well knew in which areas to build a factory, or a factory to a lesser extent, or a manufacturing plant, were smooth and gave little task because they were in such situations that in this place, in this border area, a production plant should be made. And that's what happened. If we read individual articles of this proposal, we can find that it contains something similar. If we look at the basic version of the now valid law, from this version there have been three versions, so what we are currently considering is the third version, there are no significant deviations. Perhaps because the situation has changed, perhaps because some other things have changed, it is necessary to cut down after the change, but these are only the beauty of the correction. And when we look at such a version, then it's clear that we think that some of the content is just and only beautiful, or vocabulary, or I don't know how else they improve, but they don't improve the actual situation on the ground. And that's not good. I believe that a minister who hasn't led this department since the beginning of this government has been lagging behind. However, it has associates who have been involved for years and years and who have literally followed the instructions of a minister who is influenced, as the Prime Minister of the Government has said, that provincial legislation in this government is not a priority. I believe that if the Minister deepens, he will soon find that the President of the Government, when he has said this, has done injustice to the unequal development of the Republic of Slovenia in many areas. And if it is now that individual ministries are trying to save the cost of the state's functioning in the border areas, it is again a big mistake. Yesterday we discussed rail legislation. And look, if we follow the territorial development of some other European countries, then in the proposal of this railway legislation we could already incorporate solutions that the passenger transport seat in Maribor is located in New Town, that the infrastructure is in Koper or Nova Gorica. This has been done by the members of the European Community to reduce developmental underdevelopment. In the mandate of this government, not we, in the opposition, have set up a number of agencies. These are public agencies, this is a state apparatus, a state bureaucrat. Tell me, how many of these agencies have got a seat outside the capital! And don't get me wrong about anything I have against the capital, it's our joint capital. But in doing so, we forget about the even representation and development of Slovenia in its entirety! And what is it that I wanted to pay a little more attention to? You know, Minister, I ask you, however, to pay a little more attention to Article 24 where the border issue of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia is being addressed. Simply because if we look at the border areas, whether we go to Nova Gorica and look at Crassus, whether we go to the eastern part and look at Pomurje, or Slovenian mountains, or Haloze – these are all border areas. These border areas are extremely lagging behind in the development of some centres. And if there is something to be found in some border areas, then it should be noted that these areas are now undernourished with the basic infrastructure that those who live in larger cities have long ago. Or, simply to say, someone born in Ljubljana has something that someone who is born somewhere in a border area is far from there, and if I take the case of public water supply. Ladies and gentlemen, if you wanted to help the border areas that are the most underdeveloped with the content of this article, I ask you why you deleted Pomurje. Isn't the Pomurje area where you have your roots? Would it not be good to ask myself, ‘ Do I respect my roots? ’ But that's because this area is underdeveloped, and not just this area, but the rest of the areas. And to conclude: if it were a serious purpose, then this proposal would have a slightly different content. And someone said many years ago, "A purpose without a plan is only desire." This is how I see the content of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The minister called. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u86	Thank you very much. But I have to respond to that right away. You may have referred to Article 24, paragraph 5, which stipulates that the system law does not interfere with the intervention law until the expiry of the intervention law, after which Pomurje falls under the same criteria as those laid down for all areas. So no one's removing the Pomurje! Where!? But Pomurje remains under the same conditions as the law on the development support of the Pomurje region was adopted by 2015, after falling into this. In particular, it is a matter of being eliminated or avoiding the legal cross that might have come because of this, but it is true that if Pomurje, if we now delete the Pomurje law and when we adopt this bill when you adopt it, and remove the intervention law that is now in force, would almost be the same conditions in the Pomurje region as they are now, because these conditions are defined as high unemployment areas. And if you've looked there, there are all the conditions in it, such as the pomura law. This was also one of the purposes of the applicants, i.e. the Government, to ensure, under similar conditions, similar regional policy instruments such as those in Pomure. Therefore, this system law also responds to the initiatives of different regions and areas for intervention laws. It is certainly not true that this is some third version or beauty correction. I don't know if you could actually compare this law and the existing one, but it is that this law is based on a completely new paradigm. We did not conceptually start just to improve the current law, but we did go into a modern concept, confirmed in many other countries of the European Union, or also in a world that, by the way, is experiencing a renaissance of subsidiarity, which, although administratively and administratively, we cannot introduce it, but can, at this point in time, be properly implemented in the development dimension. And the fact that we have waited for the budget or have not waited for the budget, I have already said that the budget provides for the implementation of this system law already in 2011, so at the beginning of 2011, funds have been made available and this has not been in our minds, nor has it been a month or two of delays. It is true, however, that the law was very complex for coordination mainly within the Government, because it is a matter of coordinating more policies, which in fact we did not have in Slovenia in the past or there was no tradition in this area. In short, it is not about beauty repairs, it is about the key, essential changes that we want, and we are talking about, to encourage more coherent regional development of Slovenia and within the regions. Well, even if you called me "the late minister," it's not nice, it's the first time I've heard that. But I must say that very quickly, even if I start somewhere a little later, I am approaching those standards that must also be for the work that I call the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word is by Andrej Magajna [[He's not here.]] Aloise Potočnik [[He's not here.]] Milenka Ziherl. Get Anton Urh ready and then Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A nice greeting to the Minister with a colleague, a colleague and a colleague! As far as I know, the delegation of the Committee on Regional Policy of our National Assembly has been granted a visit to Denmark, but I do not know at the moment whether or not there has already been a realisation or not, which is a shame – therefore, the President – that it is not yet because Danish experience, despite being able to draw on the Internet, could be taken into account. For, as Denmark is geographically composed, that is, broken down into something, including larger islands and continental parts, it already has natural powers, that it is well-organised regionally, that it has a balanced settlement of the territory and that it is not strictly centralised. Indeed, it is with this law that we should contribute as much as possible to the decentralisation and even settlement of the whole country. It is this law that has a long history, and it is always just before the end that something stops or a barrier falls. Even in the previous government, when the referendum was even voted, but with some other starting points and different views, the basic idea was the same – how to organise a second level of government. We may now be witnessing that implementation in the field is even premature because, as some colleagues have pointed out, Slovenian society’s sub-sectors are already being drawn up for some future regions. So, we are witnessing a quiet introduction of the provinces before the law is passed. Colleagues have already mentioned the police reorganisation. And I would like to draw attention to another fact, the reorganisation of health care. In these days, a great revolution has awakened – in Gorenjska, in Posavje – the idea of the Minister of Health to stop the maternity in Brežice and Kranj. I don't know about the beret, but I'm pretty well aware of the fact that all my younger relatives were born there. Even every day when I listen to the news on the radio, I know that almost every day they report about five births. I don't even think it matters if it's enough or not, it's definitely in a demographically threatened country, in a country that's had, until recently, even negative demographic trends, and now they're close to zero or shyly looking at plus. I think that money in such matters should not be a question, and therefore the birth of our craftsmen should not be a problem. If this is a quiet introduction of the landscapes, even if it is another number, it might still be the idea of the previous government, we were prepared to talk about the number, including other matters, and the current organisation proposed in the law certainly leaves doubts and, as far as we have consulted our colleagues, certainly cannot expect any more support from our party. Indeed, this decentralisation or the second level of administration is apparent and, in fact, the law will allow the government to continue to have too much influence to set up the people who will decide on, essentially, nothing. Rather, legislation gives great advantages to larger municipalities and is again written on the skin of those who already have too much, and this is not to the benefit of coherent regional development, as some municipalities have superstandard services and some break through from day to day. I have listened attentively to the implementation of representatives of our minorities, who also see inconsistencies in the law and even feel threatened by minorities if not because of others, because they are not mentioned anywhere. It surprises me, however, that the mayoral lobby, especially some of the smaller municipalities that have already been deprived, is, of course, because of some instructions or — I don't know, for what reason — they are so happy to support and support a law that will not bring them anything or will allow those who already have too much to afford extra-standard projects. Only one example, which is here in the capital of the Mesar Bridge, is the historical term butcher, and the price is also "mesar" because we know the legend of how the butcher always weighed his hand, so the prices were high. I still have reservations, because it was more expensive than any other elegant building with a very difficult construction operation, so on its way to the Overhead. That bridge is cheaper, but it was built in tougher conditions, and it's nicer and so on. This bridge is still a mess because I don't know how many surfaces to heat, and there are additional costs here. So it's already been designed wrong. And yet this congregation can afford it, while other congregations barely break through from day to day and barely satisfy the needs of the people. It now appears that the country is very stepmotherly to the provinces. While the law was passed for Pomurje, which we now hear has its own virtues, but this is not the subject of today's debate, but we are very macho to Koroška. Whoever's driving down the road from Slovenj Gradc to Celje will know that it is much easier to get there and that there are better connections across Holmec or through other crossings to Austria's Koroška. I was thinking about the plebiscite year when our ancestors made the wrong decision and much of the Slovenian Koroška remained outside the state borders. Now the Slovenians, with our Koroška economics, will be more able to push organizational services across the border to the Austrian side. For Austria knows how important this territory is, and it gives us favourable conditions, and we have not even heard about the province of Koroz. And I certainly understand the revolt and ill will of colleagues coming from this area. And what happened to those colleagues could happen in other areas. Goreńska might also need a special development programme, as companies are collapsing each other this year, and soon there will be no big difference between Koroška and Pomura and Goreńska. Not only is one large trading group collapsing and is at risk of thousands or more jobs, all subcontractors and co-operators are also at risk, so that Gorenska can follow these two provinces. And I'm just wondering what we can expect if, by chance, the Goran Members decide and prepare, in analogy with the two other regions, to put something else in for Gorenjska. And in fact, we would have been voted by the roller again and we would have only had this opportunity to contribute a lot to the state treasury and we get almost nothing back. In the light of all the doubts I have raised, which my colleagues and colleagues have stated, there will be no support for this law on my part.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The word is Anton Urh [[He's not here.]] The word has Milan Gumzar to prepare Vinko Gorenak, then Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Initially, I am kind of glad that we have a new law on regional promotion today, because the old law or the existing law does not produce some smart results. Above all, I am glad that this is some good basis for further discussion or that we will be able to supplement or add to this law in the second and third readings what we have heard today in some way in this Chamber. I myself want to focus on two issues, notably the granting of concessions or powers to development agencies. I agree in a way that the state does. If we are to be able to write in this law that the exclusive agency that will receive the authorization or concession must come from that area or have a seat where it works, so that we do not get what happened to us when we award concessions to the chimney service, that we have concessions at some local level by the state and that these concessionaires are concentrated in only one area. I can see that the Minister is smiling, but it could happen quickly if these existing development agencies were to acquire powers, transfer them to a state-run new and, in fact, from countries, grant concessions and grant these concessions or powers to all agencies based in Ljubljana or possibly even in Kočev, that I will not say that this is exclusively for Ljubljana. As far as the regional development council is concerned, where most mayors will no longer have it, I agree after today's debate that the mayors will not have it, because we have heard here that it is actually the fault of some mayors that the development did not take place as it should, especially those mayors from smaller municipalities. Here, however, the question is immediately raised as to how we will have coherent regional development if we do not cover the entire area. If we do not cover the entire area, it means that it will continue for part of the Slovenian Mountains to "care" – in narration – someone or some mayor who is from Maribor, from Ptuj or perhaps even from Murska Sobota. If we do not write in this regional development council in such a way that it is necessary for each administrative unit, which is composed of several municipalities, to have at least one mayor from that administrative unit, the power will be concentrated only on the number of inhabitants, as the law says. The law on promoting more coherent regional development should also be understood as follows: what is development for whom in general? For someone, it can be a development to get healthy drinking water tomorrow or tomorrow. It can be a development for someone to get a broadband Internet network tomorrow or tomorrow. It can also be a development for someone to get a good road. To all of us in the country, development must be to create new jobs. However, if we want to create new jobs throughout Slovenia, if I may say so, it is necessary to build and provide basic infrastructure for normal operation. In the past it has been shown to us that there have been a number of so-called large industrial enterprises that have become significantly more difficult to transform in a new way than, of course, smaller units. If we want to create smaller units in Slovenia, we must first ensure normal operation. How to attract a company with new jobs to an environment, if you can't even provide a good Internet connection, which is almost absolutely necessary today. Finally, I would like to point out that today, in the National Assembly, we are kind of happy to have a marriage, and on the other hand, we have heard that it would actually be better, that it would not be, and that it would be necessary to establish the provinces first, and I do not know what else. We've been over this lately, and we've found that's not really working. Alone, coming from a smaller environment, if I may say so, I am firmly convinced that some of us in that environment today do not want to be landscapes. Because if these landscapes are so made that once again in a rural world they will have most of those who have the largest population, it means that we will remain out of the uncharted area of "high" and we will not get much from the provinces. However, I would be happy if this regional law would bring a lot of jobs in Podravje in Pomurje, of course, if Maribor were to revive industrially and there would be jobs, if this were to happen on Ptuj and in Murska Sobota, all the others living around us, of course we would not need their own industrial-business zones. If today workers drive 20 or 30 kilometers from their place of residence to their place of employment, there are no problems, especially the environment where we do not have jobs, we need to ensure quality of life; these are good kindergartens, schools of internet connection, road and more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak is gone. Mr. Janko Weber, prepare Joko Godec.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. When we talk about the law on coherent regional development, with the content that we have before us today, it is certainly also important to talk about the law on Pomour, which was one of those crucial moments with which the Government has, in fact, demonstrated in these two years, that it is still responsible for areas that have been extremely affected by the economic and financial crisis and which, in the past, also had exceptional developmental problems. Indeed, as soon as the adoption of the Pomur law was harmonised, an agreement was also adopted to adopt a new law on coherent regional development, which should somehow prevent the adoption of other laws that only concern individual parts of Slovenia that have development problems. Thus, it is extremely important that we really have new solutions in this law that relate to the problems of areas, and it is certainly very important that this law defines the border area as a problem area, because there are also the most developmental problems in the border area. Thus, when we look at the picture of the development problems and all these indicators, we can see that, in fact, the situation in Primorsk, Goriška and in part also in the New Town Region is somehow good, and all the other areas are, of course, exposed to exceptional development problems. Thus, this law gives these areas a real opportunity to use more resources to develop both infrastructure and other economic and other programmes that could occur in these environments. In fact, sectoral policies or all development policies in the country will be obliged to include in their calls criteria on the basis of which such areas will have priority, projects will be evaluated or will receive more points than those coming from areas where there are fewer development problems, and this is, indeed, a mechanism that is somehow set up to reduce development differences in Slovenia. This was, in my opinion, one of the biggest shortcomings in the existing laws on coherent regional development, as, in general, it was discussed how much funding was to be earmarked for these areas, but the allocation mechanism was completely different. Last but not least, even now the current mechanism, when we actually receive funds from so-called development regions, we distribute money across the country, across the development regions, but within the development region we still meet areas with very large development problems. If I touch the South East statistical region and within this Kočevska region, I can find that, for example, Dolenjska, where only Novo Mesto belongs, has significantly smaller development problems than Kočevska has. However, the mechanism for allocating funds today is such that you actually have to negotiate with the New City, whether you will get some money in Kočevje. And this is one of the big schools, if I can say so, where we need to learn to change this mechanism and to really enable money to come, which is designed to reduce differences in development, especially in those areas that also need these development incentives. What I miss in this law is still a relief for investment in these troubled areas. Indeed, the law on the income of legal persons has been missing, if I may say so, from this text, so that I expect this text to be reintroduced in this law in further consideration. If the Ministry of Finance feels that this is not possible, then I expect that, in parallel with this law, we will also adopt a law on the income of legal persons, which will include a mechanism to facilitate investment in development in these areas. This is, in my opinion, the greatest flaw in the current text that we have before us. A similar mechanism is incorporated into this law relating to the subsidisation of workers employed by the company for a new period of two years, if they are employed in the company, the company has the right to enforce exemption from taxes or contributions. So if this mechanism is possible, then I see no particular reason not to get the same opportunity in this law. What we also pointed out in the activities that we had immediately after the adoption of the Pomura Act concerning the development council for White Krajina and Kočevsko, which was established by the President of the Government because it was clear that conditions like those in Pomura, Kočevska and Bela Krajina were similar, and because there was no legal basis for us to approach the systemic solutions immediately and approach the problem as intensively as in Pomura, the development council which had the task of preparing a programme during this period. In fact, this programme will also be the basis for drawing on the resources provided for in the 2011 budget and all the way there by 2016. These resources should also be provided in future budgets to reduce development differences under this programme. So, time has not been lost in this period, if I may say so, has been usefully spent, but still, as I mentioned earlier, we do not have all the mechanisms built up yet, so that in fact all the development incentives can take place as a matter of priority in these areas, where, say, the largest level of unemployment in Slovenia. In addition, the mechanism that this law has for each sector policy to give priority to these areas should also mention that this law goes beyond what is necessary after the development axes have been built, so that we must be aware that part of the problems with this law will be solved. However, the biggest investments relating to infrastructure are also a special task for this government, including this Parliament, which is ahead of us, precisely because we place routes in the space as soon as possible and that the Ministry of Finance, which has the task of setting up resources for these investments, undertakes this task as soon as possible to join these investments. This would also give us the infrastructure connection of these areas to our most important transport cross, which is the European 5th and 10th corridors. These are the receptions that we urgently need in order to really begin to realize – I hope, nonetheless – the wishes of everyone here in Parliament, although some have predicted that they will not support this law. However, perhaps Mr. Zicherl, who spoke about it, did. This law has a mechanism, even if there is a very high rate of unemployment in Škofja Loka, this law will allow it to react immediately in Škofja Loka. I also appeal to all others who may not be quite sure whether this law would be appropriate or not for adoption. So any area in Slovenia will be in trouble, this law will allow it to react immediately. And that is the most important thing in developing problems. So much for these problems and the opportunities offered by this law. I would point out the fact myself; although we are aware that there are differences in development in Slovenia, some decisions have also occurred in this interim period, which did not take account of this situation, and probably not because this law has not yet been adopted. I am thinking of the resources that the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology has shared or has already allocated to so-called centres of excellence. The Ministry of Economy is coordinating, if I may say so, the selection of projects for economic centres. A call for technology centres at the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology also took place. And the drawback of all these calls was that none of these favoured those areas with developmental problems. Indeed, we must also be aware that it is not enough to provide job-savings to maintain some degree of unemployment if we are to solve the problem of development differences for a long time, then we must allow science to reach those areas that have development problems. And what is still unclear in the legislation is that, in fact, all those with researcher status should have, if they are doing their work in an area with development problems, exemptions from taxes, payments of contributions that employers have to pay. This would be one of those measures that would actually allow companies working in these areas to think about development. In fact, the key problem is why there are development differences, that many businesses operating in this area have the means to do some business on the opposite side, and very few have the resources to invest in new technologies to invest in new staff. If we look at how many companies from these areas are scholarshiping staff, we find that we can practically count them on our fingers — in Kočevska, for example. And this is one of those indicators that will also need to change the mechanism that is supposed to allow the employment of highly educated personnel or even, as I have said, those who have researcher status to work on more favourable terms in companies emerging from areas with developmental problems. If this mechanism is not available, in fact all measures will be temporary, short-term. However, if we put this mechanism in place in the long term, I am sure that knowledge is the one that will eliminate developmental differences and will, I hope to say, really bring us to the very top of the developed countries, especially because we would no longer have as severe development differences as we have now in Slovenia. Thus, this law is one of the important steps to be taken, and of course all these mechanisms need to be further cleaned and prepared to make these measures, of course, even more effective than possible and possible today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u93	Thank you very much. DeSUS spent his time in the debate, so he has the word of Dr. Pavel Gantar. Get Alice Jeraj ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will, of course, support the bill in this first reading. I think it brings some fresh mechanisms that will be able to stimulate regional development. I believe that more than the existing mechanisms, I hope, of course, that certain matters will be clarified as regards the use of these mechanisms at this time in the second reading and that the law will then be so much better. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to three things that I think are good to note, especially because my thinking is in the opposite direction of most, as I have heard today both in the opposition and in the coalition, if I may say so. The first question is the absence of landscapes. Here I must say that in the previous mandate, with the help of the opposition, we have also made constitutional changes, written down the possibility of establishing provinces in the constitution and the possibility of the opposition participating in the previous term has ceased. Unfortunately, in the preparation of the law, the Minister, who was very cooperative at the time, at least I could have been very cooperative with him, Minister Žagar, had political limits over which he could not, and therefore, of course, came with the law, the territorial organisation of the provinces, which was completely unacceptable. What it has brought or what has occurred in several versions cannot be accepted professionally because it goes directly towards the fundamental rights and axioms of social territorial organisations. You cannot have a province from Lithium to Domžal, but at the same time, I will say, the centre of these provinces is actually outside the provinces, and this is Ljubljana, where jobs tend and so on and so on. The province is, of course, a social territorial relationship between the economy, housing, jobs, services, services and so on. And the more technology develops, the more traffic, the larger the landscapes. In the 1970s, it was somehow said that the lower threshold of the province, which still allows the rational and full development of the provincial functions, is 150 thousand people. Today, when we have motorways, when we have Internet and so on, this level is, of course, much higher and of course, not lower. It is clear from this that it is pointless to talk about more than tens, twelves, fourteen provinces, especially if territorially they are mischaracterized. Previously, it was said that the number of provinces might not matter. Of course, it is important, given the functions they perform and the thresholds at which they can perform their functions most rationally and comprehensively. Of course, the territorial definition of the province, the definition, is also important, so of course we could not come together. And I do not believe, though it would be good if we could or could come together in this mandate, because I do not see such will in the opposition at that time as it was in the opposition in the previous term. This is a fact that if you are willing to say that we are ready to talk about the landscapes in a way that achieves the optimal number of landscapes and properly organised in accordance with certain principles and requirements resulting from this, we can immediately start talking. I'm sure the minister will be able to speak immediately. Thus, from this point of view, this matter is clear, and we regret that some of the will expressed in the previous term has turned to its opposite. As far as regional development is concerned, I must also point out here, against the flow that the rate of development in Slovenia or any country will never be equal between individual territorial units in the country. Unless the development stops. If we have the same level of development in all parts of Slovenia, this will mean that development is no longer. In all its history, especially in the modern history of modern capitalism, as we know it today, developments occur through the transfer of territorial inequalities. Over and over again, an area, even in a global sense, was developing faster, another was lagging behind in some developmental arc, and some area came to a zenith, started to fall, and some area developed and so on. That's how Dolenjska developed. The development of Dolenjska is not envisaged anywhere in this sense as it was. I don't know any plan that would have been made in 1990 or earlier if you said it would be Dolenjska this and that. And these development bows are very important because they dynamite the entire economy. What the state has to do with its intervention is to prevent the differences that are becoming too large and blocking this developmental shift, this shift of development potentials and developmental locus and dynamics. Development is always dynamic, even by territorial units. It is therefore good to ensure to people that they have the same quality of life approximately or as much as possible, especially in basic services, services and so on, but we must be aware that we have to allow this possibility of inequality once here, once, right now, from the point of view, we could say, dynamics of development. Secondly, because it has been said – and what worries me, because this is the dominant thought of us, not just in this mandate, all the time – that development will be more equal, we will disperse resources as much as possible. The longer we dissipate the resources, the more development will be the same. Formerly a colleague of Marinic's, now not here, talked about border regions that are less developed. Paradoxically! The least developed are those border regions facing a strong iron undertaking on the other hand. So, Prekmurje and so on. While empirical data on the Western border indicate that this is not true. What needs to be said is that, not only do I think, in the opinion of many spatial sociologists, geographers and others, the lack of funds is the main reason for the absence of development in certain areas, but the lack of medium-sized cities. Medium-sized strong development centres generating development at the centre and at the same time outwards to an area in which they are affected. There's a shortage. We see the lack of such medium-sized development centres everywhere that my colleague Marinic spoke about earlier. Weak cities in Slovenia – not only Maribor and Ljubljana – could therefore be said to be weak cities in Slovenia also mean development problems, not only for cities, but mainly for influential areas, largely affected areas of these cities themselves. From this point of view, I cannot accept the idea that now, according to this criterion, we should look out for centres of excellence and say that, given regional development, we must share this money for centres of excellence somewhere else, too, according to the principle of regional development. Centers of excellence are centres of excellence and they must be the best. By the way, some centres of excellence have their own committees or partners throughout Slovenia, including from underdeveloped areas. This way we will not help these regions, if we do this, we will destroy this idea of centres of excellence and we will have nothing. The third thing I'd like to point out is where to warn. My friend Friday just said that by abolishing police administrations, we are already anticipating a future regional division. Of course that's not true. The ABC's regional theory mainly includes the fact that they say: you have generally, the most global two types of regionalisations, one is that the country, you might say, divide the territory of a country according to how it can most functionally, economically, most rationally perform a certain function. This is, for example, the function of police, health care, for example, hospitals, which is already – some public services. And these so-called functional regions are divided by size, depending on the nature of the function and how it can be used economically and rationally and implemented. And this has nothing to do with regionalisation as the formation of landscapes from below. These borders may sometimes overlap, which is recommended, but not necessarily regionalisation from below, linking local communities to the upper-local unit of the province, of course, has nothing to do with this. And I would say the following: I will end with the establishment of regions: we regions, we have provinces. We have them, we just don't know they're working and we haven't given them an appropriate institutional framework. On my computer, I have the latest studies showing exactly the intertwine of territorial relationships between jobs, housing, everything I've talked about before, at the super-local level. And that's all we have to do is frame it into marriage, make a little adjustment because of some inconsistencies, and we'd have the provinces. They would be captured by people like us who are truly invisible without us admitting them or admitting them. If we could do this, if it were this will, we could do it very quickly. And if we gave up the political headlines and flags that we or you had, we could do it even faster. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the word to prepare Villa Trofenik, followed by Jože Tanko. Here you go, Mrs. Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. I will not support the marriage, although it does bring some improvements, but we keep hearing that there are problems because there are no provinces, and I say that this would be the right answer. I will also comment on something from what the President of the National Assembly has said. We adopt intervention laws for each province individually, I have said several times that as close to the provinces as we were in the previous term, we have not been, and it is a shame that the matter stopped when it was practically brought to the end when we even decided at the referendum and so on. I could agree with the President of the National Assembly that we are not cooperative. We can't be! We would support the landscape project if we brought it to the National Assembly. This government has not done so for two years, even though it had in its plan to introduce and prepare a land project programme. We would be very cooperative if such a proposal were not, and do not throw up on the opposition of something that you have not done, that you are ruling and that you are obliged to prepare. Every other law that we deal with occurs somewhere that we cannot realize or do this because we do not yet have a province. And instead of starting to solve things at the beginning, we really are preparing the landscapes, which would then mean for many areas easier and better both funding and organisation than implementation. And to say that all the landscapes will never be equally developed. Of course they won't! But if the differences are growing, and if each year we deal with them and determine which regions are very developed, which are less, then we do nothing or adopt a law to promote coherent regional development, instead of doing what really means change, so the landscapes, then we have done nothing. And just talking about it and figuring out what it is and what the situation isn't, it's really bad. Above all, it is that the landscapes are not evenly developed, very unfair to people, to citizens and citizens living in a less developed province of Koroška, or to others, where they then deal with much greater unemployment, poorer living conditions and so on. And people, logically, then move to bigger cities, to the central Slovene region, to Ljubljana, Maribor, to bigger cities. In this way empty rural areas remain, especially young people who go to college, then in these university cities and knowledge does not come back to the province, to a local environment where they could return something with this education, intelligence, with the experience they gain, their landscape or their district. This would create some economic centres, and this would only provide the basic conditions for a less developed province to develop. If each year we are working on the fact that the differences between regions are increasing, something has to be done. In our view, this is not a law to promote coherent regional development, but, as we say, it is a province. And to speak – the president of the National Assembly said that invisible or landscapes already exist, regions. That's right! Then come with this bill to be the statistical regions we have to prepare the proposal and come with this proposal to the National Assembly. [[...]] Not to say we have them anyway. And that in the previous term was not adopted because it was not real because they were non-life. If these statistical regions are so much more viable, let us make such a landscape. Then why don't we do it if it holds what you say? I speak for myself, and I think it's much better to decentralize things than to centralize them, although I honestly don't believe that this government is capable of thinking that way, because, in fact, with every law, you centralize things with every change. This is now happening in the gynecology departments, a whole bunch of things are going to move back to some big centers and this way we're going to impoverish smaller places that may have brought some development into their environment as well. I would expect, and I would also ask the minister or the representative of the ministry, when we will be waiting for the province, if we will, or the proposal that the statistical regions become provinces. Since the problem is not just to establish the landscape, the problem is to put the money that is now centralized to a lower level. With this we had no problems, so we have prepared such legislation, and you obviously have them, because you want to control things from one bag, not leave the decision to the local environment, which knows what is best for that environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word is given by Willy Trophynik [[He's not here.]] There's a word for Jože Tanko. Let's get the mags ready. Gdydarsich or Renata Brunskole. Joze Tank, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As we watched the Government's normative programme, which it adopted at the beginning of its mandate, it was written on 10 December 2009 that a set of provincial legislation would be introduced. I'm afraid that didn't happen. As far as provincial law or reform of the second level of local self-government is concerned, this is one of the key laws, reform laws, by which the powers between the state and local communities would be thoroughly redistributed. There it would be nice, in some normal, legal way, to determine what the provinces, what the provinces are, what the authorities have, and what the authorities have, what tasks, responsibilities and financial frameworks with which the provinces could carry out their tasks. Unfortunately, the government doesn't have that power. She promised the referendum that people would decide how many provinces we needed, three, six or eight, that was said then. When the minister took office, he did it as a primary task. But there is no referendum on this and not the execution of the primary task. What we have before us today is a forgery of the provincial reform, the provincial regime, because it gives authority to authorities on some non-existent legal basis. Here it combines something that does not exist, establishes some developmental worlds in some areas, without any territorial, functional, formal or political interference. Here we're transferring to some kind of creation, to some developmental world a whole kind of jurisdiction. And in this developing world, even those who are obliged to make political decisions on such matters are not included, namely, congregations, congregational saints. How will this development council assign certain tasks to the municipalities if not all mayors are present in this development world?Oh, my God! How will this development council, which is made up of non-elected officials in important work, impose on a local community to provide funds for the implementation of a development project, and this is not at all its project? I don't think such a form of coercion is necessary because it can be done in a substantially different way. This law is also problematic because even if this development council were to be established, it would give the minister a chance to decide how to include these projects in the NRP budgets of the Republic of Slovenia. Thus, regardless of what these development councils would conclude, in the final stage, the Minister, who will give priority, will place the selected project in the NRP and in some other way encourage or hinder it. Here, in some ways, we give the ministers an arbitrary right to veto or otherwise influence the dynamics of the development of this project. I think that's very, very problematic. I also think that there is no need to change the existing law in any way. The existing law is good. In Article 33, it has a provision on how much funding must be provided for coherent regional development. It states that 1.5 % of gross social product and an additional 0.25% for certain specific measures are to be determined each year. So, 1,75 % of gross social product every year. This means that the state budget should provide between €500 million and €600 million for coherent regional development this year. That's what the law provides. Now, what does the state budget that should implement this provision of the law provide? The state budget in some explicit way does not cover any of this. It neither defines what these projects are for coherent regional development nor where they are nor who they are. There are no such funds in the state budget. And the key problem with this current law is that no money is spent on it in the state budget. Nothing. With the new law, you'll probably spend some other amount of money, but it'll be at least three times as low as the ones you're supposed to provide now. Another important thing is that I find this law unacceptable. This law, in view of the composition of these development councils, which the mayors will represent, will provide legal funding for regional centres for the existing development centres in such imaginary provinces. For the political power of the mayor of the largest municipality and the economic potential of the largest municipality will be such as to ensure the legal use of money for those regional centres that are already the most capitalised in a given area. None of this will be intended for coherent regional development. None of this will be gained within the imaginary region of the peripheral congregation. None of that. I do not think that that is why the association of those great congregations is against this law. There is no objection, as all the money that should otherwise be intended for compensatory action by those areas that are handicapped, which have restrictions such and otherwise, will end up in large urban centres. This is a law that will only speed up this rural exodus. That's all that's going to happen with this law, because we will and because you will ensure that regional centres are further stimulated. The periphery of this marriage will have absolutely nothing. There was also a lot of talk about the placement of various projects in space and the placement of projects in legislation. A variety of projects would not have been carried out in this mandate if they had not been placed within the previous mandate, either in the premises or in the field legislation. The renewal of the Grossuplje–Ortnek railway line would also not have happened if it had not been registered in the Railway Guarantee Act in 2006 and if a year later it had not been initiated by the renewal of the railway. I would like to know what will be the continuation of this mandate from Ortnek to Kočev. I want to know how much money there's going to be, what's going to be the dynamics on this project. I'd be happy if you could guarantee that. I would be even more pleased if this blind track at the end of Kočev could be connected to another area, such as Chernobyl. In the spatial development strategy, which was adopted another mandate before that, we wrote that this is one of the sections that needs to be linked and linked to another railway corridor. I am very interested in what is happening in this area. Are these commitments coming true or not? Are funds provided or not? Will the continuation after this year, when this project is completed, say, at the beginning of the next post with realization, with the reconstruction to Kočev or not? With regard to traffic sections, if we take this famous section of Škofljica, the fundamental problem is that it is not possible to put these matters where it is most rational for such or other reasons, especially because of lobbying, especially the transport lobby. All possible excuses are being sought. All possible revaluations and evaluations of various measures related to Natura 2000 or also being revalued to agricultural land that are at once ten times more expensive than it would have been, are being carried out in such a way that the most optimal project is not rational. There's a lot of problems that need to be solved if we're going to settle this. Above all, decision-making on local, regional problems needs to be made at the level to which it belongs. It is said that formally established regions with formal authorities, with formal competences. They will then continue to establish various sacred and advisory bodies. I am sure that people at this level will be able to assess significantly better the priorities of an area than any minister in this or any other government. No one, if a decision is made in the province, will deal with which year he will reassign it in order to provide it elsewhere, with some spending. This will not happen, but it will be then and for the purpose that is foreseen. However, I am afraid that with these machinations, I can say that it is mainly working that the use of European funds will come into the time frame and then, with short-term calls, with special adjusted restrictions, will share resources as they are shared for the Stožice project. It's probably in all of these clutches. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Gnydarsich [[He's not here.]] The word is Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good-bye! I support the proposal for a law that we are considering today, and there are certainly more reasons for that, and one of the fundamental reasons is already set out in the introduction to this law. It clearly states that despite the fact that in recent years we have devoted a number of debates and attempts to resolve regional differences, i.e. consistent regional development, we unfortunately see, despite the fact that the social gross product in Slovenia in general is growing, that growth is significantly increased in the more developed regions. And given that in the years following the independence of this issue, we have set out a series of discussions where we have regulated institutional frameworks on one side, we see that the institutional framework for regulating these issues is also improving under this proposal, but we cannot, of course, go beyond the fact that what has been the weaknesses of the less effective measures of this regional policy so far, we can see, among the important reasons, that many times the inefficiency of more coherent regional development has been linked to the domination of local development interests over wider regional ones. I therefore assess that there are two fundamental reasons: the first is that, many times, the fragmentation of municipalities into increasingly smaller municipalities certainly does not bring what we want, because in this way we are losing financial, human resources and any other potential, because we are not reaching the critical mass needed to create regional initiatives. At the same time, for example, in the framework of institutional frameworks, we have not recognised that coalition partnerships must be formed at all levels not only within the framework of the representatives of the municipalities, but also by other actors who can play an important role. Here I see a very important shift in the proposal of this law, where three-partite partners are involved in the development world of the regions, i.e. local community representatives, the mayors on the one hand, representatives of the economy and civil society, who will be able to overcome this weakness; so that there will not be a narrow local interest, but that projects of wider importance will be discussed in this development world. Of course, I do not think this law is sufficient to eliminate or reduce the backlogs or developmental differences of individual regions on the basis of this law, so I expect that efforts will be made in sectoral measures in specific areas to support such projects, which will significantly reduce this difference. I also support decisions that particular attention should be given to certain specific areas. Here are mainly two sets of content; one is defined where additional temporary development support measures are provided for the border problem area and the other for the problem area with increased unemployment. As a quality of this law, I can consider that we can also see the under-laws following this law. Here I would focus on another problem area, i.e. areas with increased unemployment, which will be identified at the level of administrative units. So we will see unemployment and the deterioration of the economic situation at the level of administrative units, and of course then, in the third paragraph of this Article, where we describe it, we are talking about that the problems of the high unemployment areas will be treated as narrow areas of several municipalities, for which there will be a condition of 200,000 people. Here I would like to point out that these two criteria may be exclusive, especially for those areas which will be subject to administrative units, for example, to a larger municipality where this threshold of 17 per cent could be lost and such a suburban area would not be treated as a specific area that would need such additional treatment. It therefore seems to me that, through this aspect, these details need to be highlighted, because it would be very wrong to get a sense through these development programmes that development projects of the regional centres can be concentrated through the composition of the development regions. In this case, the differences in the future could be further increased. Here we will mention only two weaknesses that we observe in the suburban congregations. For example, less support for a public passenger transport project, as more and more burdens are being passed on to municipalities and the existence of school branches, because any such lower support means evicting or moving people from these areas, which cannot be the aim of creating more coherent regional development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr. President, Mr. Minister with a colleague, colleagues and colleagues! Today, there was a lot of interesting, even a lot of things that are almost hard to listen to, especially if it goes, as someone said before, for a fake. But I would say that today, quite a few conjectures have been made. These were not facts, a few such matters, almost already plausible to the minister about where they came from and so forth. Anyway, I'm not talking about it. So I was surprised by the debate of some of my colleagues, but we are in the temple of democracy and have every right to express our views, our views. I will support the law on the promotion of coherent regional development at first reading, but I am convinced that there will certainly be a number of amendments to this law, some additions that we will be able to reach a law that is appropriate and appropriate. And some of the things that some colleagues have already pointed out are likely to require further additions, further reflections and corrections. In this regard, I would also like to say quite a few things myself, because much has already been said about what is going on. This is about the fact that in many debates, even when we are talking about other areas, we are saying that we will resolve this by amending the law on coherent regional development. Many times this has been said, but it doesn't matter where someone sits, which chair here in Parliament. Many times this has been said. It is also a fact that there will be a need to amend and supplement the law on the financing of municipalities, because we are now talking about coherent regional development and this will also be necessary in connection with this development. However, in connection with this law, if I look at some, I think there have been quite a few discussions about this; there are still some questions, including in connection with the Community of Slovene municipalities. Earlier it was said that the Community of Municipalities has been eliminated, etc., the Association of Municipalities, Mr Minister has made it clear, even as a member of the Community of Municipalities of Slovenia, that I myself had the opportunity to read their opinion, even some comments have been made. From the area where I come from, there have also been some questions, or dilemmas and doubts, within the framework of the White Country and Kočevsko Development Council Group, or in relation to legal inadequacy. For example, whether it is sufficiently clearly defined in the law – and here there will probably need to be additions – what is local, what is regional and what is national project or, when one of the projects comes to such definition, classifications. Well, it's one of the things. Mr Weber earlier, I think very well, presented that this is an individual border issue of areas and many times, and most of the time it is very limited: so when we are talking about Pomurje, so we are talking about Koroška, so we are talking about Illyrian Bistrica, also when we are talking about Soča on one side, as well as when we are talking about Bela krajina and Kočevski. All of these areas, in history both Yugoslavia and in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, even in the case of independence – if possible, if I can focus on the area where I come from, the White Krajina – had great significance, for example, today at the Schengen border, but – what does this area have? Therefore, quality transport connections and any of the areas to be mentioned and developmental axes are essential. It is also necessary to rebuild railways, so there is no dilemma in this direction. And I think that the Republic of Slovenia has done little here for these border areas. These border areas were, in many cases, such a safe area, where many also took place in the most difficult times, today, when we would like to ensure this coherent and balanced regional development, but somehow we have forgotten about some of these areas. We have also spent several hours this week in connection with the law of purgatory, and we have also heard some readings about the implementation of this law. However, it is a shame to report something to someone until there is no evidence other than evidence and newspaper articles and press releases. So, as soon as we receive a report from the Ministry of Finance on the implementation of this law, the report by the Ministry or the Ministry of Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, we will probably be able to continue to discuss and decide what the truth is and whether certain indications are. Before that, it's a shame to accuse anyone. As the debate on the provinces and the regional, local level was also identified as a special regional development document. And in connection with this and this planning, we're obviously moving forward. Because some have already said before that the 2005 law on these particular links and the definition had not been defined, so this should be specified. However, there may also be a lack of definition in this law of how a regional development document arises, i.e. the relationship between the local community and the region itself, as some of you have already mentioned in the debate today. As regards the size of municipalities linked to the involvement of local communities and that the Act establishing the development council of the region defines it to enter into force when it is adopted by 60% of the municipalities with the majority of the population in the development region. This may mean that small and small municipalities may be discriminated against in some way, for one of the smaller municipalities in the region, where, say, 20 municipalities will not take a decision on the municipal council and if the definition is to be the same as it is now to be adopted by 60% of the municipal councils with the majority of the population, one might say that it is possible for a municipality to be a municipality from a colleague who had previously very harshly debated and represented the position of one of the parliamentary groups. Sort of. My colleague may not have made that statement here, but, for example, his decision would be completely irrelevant. Perhaps this too should somehow be included and seen, even in connection — earlier said — with the composition of the development world. In this composition, if 40% of the representatives of the municipalities will certainly not be able to be representatives of all municipalities in a region where there are 20 municipalities. Definitely. However, another issue is raised, namely the sub-regional issue within a region, the presence of representatives of municipalities. Here I mean, for example, whether the representative in the south-eastern Slovenia will be the area of Kočevska, or whether he will be the representative of the municipalities of Bela krajina, Suha krajina, Dolenjska. I wanted to show on this case because the area itself is well enough and I know in detail, but I am sure that colleagues from other areas will also have their thoughts and thoughts. Also in relation to the community, this particular dissatisfaction was expressed in relation to the percentage of representatives of municipalities – 40%, 30% of the economy, 30% of the non-governmental sector. Not so long ago, I think ten days ago, I was talking to one of the CEOs of one of the biggest Slovenian companies and he said to me: "In politics, there are not enough people working in the economy. Not enough so when I listen to debates, I'm pretty disappointed." This is what this gentleman has said to me, but it is not from Dolenjska, that it is not possible for those words to fly to any of these two Downland large companies. He said he was pretty disappointed. Indeed, some of the Members in some of the debates hardly know what they are talking about. And he was speaking to me right now in connection with the development of the regions. But on the other hand, if we look at the representatives of the municipalities, I am also a representative, it is possible that there should be more. Personally, I think it is right that representatives of local communities have 40%, certainly, because on the other hand, it is always obvious to mayors, municipal councils, that they are not working on development. On the other hand, I am absolutely in favour of the position: 30% of the economy, 30% of the non-governmental sector. Whether this share in the interests of the representatives of the municipalities will increase slightly to 50% of the municipalities and then to a smaller share of the economy and the non-governmental sector – perhaps even in this direction, the debate will continue. In practice, however, I am in favour of the view that the individual sub-regions from which the municipalities come must be adequately represented. Here it will certainly not be decided, because perhaps one of such shortcomings is that many times it happens that the White Country does not have its own representative in the National Assembly, from where I come from. Because the Goryans, the Kolpa River, the Schengen border are some kind of barrier. Everyone says: it's nice for you, it's nice for you, but it's obvious that we're not doing enough in Parliament here. As a result, it is important to resolve areas with high unemployment. Previously, I was just talking about how important it is to stop development when it comes to bad traffic connections. Here I am referring to the development axis of the entire region of the Republic of Slovenia, not only the area from which I come, but also in connection with the development of the economy, crafts and entrepreneurship, if we stop at just one moment of vital importance, even today the meeting would not take place here if there was no electricity. And it happens that some areas, too, I have experienced that there is no money in our area when responsible electricity distributors have been told that there are no such restrictions in the state budget and that there is no money and unfortunately there will be no such reinforcements. This problem was in New Town, in Dolenjska, in the White Land. It was also said that the problem is if there is a snowstorm, because we are not connected to the Kočevsky area, so that we might be able to power ourselves from this side. There's probably something like that in other areas. This is also one of the obstacles to development and in relation to coherent regional development, which is why I am also talking about this. Surely, it is also an important moment that all ministries are in fact – it is not only about everything going to the Minister for Local Self-Government, but also about the important integration of all other ministries, which is also included here. However, when it is necessary, the Government service shall make all appropriate arrangements for local self-government; these are invitations to apply for tenders, irrespective of the specific area, and it shall be determined that this area does not have enough electricity to register with an undertaking which would urgently need it for development. Then, too, as I pointed out earlier and also colleague Weber stressed: with regard to the regions involved in the voting. The vote, when there are 20 congregations, if there is a percentage, is so much and so many municipalities of some sub-region, the other sub-region is so small and then it can happen that the development sub-region is literally lagging behind, no matter what government it is, no matter what the mandate of the National Assembly is. And that's what's been going on for 20 years, and the results are already pretty clear. They do have marble trails somewhere in the cemetery or to every field of asphalt, while elsewhere we face the basic problem of traffic connections. Let it be Koroška or Kočevska and White Krajina. Of course, extreme planning is also important in the holy regions. I myself spoke about this – the third development axis, and Brulc's colleague, as well as other colleagues, is about, say, the water supply, the water supply, and electricity and so on. These are basic issues and I believe that, at the level of the Republic of Slovenia, such development projects should have as strategic development projects areas. The sad thing is that sometimes it is so - I don't know how to say it - someone even said: if the mayor is aggressive enough to approach a minister, then this matter will go into some strategic documents, otherwise not. I believe that the law on coherent regional development should also determine that the holy regions here also have a strategic approach to these matters. In this context, this has also been highlighted to me within the framework of the White Country Development Council Group and, as I mentioned earlier, the equal representation of the areas, Article 11. As in practice, even in relation to a sub-legislative regulation, which states that within six months of the entry into force of the law, the Minister shall issue a regulation on the classification of the development regions according to the degree of development. In connection with this, colleague Weber has already mentioned something. If I focus on the area of south-eastern Slovenia, 20 municipalities are included: Dolenjska, Bela krajina, Kočevska; or Kočevska, Bela krajina, Dolenjska. In this context you could then say: After development you belong to Dolenjsko, you have Krko, you have Revoz, and in fact Bela Krajina or Kočevska are facing the problems of the Schengen border and they are not as developed as it seems to coincide. Therefore, I believe that the sub-regions should be taken into account. There is another dilemma that they have warned me about — public works. In connection with public works, when Slovenia's employment agencies allocated public works funds at the level of the roof office in Slovenia, it happened to look at the region equally roofily. For South-Eastern Slovenia, as I mentioned earlier, this decision on which area is less developed and where public works would also try to find a source of income for unemployed people, at least the current source of employment, has thus been reduced. In the framework of the Pomurje Law, this matter has been largely resolved, but a gap has been created here in relation to other regions. In connection with this law and in connection with this law, I would also like to point out in some way that there would be no such inadequacies and shortcomings that would be at the expense of areas which would then constantly have problems. Perhaps this would also happen on an account, I do not know the developed, possible Posavje, Kršek and so on, but some areas would be constantly – there are also areas that are somewhat less developed. I've noticed that, too. Clearly, however, this is also at the expense of the major cities that have been developed, so small congregations may also be neglected. I would also like to say that I feel obliged to have many hours of work and work done here by the Government's Office for Local Self-Government, including in coordination, including with even greater appointments in relation to coherent regional development. In connection with the public administration, however, I would only warn – previously, the debate was linked to police units – that, to some extent, even in connection with administrative units and other institutions, it would only be necessary to take the subregient moments into account. I could give myself an example of Vinica in the White Krajina, which is at the border with the Republic of Croatia, when people would have to go to the tax administration for any change, say, to Novo Mesto, which means almost 100 kilometers or if it is 60, 70 kilometers. Whether such a matter is appropriate, appropriate — for example, so far it has been much closer. It's like that somewhere else. Also in connection with administrative units, social work centres and other institutions, including employment institutions and units, to not only look at rationality, but also to see that we are truly ensuring a balanced and coherent regional development; thus ensuring a sufficiently quality life for employees and for the inhabitants of individual areas. Because if someone should go again, either to Novo Mesto or to someone in Celje or Maribor, then I am not sure if we have really worked in the sense and direction of coherent and even regional development. There are still many such matters in the areas, according to the individual departments to be addressed. However, I believe that the first reading is a necessary and important step already taken in relation to the law on coherent regional development. I am confident that further coordination and consideration of certain comments will then lead to the adoption of this law and greater satisfaction, regardless of whether we are members of the coalition or opposition. So, at first reading, I'm going to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The notified Members and Members have concluded their debate. Mr. Secretary, please. Dr. Henrik Gjerkes, Minister responsible for Regional Development and Local Self-Government. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u104	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! My concluding comment or observation on this rich debate, which took place in the context of the debate on the law on promoting coherent regional development. Therefore, those comments and criticisms relating to the bill itself are substantively such that, when appropriate, we will harmonise, in particular, the various inconsistencies, perhaps also some solutions that will prove more appropriate, both in the parliamentary groups and with representative associations and other stakeholders concerned by this law and concern us all. I am pleased, however, that there were no substantive substantive comments in the part where the debates were most critical. If I sum up comments in terms of reducing the landscapes as a complementary process or a situation in a more coherent regional development, I fully agree. However, I also explained the reasons why the Government decided to move faster or to approach the development problems of Slovenia before the introduction of the provinces. It turned out that the system law did not have its answers, especially during the crisis, and it did not seem reasonable for us to wait for a political consensus on the territorial division of Slovenia, to start solving development problems earlier. I must say that the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development will not solve all the development problems of Slovenia. Much will depend on sectoral measures, much will depend on implementation itself, as you have found. In our opinion, it will discover those still hidden potentials in Slovenia that could quickly add a stone in this mosaic of faster recovery and recovery from the crisis. Comments that intervention laws are a more appropriate form seem to me contrary to the desire for decentralisation. In fact, it is the intervention laws that highlight the centralisation of the country and action at state level to address the development problems of different areas in Slovenia. If we choose this strategy, so that we can solve the development of regions within the meaning of intervention laws, then we do not need regional policies at all. There is also a clear indication that the introduction of the landscapes is silent, that this observation has been supported by police action to chart the number of regions and also by scientific research, which is an important professional contribution to enriching the foundations in the area of regionalisation, is not justified. I began to think about this only today, when I heard these findings, namely, these 12 statistical regions, which are mentioned as sharing at the NUTS-3 level, are the result of the implementation of the European cohesion policy. If Eurostat finds that it would be better to change the meaning of statistical regions in this area, number, size, we will consult, but this still does not mean any territorial division of Slovenia. I would like to return to the development council once again, because this is one of those key features of the law, which in some way sees some centralisation or politicisation, particularly the politicisation of the implementation of regional policy in the regions. It is a matter of admitting that mayors carry out responsible and extensive work in local communities. On the one hand, they must lead the basic mission of the congregation, to provide prosperity to citizens and thus to citizens and, on the other hand, to take care of development. Above all, in smaller municipalities where there is no critical mass where human and financial resources are lacking, this development can be stopped quickly. Therefore, in our view, these development resources need to be linked – I emphasise – not combined, because this is a constitutional category, but linked. They are best connected in regional development partnerships or in regions. It's an interesting merger to ensure development. It is not just infrastructure investments, because infrastructure investments, as we have seen in Pomour, do not yet provide development, must also be followed by measures in the field of economy and education. The dilemma is whether this system law will fulfill the expectations of the Korosts or all of us. I think this is a big step, not just one, but three in the area of regional policy. As I mentioned at the outset, regional policy will thus receive new instruments in this way, which can, in particular, in areas that are lagging behind in development for years, accelerate this development and, therefore, we hope, the development of the whole of Slovenia. However, the new paradigm is aimed at the whole of Slovenia. So we think that the undiscovered development potentials are not only in these less developed areas, but also in those areas that are now more developed, and this way progresses. Dr Gantar found out that if there is no difference in regions, then there is no consistent regional development, unless this development is null and void. However, there must not be such discrimination that these differences hinder the development of the whole country. This was also found at the second workshop by OECD representatives carrying out a territorial review of Slovenia. This territorial review of Slovenia is one of the professional bases and guidelines for this bill. The whole Slovenian area, especially because of the large differences in border areas – and we are talking not only about the problem of different or smaller development, but also about the strategic problem – is that if there are no suitable conditions for living, for the functioning of businesses, the inhabitants of these border areas can either start – or empty, so we are talking about negative demographic trends, or worse, gravity to centres in other countries. In short, it is not only the development goals that we want to achieve with this bill, but also the strategic objectives. The issue of the inefficiency of State intervention aid was also raised. Of course, if I mention the case of Pomurje. There's been a lot of money going on in Pomurje in recent years. We saw the result this year at the beginning of the year with intervention law, and the picture changed significantly. Indeed, again or in advance, we have approached one of the concepts that he also had within the law, that is to say, the partnership dialogue and the sharing of responsibilities and also of rights. As soon as the region was affected, it was given the task of preparing a programme. Because she knows the most, the area, the region knows the most what she needs, what she has and how to achieve it. Also Pokolpje, development partnership. We are in these preliminary procedures, which have been necessary because we have found that all the conditions for the State to intervene due to high unemployment have already come into play within the framework of the Development Council to draw up a programme that will be the basis for an agreement on the development of the regions. So, this is the area, it says that time has not been lost, but it is already ready for this, it is already a step forward, that this ground for starting an agreement on regional arrangements is more or less ready, and we will also consider it at a meeting of the Development Council in the second week. I would also like to explain this dynamic mechanism for detecting high unemployment why the area of action is not the same as the area of detection of unemployment. The regulation is already referring to the allocation of regional incentives that, if two months in a row in an administrative unit, unemployment is higher than 17%, then specific measures are taken. However, not only for that administrative unit, but for the area of action. This area of action may be either the whole region or the regional development partnership or some other defined area. The issue is that we need to have a critical mass in action, and in addition, the relationship in one administrative unit may not already be necessary for migration to show the true picture of the wider area around this administrative unit. In this way, we ensure that these measures can achieve their objectives. Now, whether this critical mass is twenty thousand inhabitants or not, it is the matter of a sub-law and we will be able to discuss it. In short, if I conclude on certain possible or potential inconsistencies that you have pointed out, we will, of course, discuss them together in a further procedure, so that, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Government, this important law can overcome these concerns that we have heard today. But there is no way we can blame the failure to establish the landscapes on such a developmental law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u105	Thank you very much. I see that there is still an interest in the debate, after paragraph 71, I give the time to report. Please, anyone who wants to discuss it, please sign up. Thank you very much. Everyone has time for a five-minute debate. Mr. Ivan Grill, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Look, I feel just as many of my predecessors do that this law will certainly not achieve those goals that we all want. Unfortunately, we're going to lose a lot of time to figure this out in a year or two or even three. I'm also skeptical of the text itself, because even in the coalition itself, there are quite a few concerns, some bad solutions that will have to be corrected. I'm afraid that in such a marriage it's almost impossible to fix, because somewhere you might fix something, on the other hand it's going to go bad. I do not think that any major coherent regional development with such a law can be achieved. That's basically, look, Mr. Secretary, a waste of your time and your associates. You could have much more optimism if you were to take up this function under your predecessor’s regional or provincial laws. For, look at this coalition, in its plan at that time, had an obligation to introduce this regional legislation into the procedure in a relatively short time. I even believed that in the previous term the whole package of laws was more or less, I can say, quite professionally prepared, even adopted. Unfortunately, that political majority was not enough, especially when deciding on the number of provinces. But there was much or a large part of the work, of course, done and, of course, there should also be continued. Because only regions that have a lot of powers, which are still under this law, if adopted, remain in state hands or in ministries, cannot guarantee some of the development potential that each region, of course, has. There will still be too many political decisions, "political dilemmas", not least the competence of individual ministers or even governments on certain actions or activities of a particular region. Here, too, at least one of the speakers noted that this law allows for greater unemployment to be detected in an area in the country, and some measures can be taken. Here, we can do this. But in what way? When the matter is detected when it comes to analysing whether it will be sufficiently political will, I think it will take so long that a wide range of matters will change so much that the question is whether an intervention can solve it at all. I don't think such fire intervention leads here to the very goal. So I certainly won't support this marriage, not to say it's so bad, but like I said, it's a waste of time. It would be better than I said to go to provincial legislation and, of course, there are these things that really systematically and balancedly try to solve so that each region can be on its own. One of the predecessors noted that highways, now that we have them in Slovenia, are essentially changing some criteria about the number of regions or the size of regions. I'm afraid the highway can't change that. It is true that we can be from one end of Slovenia to the other in an hour and a half or two hours, but those geographically rounded wholes are still different and the highway does not change that. This was mentioned in Dolenjska. I am alone with Dolenjska and I am glad that some here very much expose her as one of the more developed regions. It's based on statistical indicators, but let's see how many areas in Dolenjska have no water, no sewerage, no broadband network, no university. If any region needs a university, Dolenjska needs it precisely because of such a strong economy. And we still don't have that. If we had regions, I am sure that all these differences would be substantially faster and more balanced, especially in terms of the priorities that we are detecting ourselves. So this effort, I think somehow it will show that it was in vain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Grill. Mr. Milan Čadež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings, colleague and colleague! Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues! When I reviewed the existing proposal for a law on the promotion of coherent development and because I am well aware of the proposal that our party has already tabled in this mandate, as well as the proposal for a short-term short term, I have seen great differences. I can say that Slovenia itself, with its beautiful local environment, is somehow the basis for working on a fair regional development. I come from the region of the bishops, Poljanska, Sevška dolina, Poljanska do Žirov, where life differs from the eastern part of Slovenia. If we look at the way we work except for the lower part, how farmers fight to process their surfaces up to 1000 meters high, and towards the eastern part of Slovenia where the plain is, and when we have this week's debate here, who of the farmers will lead the business books. We must be aware that it is right in the diocese area, which is known to have one of the lowest unemployment rates, the highest birth rate, but that this is what holds the host on his land and that not everything is in money, but much or all is on the love of his land, and this must be respected. And if not all conditions, much has to be done on people. People are the ones who, I can say, hold Slovenia as such. I remember well when we had a debate on one of the committees from economic zones. Mr Minister has even stated that we have too many areas for the economy. That's because they're not all used up. I can say that in the central, western part, everything has been used and I do not imagine that an entrepreneur who would not get a surface in his local environment would go to the other end of Slovenia. Even waste management, we have a lot of debates, how many waste management centres, two million Slovenians, how many centres we need. Here there is no need for any mathematics, only a careful consideration of how forward and how much time we will have in the National Assembly in one basket for waste glass bottle, plastic glasses and paper. I don't think there's gonna be a step forward. I must also touch on the proposal to abolish maternity and police administrations, which leads to centralisation and not decentralisation, and I can say that as a Member coming from a non-urban environment, that is also what worries me. Finally, I cannot help but say that this year we have taken an intervention measure on Pomour. This week we had an urgent session to address the suspicion of corruption in the way the invitation to tender was launched. And, of course, I can't go beyond the fact that the government has called the development world a nomadic and white-screened world. I ask myself: Is this regional development or do you have to be on the right political side? Finally, I would like to point out that there is a need for competences, money and staff to be decentralised for coherent regional development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor. Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Čadež, I would much rather not be in the party of Social Democrats, but that economic growth in Kočev would be one of the most developed in Slovenia. I want to say that it is not up to me whether I am a member of the Social Democrats and a ruling party or whether it is about solving the problems in Kočevska, which actually has the highest level of unemployment in Slovenia. Regardless of the political colour, the government has decided to help these areas, these regions. The unemployment rate is today a proposal in this law and will also apply to your area if you fall into such a situation. So the same conditions will be for you if you get into trouble. So I advise you to support this marriage rather than support it, as you said. Even though it is good that we have not established the provinces in all of your discussions on the provinces, respected colleagues from the SDS. What would be the situation in which the provinces would be in this economic and financial crisis? Would the provinces be able to provide so much assistance to the economy? Could the provinces be able to subsidise working hours, full-time work in those companies where we did not have enough orders to keep jobs? Would the provinces be able to provide funds to subsidize those waiting for work at home?We could have done all this because the country obviously had enough power and will to do so. We couldn't do that in the provinces. One Pomurje, there is no way that we could get such support if we had our own province as it did because we decided at the level of the country to help this area. And let's keep that in front of our eyes. Mr. Grill spoke earlier about the New City. I strongly doubt that the Lower Region would devote as much money to Revos as Revos got from the state budget, by no means. We would be very serious talking about why companies in Kočevska would not get this money before Revoz. And you'd probably wonder in the White Country why their company wouldn't get that money, why Revoz. This is this debate that would then move to the provinces. And it's not all gold and honey, if it's called a country, far from it. Once again, we are very lucky that we have not established the landscapes and that we have not made another mistake that would make our situation worse in the economic and financial crisis. Let me just remind you that we have taken on major problems in solving the economic crisis because you have increased wages in the public sector. You've commissioned the state to build highways. You've established vineyards that don't cover these obligations. You burdened the country when it had the biggest economic growth, with debt. Today, when there is no economic growth, we cannot owe ourselves or if we quickly break that limit, which is somehow commanded within the euro area, and that is why we also accept budgets that bring us back to a stable monetary policy and meet the Maastricht criteria. I would also like to explain and complement Mr Tank in his debate. In fact, now that the Grossuplje-Kočev railway line is being intensively built, everyone is attaching medals, as everyone has made a huge contribution to this, such as Tanko, in the daily newspaper we read about the Mayor of Great Lašč, who is practically appearing daily in the way he now deserves this route. I just want to remind myself that for at least a year I listened to the findings in the National Assembly, as well as in Kočev by the SDS, czech, Weber did not support the amendment for the Grosuplje-Kočev railway line and the line will not be built. The government's response and my reply back then in Parliament was that I did not support the amendment because the funds were provided and the amendment was unnecessary. That is why I reiterate this fact once again today and thank the coalition for supporting me in coalition coordination to secure money for this route. That's the fact that we're already quoting something and we're tying medals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a law to promote coherent regional development. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide on Monday 20 December 2010 in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item — First draft of the Banking Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Mr Jozet Tank. With regard to the proposal for a law, the same parliamentary group requested the National Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners to Mr Zvonko Černač.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u112	Dear colleague, dear colleagues, the rest are present! We have once talked about this and we have appealed to the President of the National Assembly to plan a little more responsible time. This last debate, which I have heard at the door, speaks of the fact that for some it is not the most appropriate time on Friday afternoon to have a reasoned, qualified and, above all, a reasonable discussion. This point, which we will discuss below, is one that we would be right to discuss when voting is also envisaged, because only when voting is envisaged will there be a slightly greater presence of colleagues and colleagues and motivation to discuss matters. So why supplement or amend the Banking Act? We proposed this law mainly based on two main objectives. Firstly, to prevent a conflict of interest between members of the management and control bodies of business banks, and in particular the majority state-owned bank. Secondly, in order to reduce the possibility of a conflict of interest between members of the management and control bodies of financial companies operating abroad and in which they have a dominant share of the bank established in the Republic of Slovenia. In the course of the changes, we have come from preventing the conflict of interest that occurs in the management and supervision of banks and which is most pronounced in banks that are directly or indirectly owned by the State. This conflict of interest often leads to decisions that are detrimental to the operation of concrete banks. Therefore, in the case of State banks, they are also harmful to taxpayers. If this conflict of interest is not prevented or is not prevented by effective mechanisms, it may impair the position of the individual bank, increase its exposure to harmful decisions and, as a result, jeopardise the stability of the banking or financial system as a whole. In drafting the law, we have come from a number of documents, as well as an analysis of the situation in the area governed by the law. We also came from the working material prepared by the Working Group of the Basel Committee on Bank Surveillance, entitled The Principles of Corporate Governance. It also provides, inter alia, that conflicts of interest may arise between the bank or its clients and members of the Board of Directors or members of the Supervisory Board and the bank’s leading staff when the bank enters into a business relationship with a legal entity owned by a member of the Board of Directors. With regard to conflicts of interest, when the bank is owned and controlled by the State, a complete administrative separation of ownership and bank supervision functions must be carried out in order to reduce political interference with the supervision of the bank. We are well aware of examples of how this is happening in Slovenia. At the head of the largest state bank, the LDS political cadre has been checked for many years and has even paid a million Euros of prizes. He was succeeded by the LDS candidate at the last state-run elections, which should take over the parliamentary seat in this Parliament instead of the president of this party. The successors of Mr Kramar have not yet collected all the skeletons which, in times of crisis, are rapidly falling out of the cabinets of the largest state bank and have weakened the bank to the point that even a hundred million recapitalisation cannot help it. And this story isn't over yet. New political funding is taking place, as is the case with the stadium in Colossae. For a large majority, we will probably not know any, since the field of non-transparent and bank secrecy has not broken even when the collapse of the global financial system has led to the disclosure of the world's largest private banks, and this has been prevented by us even in banks that are in or mostly state-owned. Another example is Mr Danilo Toplek, a prominent member of the Social Democrats, a long time ago, could be said by the Permanent Director of Taluma, who is the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Bank of Maribor. It is the direct involvement of policy in the operation of the bank and the incorporation rather than the prevention of a conflict of interest in the operation of the bank. There are more similar cases. It is therefore more than obvious that the codes and principles, if not enforced by law, are not respected in this country. Of course, we can see that in Slovenia there are legal and other acts whose respect would regulate or prevent conflicts of interest between members of administrations and supervisory councils. The problem is that these acts are primarily non-binding in nature. And that is why we propose that these rules of the game become legal. It is incomprehensible that this bill is opposed or not supported by the Government. The only argument for doing so can be the ambition of the authorities after maintaining their political influence on banks and servicing their political interests and their political elites and projects. This is a poor journey to the continued stability of the financial and banking system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u113	Thank you very much. For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Matei Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u114	Mr President, Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly present the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a novel of the Banking Act. The main objective of the bill is to prevent conflicts of interest between members of the management and control bodies of business banks, in particular banks owned by a majority of the state, and to reduce the possibility of conflict of interest between members of the management and supervision bodies operating abroad and in which they have the dominant share of the bank established in the Republic of Slovenia. The objectives pursued are reflected in the text of the law in the enforcement of the mandatory application of the Public Company Management Code in banks. Initially, it points to the legal nature of the Code, which is the generally established form of a legal act as an autonomous source of law in the various areas of operation of the associated stakeholders and the characteristic of which is legally not binding in the form of a recommendation. Notwithstanding the non-binding nature of this Code, we find that Banka Slovenije, as a supervisory authority in the banking sector, is still using the Code or resisting it, regardless of the fact that it is not prescribed as a binding legal act. Among other things, it follows from the Decision on the due diligence of the members of the Management Board and the members of the Supervisory Board of Banks and Custodians, in which the content of the Code is already summarised in principle. Furthermore, I must conclude that the proposal for a law establishing the mandatory application of the management code affects only one segment of the area of the financial system, which is the systemic regime of banking. However, it does not affect other areas of the financial system, insurance, the securities market, which puts the banking sector in a somewhat unequal position. It further points to the current regulation of the Company Act, which in Article 70, which applies to all companies, provides for banks to include companies whose securities are traded in an organised market in their business report a statement on the management of the company. The declaration shall be included as a separate section of the business report and shall include, inter alia, information on compliance with the management code. They also voluntarily decide to apply the company management code and add information on access to such a code. In practice, it can be observed that banks other than public limited companies have also opted for accession to the governance code. From the point of view of the formality of the law, we must note that the law lays down the powers of the Bank of Slovenia, which in our view go beyond the possibilities or powers that the Bank of Slovenia could give, since it provides that it must determine by means of a sub-legislative act what is an important business relationship. It should also be noted from a formal point of view that the proposal for a law has not been sent to the European Central Bank for consultation in accordance with our requirements, pardon, with our obligations under the Treaty on European Union. Taking into account that and on the basis of the facts presented, the Government of the proposed law cannot support both systemically and from an implementing point of view. At the same time, when the Government adopted this decision, it also adopted a decision on the basis of which, together with Banka Slovenije, it will consider strengthening the conditions for membership in supervisory boards of business banks with a view to preventing conflicts of interest, but considers that it is not appropriate to enforce this possibility through the legal text, but through existing documents and regulations within the competence of the Bank of Slovenia. I mentioned earlier the decision on the care of members of the board of directors and members of the supervisory board of banks and savings banks. Taking into account all the above, the Government proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision under which a proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will try to present the position of the Solidarity Group in a timely manner for Friday afternoon. Let me first point out that this amendment and the amendment of the Banking Act to apostrophe a problem that is not apostrofied for the first time certainly not the last time, but the real problem with us. It is a problem of preventing conflicts of interest or controlling when it cannot be prevented. In doing so, I think that the applicants come from a legitimate need for this to be resolved as much as possible and actually propose two measures. One suggests that the code of governance of public limited companies should be incorporated into one of the articles of the Banking Act, which, in my judgment, is not the best thing to do, but I will tell you later how this could possibly be done differently. Another ambition is to disclose all the details of various business contacts and contracts, which is very similar to Article 6 proposed by the same applicants in the proposal to amend the Company Act when it came to silent companies. The government's both rejecting it. According to the Group's assessment, this rejection or argumentation of cities is weak. Not the most convincing, or sometimes even a little nonchalant. I'll try to tell you the reasons why we feel that way. The first case is, today the Secretary of State has already spoken about the Government's objections. I'm gonna have to do some things again. The first example is when the Government literally writes that due to the non-binding nature of the Code it seems problematic to combine laws and autonomous legal resources. The fact that something seems problematic to someone is probably not the most firm argument, it should already be set in a different way if it wanted to be an argument, but it is an expression of dissatisfaction. That's not enough to keep it that way. That it is not appropriate to combine autonomous resources and legal provisions, it also notes for the reason that it says that this combination would otherwise be possible if the code followed the law rather than the law of the code. However, I see no particular reason for not allowing codes or other legal sources to appear as an incentive, as an initiative to change things in law. Well, this combination is nothing special to me. I think you should listen to her. The second example, I quote, speaks this rejection opinion of the Government that Banka Slovenije can rely on a code if it is prescribed or not. This seems somewhat arbitrary, first because it can or does not rely on what is written in the Code and secondly because it finds that it can do so whether it is prescribed or not. So this is already such a measure of arbitration that it does not seem appropriate when laws are rejected, even if we consider them not to be the best. The next example is, today, that the proposal, in fact, should probably be a draft, has not been sent to the European Central Bank for consultation. Surely, if the Government so claims, this has probably not been done, but I do not know if it is too late now or if this consultation is too late or if it is still possible to do so, and in this way we will get another assessment of the appropriateness or inappropriateness of the proposed amendments and additions. Another such argument, which is not exactly the most similar to the argument, is – this is said in the last sentence of the government opinion – that the government promises to explore the possibility of tightening the conditions for bank membership in order to avoid conflicts of interest. This promise, in my judgment, means recognition that the intention of the law is not entirely flawed, that it is therefore appropriate, but that it may not be properly formulated and that it does not have the right legal personality to propose a law, which could then be changed. Therefore, it would probably be very good if we heard and could also read the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service or of the professional institutions or experts involved in the further process of adopting these amendments and supplementing them. But in order to hear that, you have to let the law proceed. And we will make it possible with our votes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u118	Well welcomed, Mr President, Madam Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues! According to the proposed law, the main objectives of the bill are to prevent conflicts of interest between members of the management and control bodies of business banks, in particular banks owned by the majority of the state, and to reduce the possibility of conflict of interest between members of the management and supervision bodies operating abroad and in which the majority of the banks established in the Republic of Slovenia have a dominant share. The proposer would pursue these objectives by replacing the provision of the bank's business in accordance with the Public Shareholders Management Code by the members of the bank's management board and the members of the bank's supervisory board, and by requesting disclosure of the bank's information on the business contacts of the members of the supervisory board that the subsidiary had with the bank or the bank. With regard to the proposed solution, it should be noted that the Code is a generally established form of legal act as an autonomous source of law in the various areas of operation of the associated stakeholders and the characteristics of which are legally non-binding in the form of a recommendation. The Code is subject to frequent amendment as the signatories regularly follow the situation in the legal and factual environment of the companies and propose amendments to the Code where appropriate, which is certainly one of the arguments against the incorporation of the Code into the legal framework. What is acceptable at a certain point in the Code can thus be changed to its contradiction tomorrow, which indirectly affects the content of the Law and its application. From this point of view, it seems problematic to combine legal and autonomous laws. It is therefore more appropriate to maintain the practice so far, in accordance with which the Code follows the innovations in legislation and not the other way around. In view of the fact that Banka Slovenije, as supervisory authority in the banking sector, can rely on a code if it is prescribed or not. Among other things, this is based on a decision on the care of the members of the board of directors and members of the supervisory board of banks and savings banks. The decision is already referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1, as regards rules on the conduct of members of the management board and members of the supervisory board of banks and savings offices. The first paragraph of Article 4 of the Decision, which provides for the due diligence of a member of the Management Board, and the second paragraph of Article 4 of the Decision, which provides for the due diligence of a member of the Supervisory Board, shall refer to the professional prudence of the profession in respect of their conduct. However, the Code of Management is a document summarizing professional care standards developed over time in practice in writing. This is also due to the official explanations for amendments to the management code of December 2009, where it is explicitly stated that the management code with this amendment has been structurally modified and transformed into principles or recommendations of good practice and no longer contains binding provisions. The Preamble of the Code of Management provides that in the formulation of this drafters have taken into account Slovenian legislation, EU guidelines and recommendations, the ethical principles of business culture, their internal acts and internationally recognised standards for responsible and quality performance of companies. In view of the above, the Group of Social Democrats agrees with the Government that the reference to standards is also a direct reference to the governance code. Furthermore, the decision in point B of Article 23(3) provides that the Supervisory Board shall assess or report to the Management Board shall also include information on significant inconsistencies in the functioning of the Bank with the applicable legislation, standards and codes and internal acts. With regard to the content of the decision, it should also be noted that the drafters of the decision have followed the management code and that the decision has mainly already summarised its content. With such arrangements, Banka Slovenije, as regulator and supervisor of the banking system, remains autonomous in regulating the care of members of the management board and members of the supervisory board of banks and savings banks, as it does not make reference to the management code as such, but rather to standards. In summarising the latter, it weighs the appropriateness of individual content. However, with the proposed addition to the bill, Banka Slovenije’s independence would be undermined, as the jurisdiction of the regulation of the matter would to a certain extent be transferred to other bodies that specifically design and adopt a management code. For this reason, the Group of Social Democrats will vote against the conclusion that the law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State, rare colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we will also, of course, support the follow-up procedure of this law as proponents. We would also like to allow those who may agree with the concept and the objectives of the proposed law to make certain corrections or compromises they see or propose. The principles and objectives of the proposed law have already been read. So it's a very important upgrade to the existing system. So upgrades to prevent conflicts of interest between those people who are the most important decision makers in banks in Slovenia, in state-owned banks and are also entrepreneurs or have such and different interests towards the same bank. This seems particularly important to us in the fact that we are still two years after the economic and financial crisis. Today, it is virtually impossible to get a loan, let alone a favorable loan. Many entrepreneurs seek such and different links to those responsible both in politics and in banks, of course, to obtain loans, to survive both for their businesses and for employees in these companies. For example, let me just draw your attention to one example of one person who has already been mentioned for this speech, Mr Danilo Toplek. He sits and is the President of the Supervisory Board of the New Credit Bank Maribor and is the President of the Administration or the Director of the largest aluminium company in Slovenia. And is it not correct that the Banking Act also regulates the need to disclose all the data directly and indirectly that such a person may have in two chairs, which are actually in conflict with interests? It is in the company's interest to obtain as much and as much as possible a loan with as little insurance as possible, but the bank is, of course, against the interest that it has a safe investment, a profitable investment or that it gives such a loan to the same company. So and now we have one and the same people in such conflict situations or situations that actually force conflict of interest. And we could be even more rigorous in this bill and we could ban anything and so on, but this is pointless, as I think it is pointless to limit if someone is a successful or also a failed director, so that they can also be a good supervisor elsewhere. However, it is appropriate to disclose and act in such a manner in accordance with the Public Shareholders Management Code. And the law proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party Members does not say anything else. All he says is that this needs to be revealed, that the bank has to disclose all these business contacts and that, to a good extent, abuse of this conflict of interest is also prevented. The Government's excuses and refusals are also the largest or rejection of this proposal by the largest coalition party, as we have heard, in some way reminds me of the debate on the Company Act, where we have talked about silent companies and measures to prevent conflicts of interest there, i.e. when a company's management or control authority is at the same time a silent partner, even a silent partner in a company that operates with that company whose director or supervisor it is. There, of course, the marriage fell and there was also Mr Danilo Toplek in the game. I wouldn't want anyone to make the impression that this legislation is written because of Mr. Danil Toplek or his sittings on no chairs. But personally, who, by the way, is also a very influential representative of the Social Democrats, their candidate in various elections, has pointed out these problems, has warned that these problems are. These problems have also caused certain legal proceedings under way. The epilogue will probably be known if the judiciary works as effectively as, say, in the case of our fellow Member. I expect that the task of our Members is that, when we see these negative phenomena, when we feel these vibrations, we still have a transition economy like us, where the positioning of ownership and all the responsibilities and tasks arising from ownership have not yet been cleared up, so that as many protectors as possible can be accepted during this period that prevent the abuse of the conflict of interests. And this proposal, which is on the table, is a protector not to have one very possible conflict of interest, I have already described, so to speak, that it slips together and that in some way one person is operating past business practices when he is once in business with the bank, where he is also sitting in the supervisory authorities. That is why I believe that there are more than enough reasons to adhere to and support this law. We will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, but of course we are ready to listen to any constructive proposals to improve this text below the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The main objectives of the law, Mr Vukko, are to prevent a conflict of interest between members of the management and control bodies of business banks, in particular banks owned by the State and to reduce the potential for conflicts of interest between members of the management and supervision bodies operating abroad and in which they have a dominant share of the bank established in the Republic of Slovenia, with particular importance that members of the supervisory boards of banks do not have business contacts with the company they supervise. These are direct and, in particular, indirect business contacts, such as in the form of members of the company’s administration, which receives a loan from the bank, which also controls it. Therefore, the bill provides that the bank shall disclose all direct and indirect business contacts with a member of the supervisory board with the bank under its supervision. However, the public interest in the disclosure of such transactions is also due to a number of bad experiences, according to the applicants, that I am more important than banking secrecy. Otherwise, the bill follows the principle of ethical business culture and responsible and quality management of business banks, in particular those that are majority-owned. With regard to corporate governance, the Basel Agreement on the supervision of banks in working materials specifically emphasises that the policy of perception of potential conflicting interests is, and in the most difficult and crucial case, we are brought into practice. Without particularly questioning the role and legal nature of the Code, the decision on the due diligence of the members of the Management Board and the members of the Supervisory Board of Banks and Custodians and the statement on the management of the company as an integral part of the Business Report and, last but not least, the fact that the proposal was not sent to the European Central Bank for consultation, it seems that the Proposal for a Banking Act and the Government's opinion contain a series of rigid areas and points to be settled immediately. We support the Government's final opinion. Especially where it commits itself and not merely promises to explore the possibility of exacerbating the conditions for membership in supervisory councils in order to avoid conflicts of interest. There appears to be no conflict of interest to address the issue of conflict of interest more comprehensively and systematically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Groups of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The main objective of the law is to ensure that business banks are managed more responsibly and qualitatively, especially in those banks that are owned by the majority state. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support all the efforts that lead to the rise of ethical business culture and the responsibility of the management of all companies, and in particular this seems important to us in the state-owned business banks segment. Why? Let me put it a little bit wider. In Slovenia, ideas and thoughts about the sale of our biggest Slovenian bank to foreigners have become increasingly common. I am speaking, of course, of the New Ljubljana Bank. Recently, such thinking was publicly proclaimed by the Governor of Banka Slovenije. Before long, however, we discussed this at a meeting of the Committee on Finance, which was the reason why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with the President of the Government, was considering selling or, rather, recapitalising the New Ljubljana Bank in a way that would be owned by the NLB as a new strategic partner. Let me repeat the position of the Slovenian People's Party on this issue. Slovenian banks have been and must remain the backbone of the successful development of the Slovenian economy and society as a whole. Slovenian banks are one of the key foundations for preserving Slovenian identity, as national, economic and thus political sovereignty cannot and cannot be represented without strong, healthy, stable own finances. The sale of important state-owned enterprises is by no means the economic or social optimism of our country, as neither ecological nor social nor cultural aspects are taken into account. Let us ask ourselves: What does the welfare of citizens and citizens include? Certainly more than just material benefits. Does selling to foreigners mean a solution for Slovenian banks? Absolutely not. The sale of a bank to foreigners may result in the sale of a bank to a foreign country at the final stage. There are few cases where foreign banks have been maintained in this crisis. Can anyone imagine that a foreign country would rule for the benefit of the people and the country of Slovenia better than the Slovenian state? Foreign banks in Slovenia are pursuing a simple goal, that is profit. That is why they then cut credit and run home during the crisis and disregard those dimensions that they take into account at home. These are broader socio-social and economic dimensions. All the developed Western countries have kept most of their leading banking and insurance companies at home. During this global economic crisis, they received financial support from the State. Errors and violations in past business decisions of our largest bank must be resolved individually in the institution itself or even in the judicial system. However, there is no way to destroy or sell an institution. It is necessary to sanction people who have made wrong decisions, not to deny the institution as such. Let me get back to the marriage that's ahead of us. It is necessary to establish mechanisms for responsible and business ethical management of Slovenian state-owned business banks and to keep the bank in Slovenian ownership. Only then can the Slovenian economy continue to be successful in competing in the global markets. The bill in the Slovenian People's Party seems to us to be a step in the right direction towards this goal, and we will also support it further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u126	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Madam Secretary of State with the team! In the introduction, I would like to mention the conclusion of the Working Group on Corporate Governance of the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision, which states in its conclusions: if conflicts of interest cannot be prevented, it must be adequately monitored. Here we can further develop logically the intent of this bill. In this law, it is a matter of controlling conflicts of interest, which speaks of avoiding activities that create conflicts of interest, preventing such activities from creating conflicts of interest. I would also like to mention further the provision on the exercise of the full administrative separation of ownership and bank supervision functions, or the determination that, if possible, we should reduce political interference with bank controls. And then I'd mention another element. This is one of the Directives of the European Union, which states or prescribes that appropriate rules on the liability of members of administrative, management and supervisory bodies should be laid down by Member States in national legislation. This directive is followed by the proposal for a law supplementing the Banking Act that we are talking about. If we look very closely, we already have some acts in Slovenia that regulate conflicts of interest between members of the supervisory boards of banks. These are the Companies Act, the Bank's Banking Act, the Bank's Precautionary Decision, the recommendations for membership, the work and payment of members of the Supervisory Boards, the Code of Conduct for Public Shareholders. Despite the foregoing, one, two, three, four, five acts and laws that already regulate the issue of conflicts of interest happen to us and, above all, things happen as if these laws were not there. It's like it's not there. Nevertheless, we have also looked closely at the text of the articles, and we have actually identified the following. Article 61 of the old law only requires that the third point should list the criteria which will explain what it means to be considered an important business contact. In this, I'm sorry, colleagues and colleagues, there's nothing wrong. Article 2 complements Article 66 of the existing Banking Act, which refers to the duties and responsibilities of bank members. And he says: "Members of the bank's administration must ensure that banks operate in accordance, for the first time, with law and regulations, secondly, with other laws, thirdly, with other rules..." The draft law adds point four, "with the code of management of public shareholders." So it eliminates that "may" and gives the exact determination that "must" follow the code. And there's nothing wrong with that, either. The same is true of Article 3 of the bill supplementing Article 74 of the existing law, which refers to the duty of members of the supervisory board of the bank and says that "Members of the supervisory board of banks must also implement the provisions of the Code on the Management of Public Shareholders." There is also nothing wrong with determining that, in addition to what has already been written, the provisions of the Code on the Management of Public Shareholders must also be implemented. Article 4 shall be supplemented by Article 207, which shall refer to the disclosure of additional information. In addition to the 13 reasons already in force in the law in force or for which the banks have to disclose the following information, there are two additional points in the proposal for the law to be extended, namely, the business contacts of members of the Supervisory Board who had with the bank or the bank a subsidiary company directly or as partners and so on any relationship. We don't see anything wrong in the Slovenian National Party, either, because we're in the first reading. The truth is that, despite the many laws and despite the code we have, there have been irregularities, as if there were no laws and codes, because it has been written that banks "may" act according to the code. Well, this law suggests that banks "must" follow the code. They cost nothing if we accept this bond. Of course, the reality will show whether this bond will help or not. If justice works as it should, this bond will certainly help. In the Slovenian National Party, we will not oppose the continuation of the process of dealing with the draft law on the amendments to the Banking Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Sylven Tiny won't discuss it. Mr. Willie Rezman will no longer discuss it because he already has. Mr. Rado Likar has the floor. Get Tadej Slapnik ready, then Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u128	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. It's really nice to have points like this on Friday when there's no voting and there's no audience, anyway. One of the key tasks of each legal country and its regulatory authorities is to ensure such a business environment where the rules of the game are clearly prescribed and there is as little risk for the occurrence of various anomalies or irregularities. The first condition for us to come to a solution or to solve a problem is that the problem exists that during the parliamentary process it is shared and carried out by these guards, who, as colleagues Vizjak said and colleagues Barovic said, are not completely harmful, bringing benefits. In our twenty-year history of independent Slovenia, we have witnessed too many different cases, and I will say quite a few irregularities because there was no appropriate legal basis to prevent them or there were no appropriate criminal sanctions. The ethical conduct of some actors on this site would not be particularly mentioned. We have above all, as has already been said today, ethical codes of conduct, but they are non-binding and few adhere to them at all. As we have said, we have witnessed a number of reverberating management acquisitions, which almost all of them, as we can see, have ended up mainly for employees in these companies. This left us with some tycoons on the one hand that no one can touch them, as loose legislation in various areas is so much written on their skin. Thus, there is obviously nothing wrong with the law if a bank is financially financed by the CEO, who is also a member of the supervisory board of the same bank. Or a case where the Bank’s CEO is at the same time a member or even the President of the Supervisory Board of an undertaking that has obtained a number of loans from his bank for management acquisition. And then we all wonder how it is possible, of course, to expect the ethical conduct of those involved, for obviously, when God divided ethics into culture, many of them were not present at that time. The aim or purpose of the proposed law is, as has already been highlighted today, nothing can be overstated if I say again, to prevent a conflict of interest between members of the management and supervision of business banks, in particular banks in municipal state ownership, and to reduce the possibility of conflicts of interests between members of the management and control body of financial companies operating abroad and in which they have a dominant share of a bank established in Slovenia. Members of the implementing and control bodies should not have significant business contacts with the company they control, but there is no explicit definition or criteria of what is considered an important business contact. We therefore proposed in the draft law that these members of the management and supervision of business banks be prescribed by the Bank of Slovenia. The draft law also introduces mandatory application of the Public Equity Company Management Code for members of the business bank management and supervision bodies, even if the bank is not a public shareholder or its shares are not listed on the stock exchange. In our view, the current legal regime is currently lacking in order to prevent conflicts of interest between business banks, since it does not provide for objective performance of tasks where there is either a personal interest or an economic or other interest between members. The draft law also provides that the Bank must disclose all direct and direct business contacts of the members of the Supervisory Board with the bank under its supervision. Some important components of this business relationship should also be disclosed, such as loans, loan amounts, interest rates, utility and method of insurance. Banks will, or otherwise, may be eligible for business or banking secrecy, but in my opinion in such cases public interests should be more important than bank secrecy after disclosure of such transactions or such information. Financial companies operating abroad are a particular problem and have a dominant share of the bank in most state ownership. These companies must comply with the rules in force in the country in which they operate and the legal standards for these companies, so it is not possible to prescribe them in their home country, according to Slovenian legislation. However, it may be prescribed that certain important data be disclosed in the annual report of the banking group whose parent is established in Slovenia. The adoption of the amendment to the Banking Act would thus prevent many affairs that reduce confidence in the banking system and consequently reduce public financial stability. Finally, I think that the law is suitable for further consideration and I will support it in the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Then Slapnik won't discuss it. Mrs. Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I will not personally support the draft law on the amendment of the Banking Act at first reading, and the position of the Group of Social Democrats is the same. In connection with the disclosure, in connection with banking, I have to say that in 17 years of practice at work at the bank, even though there have been some very varied debates in the last two years in the National Assembly, I don't know if any of us ever think about another fact, and I don't advocate any of the possible presidents of the boards, members of the boards, directors of companies, that any one of them would have a bad feeling, but there's usually one such human river, and I remember that the old father who worked at the board of directors, members of the boards, directors of companies, he also told me that he usually said that to the doctor, to the bank or to the store, that's how it used to be, or to the lawyer or he told me, he usually wanted not only 100% but 1000% of the trust. And some of the things that are sometimes discussed and proposed here and related to data and disclosure seem to me to be cross-border and, on the other hand, some of the proposals are not sufficiently appropriate. I think that in the position itself and in the opinion itself in the connection and as some of you have already said, what to present and how, there have been some such explanations and appointments here. I think it's a shame here that any way you call someone because he's a member I don't know which party. This is a shame, because then it can always link the matter to this or that side, to this party, to another political party, to one coalition, to another opposition and so on. So I think that it is a shame that the matter is being debated and thus debated and thus represents. And therefore, on this proposal, on the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I certainly cannot support this in such a form. However, if the matter comes into such a framework and such a proposal, which will be appropriate and appropriate, I am sure that even some of such matters, that even one of the proposals is not bad, but I will not say about it, because here I am judging that I cannot support it, but in the way that I am, there I see a colleague laughing, I believe that it is funny for him, because laughter is half as healthy as he said before, a few hours ago. However, here in such a way and through such a debate and with such mechanisms, measures and in connection with the Code and everything, because today it has been said by the proposer and then also in the presentation of the position, I cannot really support this. And we think it's a shame that he's even discussing it in any way. I believe that the area is at least to some extent, even as far as banking ethics are concerned, so I would only suggest here because it surprises me that some things are now so intensely proposed. It surprises me why this may not have changed before, if it had occurred and felt, or in any way suggested that something might have been wrong before. I won't support it. But if we ever come up with such proposals, which we will all assess together, that they are appropriate, you know we can also support the opposition's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u131	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposaler, Mr Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u132	Otherwise, there is not a lot of presence, so the Trias of the Group of Social Democrats, none of the members of the LDS, which means that the arguments that might convince any of these groups of Members today will probably not fall to fertile ground. [[...]] However, I think it must be said that there is no conflict between confidentiality and transparency, as was clear from this last debate. There's no such thing as a conflict. In this case, we are talking about transparency and the public in the event that this transparency and the public is important for the functioning of the individual banking institution of shareholders, in the final stage of the country, as well as for the public and the strengthening of confidence in banks. We are not talking about transparency and the public when it comes to individual relations, individual committees in banks and so on. There's no such thing as a conflict of interest. However, this law and support for this law would be particularly in the interest of the ruling coalition, because more than there will be cases that will take place in such a non-transparent and hidden way and then occasionally occur through the media, more damage will be caused to you and your political companions, because the vast majority, almost hoping to say, all come from this political sphere and these kinds, which is also logical, given the opportunities they had in the LDA's long-standing rule and which they now have again in the SD and others. Above all, it is in the interests of the ruling coalition that this law and in particular in the interest of preventing public confidence from falling into banks, the banking system in Slovenia and the governing policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u133	Let me tell you something. Since Mr Cernač certainly wants to be precise, he should also say that there were also five Members and Members in the Chamber at the time when he began to speak. Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u134	Thank you very much. With regard to the words of the proposer, I would just like to say that, at the outset, I have said that I cannot support this, as I have presented in my presentation of the position of the Group of Social Democrats. That is why I have not repeated the conflict of interest in relation to members of management regarding the reduction of the possibility of conflict of interest between the members of the Financial Company Supervisory Authority of Slovenia, abroad and so on, but I have also talked about confidentiality and the banking system, as the proposaler has now reiterated, including this importance. That is why I have also talked about something that is in some ways closely linked to the fact that it is proposed here. In this way, trust in the bank, trust in the banks, trust in companies, anyone, and the various institutions involved with the banking system are of paramount importance. That's why I was talking about what trust means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Györek will not discuss it. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. In the proposal's supplementary explanation, counterpart Zvona Černač has already underlined two fundamental objectives that follow this law, and this must be reiterated, even because some parliamentary groups did not feel so much about this law as to present a parliamentary position, and, of course, three parliamentary groups have unannounced obstruction of this meeting, namely: Really, LDS and DeSUS, but the only 50% of the participation is from the Member Group of the National Communities. Like you said. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] 50%, yes, there's only so many of you, exactly me, 50, yes. [[...]] I thought there were more of you, yes. The two main objectives of this Act, the first to prevent a conflict of interests between members of the management and control bodies of business banks, in particular those of the majority state-owned banks, and the second objective to reduce the potential for conflicts of interest between members of the management and supervision bodies operating abroad and in which they have a dominant share of the bank established in the Republic of Slovenia. It's a good thing to repeat it once, twice, three times. First, to the first point, let us ask ourselves a concrete question: Whether and what is the conflict of interest in the case that the supervisory board of the NKBM State Bank leads, for example, Mr Danilo Toplek, director of the Taluma, and this company is a large committee or debtor of the New KBM. This is certainly a conflict of interest, and I am sure that this will be confirmed by the coalition. For example, Mr Toplek as supervisor to Mr Kovacic, director of the NKBM, may affect the terms and the level of credit. Credits for the Talum will be possible or may be more favourable, perhaps a certain loan will not have to be repaid. Because of the bank secrecy that's in this country, we just don't know it. And this work certainly limits competition in the banking market, and this can be very risky for the bank itself. Since the bank is state-owned, of course part of this risk is taken over by taxpayers, who are going from rehabilitation to rehabilitation of this bank, from recapitalisation to rehabilitation and so on. Apparently, this state-owned New KBM has been vaccinated on certain irregularities, likes to go somewhere along the border or under it, and from the bank's state money the saved bank obviously feeds certain political and also tycoon elites. As a journalist, I wrote about the suspicion of money laundering in New KBM. Politics has prevented the court's epilogue from happening. We know what policy. Since neither the President nor the members of the Supervisory Board nor the Presidents of the Administration are public servants, they are not touched by the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, so there are other levers to be found, and these levers offer novelties to this law. The law or proposal of the law provides that the bank shall disclose all direct and indirect business contacts, interest rates, insurance and the like. Such anomalies could be prevented by the proposal of this law. And, of course, second objective, this is a matter of conflict of interest between members of the management and control bodies of financial companies operating abroad in which they have the dominant share of a bank established in the Republic of Slovenia. This conflict certainly exists, and if you read the media – from Finance and so on – you will be able to run into many cases, which are also exposed by the media. The real control over financial companies that are not in direct or direct state ownership abroad, and many institutions in Slovenia also find that some of these financial companies are acting very strangely, are, to say the least, money launderers, and there are certainly many cases where corruption is suspected. Years ago, we learned from the anti-corruption commission about the LHB case in Frankfurt, when 30 million euro of credit was recently granted. We also know that if we read the newspapers, the former director of LHB has set up such a villa that a normal citizen cannot build in hundreds of years of his life. We also know who was financed by LHB: SCT, Gradis Celje, Istrabenz, Maximo Holding, some Korean tycoons, we also read that this company had a loss of €32 million last year. For example, at the time of Director Boris Zakrošek, SCT was funded, we know that, and at the same time Mr Zakrošek was president of the SCT visual board for many years. So, dear colleagues, I can't imagine that this law could be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Does Mr. Victory Jelinčič have a word? [[He won't discuss it.]] Mr. Mag. Franz Gnyardsich? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Aloysius Potočnik? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Joseph Jerovšek? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Bogdan Barovich? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Ivan Grill? Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! See, many times, when we are among the people, I myself have been asked questions by simple people who do not understand how the so-called tycoons could have occurred in Slovenia? At the same time, all those who look at us, because there are very few of us here, all together we can ask, which one of us or all of those who are watching this meeting today would get credit if we went to the bank window, and we would say that you need, say, 5,000 euros, that we are not talking about 100,000 euros or a few million euros. We'd probably ask you all about your health. But it is obvious that some, without any major effort, managed to obtain some 100 million loans or guarantees from banks, which then led to shares in companies, tycoons, and acquisitions. This gap in Slovenian legislation is also one of those culprits that there are so many anomalies in Slovenia. It's not the only law, but there are quite a few, of course, that allow it. And this law, in any way by the coalition, you try to show it that it is unnecessary or that it does not bring those solutions, that it is even possible, contrary to certain directives, that it reveals some secrets somewhere – it is not true, it is not true. A simple marriage, a very important marriage, and if interest, desire, will, above all honesty, were to be supported by this law. For this law is one that allows in a very simple way to introduce some transparency or that this spider network, which is intertwined between politics, between owners of companies, between supervisors, all of this together enables all of these abuses, all of these machinations and, of course, the failure of the Slovenian economy to sink as a stone. This is why, of course, I am also surprised that, above all, the leadership of the National Assembly – this is not the first time – the laws proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party are placed on Friday afternoon, and there is still no vote, probably with some thought of barking at the moon, because no one listens to us. But I think they're just listening to us to see us. This law would be needed, shared or at least deserved very much support, especially the presence of Members and Members, so that these matters are discussed openly here and that we are working together to find solutions. Therefore, all those you are trying to report here today, but why this law has not been introduced before, some want to report that the owls of the previous term have been created by the tycoons. Look, it's not true. However, a number of cases have been identified in the previous term as having occurred and could not be resolved. And if it were my will now, a lot of these anomalies would go away. This law is one of such, as is the law that you have already rejected in order to break the silence of society, for there too is a gap that prevents such or other machinations. Banks are undoubtedly the pillar of every economy. Without good banks, there is no economy. And that our economy is facing major problems, still a credit crunch, the need for money is great, where is this guilt? To a large extent, of course, at banks. Why the banks? Because a large number of banks, mainly state-owned or majority-owned, are in great financial difficulties. Why? Due to failed or poor investments in the past. Hundreds of millions of euros were being taken over by Mercury, taking over Istrabenz and everything related to it. Because the loans for these managers' acquisitions were essentially made in a beautiful way. We would expect every bank to behave, at least those in state ownership, socially responsible at least to some extent, even though it must lead banks to profit, based on economic foundations, but for these banks this should apply. I guess it doesn't work. Why not? Surely, the reason is that in all the banking bodies, especially the largest, there are people who are interested, politically and politically connected to a number of companies where the owners are or are controlled in one way or another. And then they afford themselves, through various such or different connections, favourable loans, so that the economy does not get the necessary money. In this Chamber I have discussed or explained many times, our parliamentary group visits all regions, many businesses and believe how many times we have been by successful entrepreneurs who have excellent programmes, sold production, do not get credit to finance the purchase of material or the necessary machinery. How is that possible? The reason is precisely in the bad functioning of the banks and those who decide on these loans. They also blame the financial situation in these banks as it is. Because in the past these credits were based or approved primarily on political criteria, which we have discussed here, when, for such or other reasons, the Administration or even the President of the Management Board, I will not appoint him here, but he has won a million-dollar prize, and he has decided that a number of companies have received a loan that would not have been justified. And it's probably also a hit-and-run investment. And the taxpayers will probably have to be the one again who we will, I think, for the third time now, have been rehabilitating the New Bank of Ljubljana. Therefore, this law that we have before us today has been expressed by some as support, the right course, the right path. And on the part of the Government, Madam Secretary of State, if it were indeed the will, if there were any inconsistencies or possible shortcomings, I am firmly convinced that it would be given in the second reading of the amendments or in any other way to prepare for at least some of the situation that we have here. Otherwise, your conclusion or your prediction that you will try to find another solution is that we are used to it in this term. All proposals by the Slovenian Democratic Party are easily rejected by reasoning that you will have a new law, a systemic solution, and then it turns out that this is not the case. So we'll wait here forever. Not us, we can wait here, we will probably at least be affected by these negative consequences, but the economy is the one that would need our banks to start acting responsible, that our banks will really monitor the economy, help it where there is at least some minimum opportunity for good business results, for some development, but in this way we will probably be very, very far away from this goal. I appeal to the coalition, on Monday, when this is being voted on, let's all let this law go into further consideration, and then you can see, if it's really not possible to find that solution, you still have that majority to reject it. So I will support this law, and I am very happy that we have been able to draw up such a text that at least partially tries to set things right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj. [[She's not here.]] Willie Trophynic. [[He's not here.]] Vito Rojej. [[No, no, ……]] Andrej Magajna [[No, no, ……]] Mag. Radovan Zerjav, you want to talk?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! We probably all agree that more responsible business culture will have to be introduced into the management of our Slovenian banks. I'm sure we all agree on that, and I absolutely agree with that. And this should certainly continue to apply. I think it would be good to support this law and possibly in future proceedings or through procedure to further complement and improve. What worries me more is how we're going to solve this thing in return. Will someone answer? Will someone be responsible for all those credits that have been granted to their friends, not to tell political friends, but to such or other friends? I recall that we negotiated with the New Ljubljana Bank for more than one year for an excellent investment in 2006. We lost a year to finally get the bank to tell us it wouldn't give us credit. We lost a year, we turned to other commercial banks in foreign ownership, interestingly, there's a glass case in two months. Investment works normally, brings profits and so on and so forth. It went through the crazy procedure, the risk of management, the sensitivity, in short, all the possible instincts in the bank, the credit boards, I don't know who was meeting to find out that they couldn't just give credit. I want to know who was meeting, who were the credit boards, who was the one who was working in the risk management that approved these loans, which we call tycoon credits today. It would be good to see these people. Not to mention another business move, which today is why we are talking about the need to recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank with some 100 million euros. Who's going to be responsible for this? Where's the former CEO with the million he got because the bank was well run. This million was calculated on the basis of some mathematical formula of some indicators, business indices, for back course. Indicators and indices for forward and consequences, which today are due to the fact that management was such or different, these indices and indicators in this mathematical formula, where the prize was calculated, were not present. Where is his responsibility for this? Where is the responsibility of the KBC not the last time? The NCB, as co-owner of this New Ljubljana Bank, also has a member of the administration, and we are all very keen to see that the bank needs to be recapitalised by a strategic partner or, in other words, to be given to a foreigner, because the foreigner will manage this bank better. He's a foreigner on the board of the Ljubljana Bank. And? Nothing. Why didn't all these stupid moves also stop those foreign partners who co-owned this bank? I wonder when someone will answer with their property for the actions he has committed for the wrong business decisions. As a result, since this law may not have been in force before, we will now, because we all have enough, as in the case of the border with Croatia, we all have enough and over our heads, the biggest and most important Slovenian bank to give to someone, because we have everything over our heads and we do not know what to do to save the foreigner, because it will save the foreigner, because the foreigners are better, fairer, smarter, more capable of not saying anything else. But we are, in short, incompetent, and we know nothing. I don't agree with that, and I can't buy it, and no one can sell it to me. I do not agree with the logic that simply everything we have now because of the crisis and because we will save public finances, we will simply donate to some new Ljubljana Bank. We are talking about logistics holding, which means that when it comes to servicing the recapitalisation of one huge holding company, we need to recapitalise, the railways will go, Luka Koper will go, and so on and so on. And we will be very happy Slovenians here at home, and all the rest will be handled by foreigners. Let's get the government from somewhere else. And we're going to make another foreigner for the Prime Minister, and he's going to be the best, the best. Because we don't know how to fix things, and we just put our heads in the sand. This was the proposal for a law that we have not dealt with in a short time about silent partners. I'm sure that's not a normal solution. It's normal for our country, or it's not normal in the world, I agree. But for our country and for a limited period of time, such a solution would certainly be right for those who are hiding in one way or another and who are in the background, in networks and I don't know what they're doing. And we don't want to, we don't want to clean up in front of our own doorstep. That's something like that. My assessment is, if we can't all get together, no matter where we sit, whether we're in the opposition or in the coalition, if we can't clean up some of the flotillas that have settled into this society in one way or another, we don't get any good stuff. This is where we talk about banks. Similarly, we could talk about a number of other areas, and we could talk about the rule of law, and we could talk about something else. I believe and appeal, let us gather so much power, accept this and try to complete the matter in the procedure. I believe that the SDS colleagues are also not convinced that everything possible has been best written, and that it is certainly about to be completed, but let us take such a step, a step in cleaning up before its threshold, this time in the banking area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. [[He's not here.]] Would you like a word from the government? Matthew Vraničar, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Allow me to briefly respond to the debate on this bill. It is undeniable that there is also an interest on the government side to strengthen the conditions for membership in supervisory boards of business banks in order to prevent conflicts of interest. The question is whether the bill before us is the right means to achieve this goal, which is common to all of us. To begin with, it also points out that the debaters have touched on a number of issues which do not have any direct connection with this bill. This law does not address the problem of credit crunches, this law does not address problems related to the ownership of certain banks. This proposal does not refer to the procedures led by individual business banks in relation to the approval of credits or other financial instruments in relation to individual projects. This bill refers to the rules governing business banks, all those operating in Slovenia. There are already some legal provisions in this area. And the fundamental question is whether we need another general, flat-rate and in a number of points that are inconclusive or more appropriate to review and supplement existing legal regulations. As I said in my opening statement, together with Banka Slovenije, we will explore the possibility of tightening the conditions for membership in the supervisory councils, which means supplementing the Bank of Slovenia decision on the care of members of the administration and members of the supervisory board of banks and savings banks. Unlike the Code, this Decision is binding, supported from the perspective of Banka Slovenije with appropriate inspection supervision and Banka Slovenije, failure to respect the decision gives the possibility to act. If we are already discussing the possibility of supplementing the Banking Act, then in our opinion the proposed regulation is not appropriate and is not correct, because it merely requires respect for the Code, without saying which provisions of the Code in the case of administration, whose provisions of the Code in the case of the Supervisory Board. If so, then we should very carefully examine what substantive provisions of the Code are already included in the decision of the Bank of Slovenia, which I have already mentioned several times today, and which should be transposed from the decision into law, but by content, not by a general reference to an individual provision. With regard to the disclosure of individual data, it points out once again that it is important to consider what is most appropriate to act on one side of the protection of banking secrecy, on the other hand, the obligations of members of the supervisory boards and the management of banks and related persons to report to the Bank of Slovenia on all transactions concluded with financial institutions in which they act either as supervisors or as members of the administration. Since the disclosure of some of the information provided for in this law to the public, as can be understood by the intention of the proposer, could lead to restrictions on the operation of individual banks – and we believe that it could have a negative impact on the functioning of Slovenian banks in the European area not only in the Slovenian space – we are once again calling for a very serious consideration of the full consequences that such disclosure could have, as proposed in Article 4 of the Act, have. Once again, I can reiterate that it is not disputed that certain reinforcements are needed regarding the members of the Supervisory Boards, but the Government estimates that the proposed method, this is an amendment to the Banking Act, is not a suitable means, but is more appropriate to act in other ways. On what, I've explained it twice today, and I don't think I have to repeat it anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u143	Thank you very much. He'd like to speak to the motioner Zvonko Černač, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u144	I must say that, even after this additional explanation, the representative of the Finance Ministry or the Government did not give any new arguments on the basis of which the rejection of this proposal would be justified. Even in the part where it referred to the possibility of harmful consequences, it was not concrete, because it would be very difficult to be concrete because such harmful consequences do not bring about such amendments to the law. There is growing conviction, and I think that this will also be strengthened in the public, which is very bad, as I mentioned earlier, when individual information through the media is leaking to the public, that when the government rejects these changes in the law, it wants to protect a certain political capital lobby that controls the capital, financial and banking majority of transactions and relations in that country. And so, of course, is politics. And this is essentially one disease that is affected by non-democratic regimes where para-state mechanisms have more power than legitimate authority. Slovenia is becoming increasingly ill for this disease. And instead of the government being the first to start eliminating the symptoms of these diseases and coming long ago with a similar law or even more acute, it rejects it. Unconvincing. We also do not support what was previously read by our colleague Rezman, but then write: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia promises to explore the possibility of tightening the conditions in order to prevent conflicts of interest." Thus, we do not support what the opposition proposes if I simplify, and we promise that we will do something to prevent or exacerbate this conflict of interest so that it does not occur. It's a confusing attitude, I must say. What do we suggest? Make it clear what we're proposing. It is not true that we are not proposing things that are not consistent and that are not imagined. I have previously cited the provisions of the provisions of this proposal. I said that there are two main objectives that I would like to repeat once again. Firstly, to prevent a conflict of interest between members of the management and supervision bodies of business banks. Here, in particular, is a state-owned bank. Secondly, to reduce the possibility of a conflict of interest between members of the management and control bodies operating abroad and in which they have the dominant share of a bank established in the Republic of Slovenia, given that they are not subject to the regulation of that country and that ours is not applicable there. And I also said that, in drafting these provisions, we have derived from a number of legal rules that we have in this country, from codes, and I also said that obviously only ethical codes, in this case, are not enough, and that individual practices need to be legalized to respect them. We have also come from materials, based on the working material prepared by the Basel Committee's Working Group on Bank Surveillance, entitled The Principles of Corporate Governance, including Directives 83/349/EEC and 2006/46/EC, and the Commission's recommendations of 15 February 2005 on the role of non-executive directors or members of the Supervisory Board of Public Companies and on the commissions of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board, which also have a number of provisions on the prevention of this conflict of interest. In the proposal for amendments to the law, we have tried to write down decisions that are not the most restrictive, which still follow our constitutional and legal provisions in the sense that they are not unconstitutional, but which means, if these violations occur, an important sanction. The 61st Article of the Act therefore provides a third-point supplement where we gave the Bank of Slovenia the task of determining what is considered to be an important business contact in the 66th Article, where the law on the responsibilities and duties of members of the administration speaks. We have written down to add a new fourth point where members of the bank's administration have to ensure that they operate in accordance with the Public Shareholders' Management Code. And in the second paragraph, it already states in the law "if the members of the bank's administration are jointly responsible to the bank for the damage caused by the breach of their duties under the first paragraph of this Article". This means sanctioning a violation of this Code and sanctioning it materially. So that they are liable for the damage caused by the breach of this code, the banks are liable for the damage. In the case of a private bank to shareholders, in the case of a state bank to all taxpayers. There is something similar for the members of the Supervisory Board in Article 74. And when further information is disclosed, we have added two points which talk about these business contacts of members of the Supervisory Board, which they had with a bank or a bank subordinated company directly or as partners of shareholders, directors, leading staff of the body having such a relationship. In the case of business contacts of the nature of the supply of goods or services, at least the subject of the transaction must be disclosed, the value of the transaction and the payment conditions, and in the case of business contacts of a financial nature, the duration of the transaction, the manner and type of operation of the transaction and the commission, the interest rate or the cost of the transaction. And the next point, "taking into account legal and other acts governing conflicts of interest between members of the management and control body of financial companies operating abroad and in which the bank has a dominant share". I think these are provisions that must not be disruptive for the Government. Moreover, I think that the Government should have prepared such a change earlier, propose it itself, also legalize it and also require sanctions if such violations occur. As long as there are no such provisions in the law, the Government should impose those sanctions in state-owned or partly state-owned banks where this is possible and influential. Because in laws there are usually financial consequences, and it says here, "in the case of this law there are no financial consequences". Of course, there are no direct but the financial consequences of this law, including the financial consequences, that we are not talking about the most important consequences that this change would bring, and this is to strengthen confidence in banks and financial institutions, which is the greatest added value and value of such a change, because, if there is, there is an extremely important belief in the failure of insurance and banking that people trust banks to trust insurance companies. This strengthens the stability of the system and strengthens confidence in the country, the system and all other institutions. Once this trust is shaken, when this trust is gone, then these systems begin to collapse slowly but very thoroughly. And the financial flow of trust causes the financial outflow and so on, of course, what is happening. We can't say it's not happening. If some savers, those who save at a bank, find out from the media that the heads of that bank, in conjunction with some directors, share some favourable loans under substantially more favourable conditions than that of the average citizen, the average taxpayer, of course, trust in this institution is stifled. And slowly, slowly, this mistrust is growing more and more, of course, not quickly, in one month, two, but in a few years for sure, which is bad. And we are now at the point when we learn from the media, say a concrete case again, Mr Danilo Toplek, we have already talked about it, then we have in this story the current head of Mercury, Mr Blaž Pesjak, who was granted credit by his father at Factor Bank with 0.5% of the profit that bank experts say is impossible to approve if someone does not sign it. It is said that his father had to sign it over all these instruments in order for this credit to be granted. For a loan that is not known how high, in 20 years this means, after writing Finance 66,000 Euros plus for the one who rented this loan, and, of course, it will be a loss for the bank. And there was a lot of disdain when Chief Pahor's cabinet chief got a credit with a premium of 1.6. What's this one? And, of course, this gentleman is also performing in this yard of Mr Toplek's company, Talum, with some solar power plant as a co-owner. Mr Toplek, as President of the New KBM Supervisory Board, has such and different business relations. In short, when these cases appear in public and the criteria in some cases appear to be different from those in all others, and these data are not disclosed by the institution itself, this is very bad. Because if the institution were to expose them and tell them so, and so on, the loan was granted, under such and such conditions, it would also tell why it was. It may have been all O.K. that other relationships that are important in such an arrangement, but the worst part is that such relations happen somewhere in secret, hidden to the public's eyes, and then come through the media space to the public and start to undermine confidence in the credibility of this institution, and above all cause a sense of inequality when people wonder how it is possible that some have different access than others, who have saved their savings, pensions and salaries in these banks for so many years. That's part of the story. But the second part of this story is worse and more important. In Slovenia, in the last 20 years a system of fluctuation has been established due to the way the former social property has been transformed into quasi-private property. Some elite people have made use of this period, especially during this period of long-standing LDS rule from 1992 onwards to late 2000, which has practically occupied all the key places in banks, insurance companies, companies now allowing this collapse, which is unhygienic. And in some regulated system in Europe, it is significantly less possible, and with us, given that there is no proper control, it is so much easier. And then you have a gentleman who is a long-standing LDS policy, and I think he was also a Member, who was President of the CAD, or Chairman of the Management Board of the CAD, then he moved for a while to the Insurance Office of Triglav. Now we're hearing that the Insurance Company Triglav is becoming CEO of the Banka Vipa, which, by the way, is not a state bank, and so on. In such cases, there is a much greater likelihood that there will be transactions between these connected persons sitting in the boards and supervisory boards of banks and the boards and supervisory boards of these undertakings than in the case of certain regulated systems operating in other countries of the European Union. And this is one of the reasons why this area should be regulated. We have no illusions about changing this banking law, but then everything will always be arranged. Far from it. However, this is somehow the first step toward cleaning up these relationships. To make it more transparent to make information that is relevant in such cases accessible to the public. And on the other hand, to prevent speculation by providing partial or even distorted information to the public via the media, which is the worst. This is both in the interest of the State, in the interest of these institutions, in the public interest, because this transparency would enhance public confidence in these institutions, as well as in the interest of those who occupy these positions. I think that such regulation would also mean that their work would be easier because they would no longer be subjected to constant pressure from one side or the other, because they are also in many cases, especially in the last period we have witnessed various such or other deliberate discredits of individuals who are doing well and responsibly. So I must say, I see no compelling reason to reject this law. It was originally given, as well as in the written material of the Government, this is a formal reason, in this opinion, why it is not possible to accept this amendment. The Government states that it "is also to point out that the proposal for a law has not been sent to the European Central Bank for consultation in accordance with Article 127/4 of the Treaty on European Union and Council Decision of 29 June 1998 on the consultation of national authorities with the European Central Bank on draft legislation. That's right. And since this is the first reading, if this change of law were to pass this first step, it would have to be done. At the same time, I remembered the practice of the President of the National Assembly, and I am glad that it has not been used here again in this law. When we proposed the Law on the Public Property of Officials, which we proposed about a year and a half ago, we kept on hearing precisely because there was no such opinion. The law did not at all arrive at this meeting of the National Assembly until we have received this opinion from the ECB. It was, however, that the members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia were also listed in this Law on the Publicity of Officials. As this regulation relates to them, the ECB’s opinion on this provision had to be obtained. The ECB’s opinion was positive in terms of as much transparency as possible. I firmly believe that this would be transparency, which is without prejudice to the independence of these members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, which does not mean that they would interfere in this independence in any way if their salaries were disclosed. I am convinced that even in this case, when it comes to this law, I am almost certain that this opinion should be positive, especially because all acts of the European Union and all the guidelines in this area leave the regulation of this matter to national legislation. It is enough that this is written in some rules of conduct, rules of conduct, in acts of these institutions, somewhere codex, somewhere you can see, and Slovenia is probably such an example, and that is not enough. Despite the fact that many of us have written that these rules of the game should be followed, there are unacceptable practices that in some cases also cause damage to these institutions. I am sure that if these actions were more transparent and sanctions for the lack of transparency of these practices were prescribed, the largest state bank would not have as many catastrophic numbers as it has. The question, if so many times 100 million euros should be earmarked for recapitalisation, that this bank would be able to operate normally at all, I think there would be something similar in a number of other banks. I do not know if that can be said, but I am in the position that the government does not always act in the wisest way when it rejects all the proposals proposed by the opposition. One such suggestion, where I do not think that such action is the wisest, is this amendment to the law. This is the end of the first reading, which is a text that can still be worked on. This is about giving the first reading through, we need to get, as you wrote down, the opinion of the European Central Bank. I think that would be a good idea. And if you have the intention of doing something in this area – if this decision was not now adopted that this law is suitable for further consideration – then all of these procedures would be welcome now and would shorten the time in which your intention would be achieved, it is said, the intention of the Government would be to do so. I think that the greatest negative consequences, in addition to those financial and at the level of trust or mistrust, if these changes are not adopted, will to the greatest extent fly into the governing policy. Because only the ruling policy is ultimately the most responsible for regulating this situation and this situation in the country. I do not think that the ruling policy should allow itself to allow itself to be left out of the situation in the future due to legal and systemic shortcomings and to prevent them from being eliminated, even if proposed by the opposition. I hope that there is another possibility, and that it is possible for all of us to conclude on Monday that this law is only appropriate for the future and that we will eventually upgrade it, to supplement it. In any case, it would be right that these opportunities offered would not be missed and that they would also be accepted in further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Chernač, you have stumbled earlier in the conduct of the President of the National Assembly on another occasion. I inform you that my conduct is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the recommendations of the Legal and Legislative Service, but not according to the individual wishes of individual Members or Members or Members or Members. Keep that in mind. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? I'm opening an application for discussion. A government representative can also call if she wants to. Everyone gets five minutes. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u146	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. According to the State Secretary's argument, it would be best to say that the Government is against it and that it ends there. Because such an argument, Madam Secretary of State, I can read to you in almost every law that the Financial Ministry brings into this national assembly procedure when you pass the law with 20 articles and the Legislative and Legal Service makes comments on each article of this prepared law and then through the procedure on each article of the amendment and so on. We could do that here, if we wanted to. Not talking, not systemic, not right, missing it, missing left, missing right, up, down, I don't know where. There's a lot of things missing in the law you make from the Treasury Department and it's being supplemented here in the National Assembly. Do you agree? Is that really it? Yeah, it's true. And I'll warn you again, remember. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word is Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear secretary, colleague and colleague! As we have already said, in the Slovenian People's Party, we will support this law in the first reading, because the main objective is to ensure more responsible and quality management of business banks, which applies mainly to our state banks. I'm going to step back a lot. When we set out on our own, when we set up our country, I must say that the then politicians from all sides, left, right, middle, well established this country. By then, we had also saved the bank, and at the time, we were in big trouble, either to fix the bank or not to fix the bank, but we were aware that we had to have our own bank. And we will also now be in the Slovenian People's Party, I am sure that we will support the rehabilitation of this bank, but we are very sorry that this bank must be saved by those people who have personal income from the guaranteed, as well as those who, after all, are not great in terms of expensiveness and everything that is going on in this country and in general in the world. Now that we're talking about secrecy, about protection, about banking secrecy, who can be afraid in this country? I think that even those with relatively good personal income, if they live solely on personal income, have absolutely nothing to fear. And I don't think they're ever gonna catch them either. But it'll be up to those who've put the state on the line as much as it's packed up today. Why does it have to be like that in Slovenia? Why can Poland develop very well? Why is Germany recording 4% of growth? And we're still dripping. I claim that in Slovenia we are in such a crisis mainly because of ourselves, to the greatest extent because of ourselves, only because of the economic crisis. And if we had such laws and codes that we would follow, not just talk about them, the country today would not be in the same zone as it is. It's not a good message either, we're just moaning because we can't brag. We could be even more hustling, but this is not a good message for our citizens and citizens. When we talk about a conflict of interest, it's sitting in two places, in a company that you run poorly, in a bank to get credit, then to hold the company, and then they both fail together, and in the end, we're trying to fix it. I think it's only right that one time it's over. And you know what, selling to a foreigner means a solution to Slovenian banks? No, it doesn't, but I think we could start looking for managers on the world market, because ours are very, very expensive for such bad leadership. And these managers of ours who say that Slovenia will not be able to do it without them, I ask you nicely, who will take them abroad? None. Everyone's gonna be on the road, everyone's gonna be able to go to the employment office, but there they're gonna be taking support based on the salary they're getting right now, no, I'd put you on the minivan or not. And so I see one step towards a better goal, and once again I will repeat my words from my first performance in the National Assembly when I asked the Prime Minister who in this country is the government, who has power? Does the authorities have capital or have democratically elected policies? At the time, I was hoping that I was too skeptical to have politicians, but I don't think it is that the government has capital, but it just pushes and pushes and at home will only stay what is here, sometimes we said in the factory, "what is 'growled', nobody drags you away." What's real estate, no one can drag you away, but the money's all out anyway. And I think we also have cases like those in neighbouring Croatia in Slovenia. There should be tax confidentiality, too, but they traced those secret accounts. So you say, don't be afraid of such laws. I recommend that we move on to the second reading and talk together, no matter what political gender we come from, and try to make one order. But I would like to tell you something else, Madam Secretary, we are democratically elected politicians, and I must tell you that in your performance today, I would say, verbally as non-verbal communication, which I think you and I deserve a more respectful relationship of conversation, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Please, Tinker Bell has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u150	I did not stumble at the hearing of the President of the National Assembly before, I said the facts. What if it means facts, stumbling when you act? That's not what I said. The fact is, in the same legal situation at the time, it was different from today. When it was right, I don't know, and I don't care. It is important that the opposition also has the opportunity to come to the National Assembly with what the Constitution guarantees and to deal with these things here in the National Assembly. Earlier it was said that we also talk about things that are not the subject of this law, that some also spoke about things that are not the subject of this law. I have to say, maybe not directly, but indirectly, yes. All these things are also related to the numerous financial losses of individual banks, numerous write-offs, numerous claims that will never be paid and for which at least the largest state bank – and state banks are partly owned by the state – should be known in the National Assembly. Well, if we're being honest, why did the banking system collapse from the outside? Just because of the cover-up, because of the things that were happening in the background, because of the transparency. And when such a tariff started, it never occurred to anyone in these countries to object to the disclosure of these things, but it was private banks. And in America they previously supported and reselled the largest bank that was the biggest debtor, as you managed to deal in Slovenia who will sit on the chair of the President of the Management Board of Nova Ljubljanska Banka. I think that this process has lasted more than half a year and has caused enormous damage to this institution also at the level and at the point we are talking about today, trust. This would probably not have been the case if the policy had not pursued, above all, the political objective of politically covering these seats, these seats and these chairs. And it would be easier if this conflict of interest were incorporated into the law that individual players who raise phones and agree on 100 million loans could no longer do so. This too, see, is the subject of a change in this law, including this. And that's the problem in this country. This also calls for the recapitalisation of the New Bank of Ljubljana. If things were to go differently, I firmly believe that a large majority would not be necessary. Of course, this problem has deteriorated further in the context of the financial crisis, normally. Since we were in the situation at the time, while there was enough for everything, there was no problem, only as long as there was enough for everything, one received 5,000 euros or 100,000, and some 100 million euros – usually in a shorter period than that 5,000 or 100,000. But when the crisis occurred, and when the possibility was gone, things got tougher. Those who had good programs, good ideas, have many times been left empty because of this fluctuation and have failed to finance their entrepreneurial ideas. And many of these were forced to leave Slovenia and seek their opportunity from our country. This is also the problem of this law and this is also the problem of these relations. And greater transparency and a cleaner situation that would clean up these things would only help to strengthen these practices and also to avoid such and similar cases as we have witnessed. And one more thing. When people read these articles, such as this: "For the current rescue of Mercury from a forced settlement, it is somewhat unusual that Blaž Pesjak, son of Boris Pesjak, is headed by the President of the Board of Directors of the Bank, whose subsidiary Factor Leasing is supposed to be involved in the controversial business of former Mercury." So, what kind of information do people get from this? Dedicated companies, even if they're totally driven, if they're taken into their hands by the real ones, in saying, our personnel will be saved. An unlimited sum of money can be squeezed into it. But where these guys aren't around, we're gonna let them sink and clean up. For this reason, it would also be good for these provisions to be adopted and amended in the Banking Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-17-SDZ5-Redna-23.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Monday, 20, in accordance with the meeting's timetable. 12. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also adjourn the 23rd meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed on Monday, 20.12., at 10 a.m. Good night.
