ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear colleagues, Members and Members, Mr President of the Government, ministers, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members cannot attend today's meeting: Bogdan Barovič, Villa Rezman, Dr. Peter Verlič and Mag. Branko Grimes. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 24. A DECLARATION OF THE DECISION REFERRED TO IN THE LEGAL REFERENCE ON THE RATIFICATION OF THE ARBITARIAN AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA, WHO WAS 6. This Decision shall enter into The draft decision was submitted to the Foreign Policy Committee for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to Mrs Janji Klasinc, President of the Committee, to further explain the proposal. [[advertising in the hall]] Procedural? Mr. Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Madam President! In view of the fact that the Committee on Transport is still meeting, I propose that we first determine whether they have suspended or closed the meeting and then continue the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, you're right. Meetings between the working bodies and the National Assembly shall not take place at the same time. Mr Paul informs me that the Committee on Transport has been suspended, so the National Assembly may continue its work. I give the floor to Janja Klasinc, president of the Committee on Foreign Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At its 45th urgent meeting on 7 July this year, on the basis of paragraph 169 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the Committee on Foreign Policy set out the text of the Proposal for a Decision declaring a decision adopted at the Legislative Referendum on the Law on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, held on 6 June 2010. The Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative in Article 53b provides that the National Assembly shall, within 8 days of the legality of the report of the State Election Commission, declare the decision taken at the referendum and publish it in the Official Journal. On 2 July 2010, a report of the State Election Commission on the outcome of the vote and the outcome of the legislative referendum on the Law on the ratification of the arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia was published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. On 7 July this year, the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia confirmed that no complaints had been lodged against that report within the legal time limit and that the report had become legally binding. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a decision taken at the referendum shall be made by means of a decision drawn up by the national working body and proposed to the National Assembly for adoption. In view of the above, the Committee prepared the text of the proposal for a decision declaring the decision taken at the referendum on 6 June 2010 and proposed extending the agenda of the 19th meeting of the National Assembly by means of a proposal for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Prime Minister of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, for the opening presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u6	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Before I get very concentrated on two topics, the importance of collecting evidence below or after the initiation of the arbitration procedure and other preparations for the initiation of this procedure and the defence of Slovenia, allow me two introductory words. First of all, from this city thanks the sovereign, Slovenian people, who are finally successful and unsuccessful after 18 years, decided at the end of a successful experiment that this is a suitable way to resolve the border between neighbouring countries and thus open a new chapter in relations between the two neighbouring countries, even when it comes to all the remaining issues. I would like to tell you that during this time we have received many congratulations from all over the world. On this occasion, I would like to say that these congratulations go to, in particular, our people, those who attended the referendum and, of course, those who voted in favour. Congratulations go to their courage and reason that after 18 years of very complicated questions, which became not only political, but at one point began to grow into a security issue, they adopted a solution that proved to be an appropriate solution for both sides. It is also a solution that defends Slovenian national interests. How well, it will also depend on the continuation of the arbitration procedure. That is why I would now like to address these two issues further. For the success of the arbitral tribunal, it will be crucial that the preparations take place at the highest level of expertise and that the conduct of preparation in defence of the arbitral tribunal is centralised. It is said that the Slovenian government is preparing to defend itself before an arbitral tribunal, so that it has a pyramid of forums, organs, consultative bodies, debtors and officials and that this pyramid is centralised. Another time. An important success will be seen as a fact whether and how much we can gather evidence that is beneficial to us. Here I would like to turn, I will also do so in other ways and in other ways, to all relevant partners, natural and legal persons, to submit to the address to them all those materials, materials, documents or anything else that Slovenia could benefit in the proceedings before the arbitral tribunal. In this respect, we will give a public call, and I take this opportunity to invite Members and Members in particular to participate. As stated, the initiation of preparation for the arbitration procedure is linked to the collection of evidence, but this is only one of the eight functions that are centralised within the Government in preparation for the arbitration procedure. Let me say that at the top of this pyramid, there will be an agent, or lawyer, who will represent Slovenia before an arbitral tribunal. I am not talking about a member of the arbitral tribunal, this will be discussed by the National Assembly at the proposal of the President of the Republic, I am talking about an agent or a lawyer. I would not want to hide something that has become a public secret, it will be one of the most recognised international lawyers who has already given the principle consent to help Slovenia in the coming years before an arbitral tribunal. It will then be subordinated to the roles of those who will operate in the strategic world – I will invite important personalities of Slovenian political, social, economic life to be here by the senior domestic and foreign experts of international law who will give advice, Here will be invited [[...]] [[End warning sign]] It's gonna take some time. Let me finish this. Here will be invited people who will technically assist the agent or all those working with him in collecting and processing and providing evidence. In short, in the end, if you will allow me, Mr Vice-President, it was a time when we had different views, people have decided, now we are before working together and we are well prepared for the beginning and for the arbitral decision. In our view, what is already being collected and what is still being collected, well-proven material should only be properly prepared and presented and can be counted on for a successful completion of the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Following is a presentation of the position of the members of the groups. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Zmajgo Jelinčič Trimeniti has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u8	Good day to you all! It is a sunny day, but it is not beautiful, because we are discussing a matter in which Slovenia has received a heavy slap. At the beginning of the breakup, the Slovenian nation, which this referendum, where people were actually deciding, did not know what, mainly about whether they were for Borut Pahor or for John Janša. In fact, it goes on to congratulate Borut Pahor's team that this matter was very perfidious and clever in this political direction, rather than deciding the country. 42.66% was electoral participation. Of these, 51.54% voted in favour of the ruling coalition option, which means that only 21.98% of Slovenian voters decided what would happen to our country. Let's go to this so-called arbitration agreement, as the Slovenian government wrongly calls it, unlike the Croatian government. It's an arbitration agreement. Croatia knows exactly what this means, and our great lawyers, international lawyers who do not reach Croatian international lawyers to their knees, but some others, are still talking about an arbitration agreement. Arbitration is a forced decision, but we don't know that. In the case of arbitration, we are not talking about any agreement, because arbitration itself denies agreement and decision. Here we are also involved in an interesting conflict of ignorance of the English language by our huge employees at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and those who are being assisted. There is talk of "arbitration agreement", this is an arbitration agreement, just as they correctly translated the matter of Croatia. The arbitration agreement could be "arbitrary agreement" or "arbitral agreement". But that's too much. For elementary English, as spoken at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and as spoken by our great international lawyers, this is already too much. And with such lawyers we will sit at the table and talk to the masters of international law who are in Croatia. At the time of the former Yugoslavia was known as the so-called "school of Croatian state law" in the original. Our lawyers did not understand what it was at the time, because it was the law of the countries, but not international law, where farmers from Croatia and farmers from Slovenia are fighting about who will work the vine and who will not. Another example of how clever our lawyers are is how they talk about the Austrian Treaty of State, but the whole world knows that this is the Austrian Treaty. Austria had nothing to do with this contract because Austria was born out of this contract. In this Treaty, however, the Slovenian partisans, who, on the basis of a request from Moscow in 1943, were the only ones who fought against Nazism in Austria. And that's why Austria got its statehood. But our lawyers, of course, are still talking about the Austrian State Treaty, which indirectly implies that Austria was setting something in the contract. It is no wonder, therefore, that our people on that side have no rights because their own people in Ljubljana are denying them these rights. Your own legal so-called science, as you like to shit with this title - legal science! That's more knowledge than science, science is something else. Despite the fact that law is not science, however, it needs evidence. But these evidences our gentlemen can't gather, they can't evaluate, and they can't present. That is why I am very afraid of what will happen in further matters. I'm afraid we're going to pull so fast. When the Prime Minister said that we got congratulations from around the world - of course, one Balkan mess is somehow pushed aside. It is important to know, however, that in the West, in the European Union, no one knows what this is all about. I can say from the latest experience, a week in Paris and a week in Strasbourg - everyone thinks that this is a free border between Croatia and Slovenia. And this is also what Mr Fassino, who has been working on the report, has said, we are on this committee together. And he said, "My good friend, Mr. Paor," because he doesn't know how to say Pahor, "he said he was all happy about how we settled the border question." And when I protested and said it wasn't about any border issue, but it was about something else, he said, "Mom, it doesn't matter." Of course, it is that Mr Fassino who, two years ago with Mr Sanader, signed a secret agreement on the return of 472 houses in Istria to the Italians in order to support them in this matter concerning Croatia, because the Italians and Croatia have a common goal: the port of Koper must be destroyed in order to prosper the port of Trieste and the port of Rijeka. Of course, this is about the strong help of Slovenian lawyers, experts, I don't know who else. As we have seen, even some biologists have become involved in how right the Slovenian government is when it is necessary to kneel before Croats, take off their pants and the European Community and the rest of the communities to set the lower half of their backs. Here, of course, there were also lies that were very happy to be shared by the US business envoy in Ljubljana and by the Swedish ambassador. I allow the possibility that both officers were too low-ranking to even know what this is all about. It is more likely, however, that everyone in Sweden and the United States seemed unworthy, so that they did not even think to inform their lower officials of what was going on "there below" somewhere in the Balkans. Then we got what we got. We got a vote on whether you're in favor of Jansha or you're in favour of Pahor. Instead of knowing we're deciding our country. Of course, the media played a key role in this, as after the statistical review, between 80% and 87% of the media was for Mr Pahor's salvation, and the rest was against it. In my case, I can tell you how many times my performance has been cut out of interviews and so on, including on television. But that's just the way it is. The media are no longer free, and they are doing what the ruling coalition demands. The European Union is also slowly aware that you will not think that you will not. That bubbled soap cover over Slovenia, where the rainbow colors were glistening, was already broken and you can already see what's underneath it. If we continue to be ignorant of international law, that is to say interstate law, it is already clear that the Prime Minister does not know that the subject of the dispute must be identified before those memoranda. If we don't have the object of the dispute, all the ballots, all the notes we put in the memorandum, no weight and no value. Because those papers then go in favor of the other side. Why? Because we have not determined what we want to defend ourselves and where we want to prove our rights. It is clear, however, that this is difficult because gentlemen, great lawyers and a large foreign ministry do not know history. Clearly, history was not taught at the Faculty of Social Sciences; it was not necessary. They were learning a short version of those Marx writings. It's a very short version. Probably even the one in the comic book. Because they don't understand that either. History is clear and historical facts are clear. That is why the Prime Minister should also know here, when he speaks of the provinces, about the five provinces, about the historical landscapes that were once part of the Austrian part of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, and of which each country was a crown country, meaning that within the Austro-Hungarian monarchy it had the status of a federal state. That's not what our gentlemen are aware of. Of course not. They didn't learn that in Kumrovec either. I'm talking about Kumrovec, because most of our young people were in those different classes of high school, including history school. These countries were the ones that formed a common Yugoslavia. It should be noted that Croatia did not have state status, but was only an integral part of Hungary within the Austro-Hungarian monarchy. When we went to the common country, even King Alexander repaired the Croats and said, "They have joined the common country of the Slovenian country, the Kingdom of Serbia and the Kingdom of Montenegro." Croatia was added to the country as part of Hungary because of the war helm. It is also logical that the Hungarian Parliament does not wish to ratify the borders with today's Croatia. It is logical, therefore, that the new Members, both in the Council of Europe and in the Western European Union, are making amendments requiring a return to this situation and calling for the repeal of the Trianonian Agreement. No longer quietly, as it was before, but with official written requests. Makes sense. And if the Italians are already connecting with the Croats to strike the Slovenians, why don't the Slovenians connect with the Hungarians, and we have at least one ally on this matter. No, no, no. Because our gentlemen at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are so smart they don't understand anything. This is already the state of Peter's principle when you go to the top and fall over, but you fall significantly deeper than your starting position. Unfortunately, that's how it is in our loving country. The fools lead the way, the fools will lead the way, and the fools will bring it all down to ruin. That's what it looks like. And that's what 21.98 percent of Slovenian people demanded. Instead of demanding a decision that is at least two-thirds, no, the ruling policy has put this on its back and not 22% of people have decided what to do. I expect that Croatia will now enjoy beating the Slovenians on their "fine" tourist tours with even greater joy. That's what's been going on, and it's going to happen. What will our government do? It is likely that Mr Pahor will propose or any party of these pro-pulsive young people from those times will suggest that we actually introduce another official language into Slovenia, which is Croatian. And they will say that Mr Pahor in Dubrovnik has beeed so beautifully with Mr Kosorje in Croatian. It is interesting that I did not hear Kosorjevo speak one Slovenian word in Slovenia. I think even when she thanked our prime minister for the tea, she deliberately did it with a Croatian accent on that "thank you". It is sad that we have to discuss these matters here. It is sad that colleagues from a party, which I otherwise greatly appreciate, are laughing at things like this. I'd expect some tears, because we're talking about a country we won't have. But of course, brotherhood and unity are still submerged and flowing through the veins of some, and they are still willing to forget that we have our own country. They may also regret that we no longer have a common country, although I must say that at that time the care of the Slovenians was significantly greater than the concern of our government today for our Slovenians. It's tragic that you have to say it, but it's true. I think a lot of veterans who then turned their weapons against the invaders would have turned them to the other side today. That's who I am. I wouldn't shoot that side anymore, but first I'd put away the traitors, because it's tragic for my own people to betray our country so much and they don't care so much about their own country. We could learn something in Croatia. We could learn their patriotism. We don't have an exception. Just that there'll be peace, just so it's nice, just so it doesn't get worse than it used to be. These are basic phrases that we unfortunately listen to. We'll fix it, we'll do it, we'll do anything to make you happy. And they're happy in Europe. Why? Because they don't care about Slovenia. 90% of the people in Europe don't know where Slovenia is, let alone from other countries, we're like Bantustan to them. Instead of making our country no longer be that, it is fortifying us in this position, because it does not come far, with stupidity even less. But when stupidity is linked to a manslaughter, as in the case of our ruling coalition, unfortunately, we are in danger of falling apart and falling apart.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u9	Mr Anton Anderlič has the floor on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u10	Your Honor! The agenda item is a deadlock, formal and reads as follows: a proposal for a decision to announce the results of the referendum on 6 June. We are only doing this today because we need to round up the procedure in accordance with the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, the debate was about how, what the agreement was supposed to be, how long, how controversial, in many parts it might be, but it was concluded. And citizens and citizens went to the referendum and decided as they decided. The fact is that many felt that the referendum was not necessary, that politics, including the National Assembly, should take responsibility and decide on an agreement, as we are working on all international agreements, on ratifications of agreements and so on. It happened the way it did. We are pleased, despite the fact that some allegations of complaints and non-recognition of results have been made that the Supreme Court has received neither an objection nor a single complaint, and the matter is also quite clear from this point of view, as is the result of the report of the Republic Election Commission, where the results have been found. And the result is that the state of Slovenia, together with the Republic of Croatia, must prepare everything necessary to achieve what we have decided. We are pleased that we have chosen this path, that we have a broader consensus, that later there may be no evidence, that the ruling policy has imposed some way of resolving the border issue with the Republic of Croatia and that we have therefore endured less than we do, less than we want, less than fair, less than the least fair for the two neighbours. Therefore, in addition to choosing a way, the arbitral tribunal, as provided for in the agreement, has also established clear points of reference, what is expected or required of the arbitral tribunal when it comes to the content of the resolution of this matter. We have determined that land and sea borders must be established, we have determined that contact with the high seas must be established, that a way of access to the open sea must be made possible, which Slovenia has always had, and will also be available in the future after the court's judgment has been delivered. You don't have to do this today. It is not right to discuss what needs to be done, what others will do and what else we can contribute as politicians, such as the National Assembly, Members in this process. We have done our part to this end, including today's announcement of results. Now it's the other ones. We expect to get results in a relatively timely time and that this issue will be resolved by the agenda at least in a way that we can expect with optimism, so that these issues, which have been brought to the arbitration tribunal, will be resolved to the satisfaction of both Slovenia and Croatia and the international community, which in this case has very much engaged. The messages that were before and after the referendum are optimistic and everyone is looking at a democratic, civilized way of solving open issues as a positive one, which is also a recognition of Slovenian democracy, Slovenian maturity, when it comes to dealing with some issues courageously and in an appropriate way. At the Liberal Democracy Club, we will certainly support the proposal for a decision, because there are no other choices and other options, as the results are known and no one, except in political rhetoric, has opposed them or has relativised or reduced the importance of this decision at the referendum. We will support the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u12	Mr Vice-President, Honourable Secretary-General of the Government, Honourable Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Dear Fellows and Fellows! This agenda item, which announces the decision of most Slovenian citizens and citizens who participated in the legislative referendum on the ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between Slovenia and neighbouring Croatia, may look more like a formality. This only officially concludes the first phase of the resolution of border issues with the Republic of Croatia, which Prime Minister Pahor and Kosor launched in Trakoscan last year and which resulted first in the signing of an arbitration agreement between the two Presidents of the governments in Stockholm last November, and then with the ratification of this agreement in the parliaments of both countries. Slovenia has further confirmed its support for this agreement at the referendum and its positive outcome is the epilogue of today's announcement in the National Assembly. However, today's formal review of this declaration act is also an opportunity to briefly assess the importance that the adoption of the Arbitration Agreement Law brings to both countries. We would have been blind if we hadn't noticed how the relations between our country and the neighbouring country had eased tensions and hostile tones from both sides of the border, which had meant almost two decades. Today, there is a spirit of peaceful agreement on resolving past unresolved issues and thinking about joint projects in the future. For example, we see the withdrawal of those Slovenian reservations to the Croatian negotiating venues, which we had only because of the unresolved interstate border, and finally the last constructive meeting of the two heads of government at the Croatian summit in Dubrovnik and their agreement on the continuation of the talks in Bohinj. That doesn't mean the problems are gone, by no means. We still have a pretty busy stack. This does not mean that we agree with the Croatian side over and over again. But it means that we are talking definitively as neighbors need to talk, just as the conversation is being made and the whole civilized world is being negotiated. For this reason, Slovenia has gained a strong reputation in the international community and has set an example for other countries in the Western Balkans, how such difficult and controversial issues can be resolved in a peaceful manner. In the coming years, we can expect similar border issues and disputes to be addressed by other countries emerging from the collapse of the former Yugoslavia in the Western Balkans. They could set a good example for the arbitration court model to settle disputes peacefully in the overheated Balkans. Slovenian voters and voters were also aware of the above. After the Constitutional Court has found that the agreement is not contrary to the Constitution, after our confirmation of the arbitration agreement at the meeting of the National Assembly on 19 April this year, people have also decided on an agreement at the referendum. The National Election Commission found that the majority of voters who voted in force at the referendum voted in favour of the implementation of the Law on the ratification of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Since the referendum represents one of the foundations of direct democracy and is an expression of the will of the people, we must undoubtedly respect it. For all the reasons mentioned above, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposed decision declaring the decision already taken on 6 June this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Today, the National Assembly announces that voters in a legislative referendum with a minimum majority of 51.54% to 48.46% decided to implement the Law on the ratification of an arbitration agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was adopted by the National Assembly on 19 April 2010. We announce the outcome of the referendum, which has fatally divided Slovenia in a matter that will decide the fate of Slovenia in the long term, on a decision that the ruling policy should draw up in a way that unites and does not share, as the Court of Arbitration ruled that the Constitutional Court considers that there will be consequences contrary to the Constitution. The Court of Arbitration will determine the course of the border between the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on land and sea and the so-called contact of Slovenia with the open sea, which will not be determined in accordance with the principle of fairness. It will decide to contact the English term "junction", whose interpretation and meaning are also shared by the professional and political public today. The territory of Slovenia has been established by the Basic Constitutional Charter, as stated by the Constitutional Court in its judgment on the constitutionality of the arbitration agreement. The Arbitration Agreement provides for the primary application of international law in establishing a maritime boundary, which will constitute a central line. The provision to determine the contact of Slovenia with the high seas will, however, bring minor correction and determination of the variant of the service route. The Constitutional Court was aware of this and therefore it is envisaged that the decision of the arbitral tribunal would be contrary to the Basic Constitutional Charter and that a change to the Slovenian Constitution would be necessary. The Slovenian territory will therefore be amputated. The potential for Slovenia to exploit the status of the maritime State is likely to deteriorate significantly, as will the competitiveness of Luke Koper in relation to the two neighbouring competition ports, the River and Trieste. This interest of neighbouring countries will have an important impact on the pressure on the arbitral judges. It would be possible to avoid this risk, but at crucial times the Slovenian government has succumbed to some pressure and, on the other hand, has trusted false promises. We must remember that before the arbitration agreements there were two proposals for solutions, Rehn 1 and Rehn 2. Since Rehn 1 was bad for Slovenia, the then government, with comments, reached the table of the Rehn 2 proposal, which Croatia arrogantly rejected and halted the tripartite negotiations between Slovenia, the European Union and Croatia. The closure of the opening of the negotiating chapters was followed because Croatia provided documentation prejudicing the flow of the border at sea. Although the request for the withdrawal of the predecessors was justified, it should be carried out without a complete blockade, which was poorly reflected in the international community. Due to the extremely poor financial situation and the resolution of this crisis in the country and the pressure of the work of the international public that supported Croatian requirements, the Pahor government decided, without consultation with the opposition and with sufficient weight, to agree to arbitration. Following this decision, the Croatian side achieved a unilateral improvement in the draft arbitration agreement, as there was a change in the time dimension so that the work of the arbitral tribunal would begin after the signature of the Treaty of Accession of Croatia to the European Union. This is even worse than the provisions of the Rehn 2 proposal, which envisaged a decision on the border before Croatia enters the European Union, which would be a real pressure on Croatia. Furthermore, the arbitration agreement does not contain the condition of establishing a border in accordance with the principle of fairness ex aequo et bono, which gives the arbitral tribunal discretion to set a limit which will not include territorial contact of Slovenian territorial waters with international waters. The hope that Slovenia will achieve a vital national interest after territorial contact with international waters is at stake, as Croatia started to show its true face in the week following the referendum regarding the situation of the depositors of the Zagreb branch of Ljubljana Bank or the implementation of a successful agreement. Since Slovenia has undertaken in Article 9 of the Arbitration Agreement not to take any steps to prevent Croatian negotiations and the European Union from approaching it, the Governor of the National Bank of Croatia, Mr Rohatinski, has taken immediate advantage of this and has arrogantly rejected the possibility of Slovenian banks entering the Croatian market before the debt that has been repaid by the successful agreement ratified by Croatia is a success. Although there is a great sympathy between the Prime Minister of Slovenia and the Croatian government, Mr Pahor and Mrs Kosorje, it seems that Croatian suitors are not preparing for their president, it seems more likely that President Pahor is offering Slovenian dot and family silver. Although the issue of these savers has been resolved by the success ratified by Croatia in 2004, the Prime Minister of the Government is still negotiating and Mrs Kosoreva is no longer cooperative here. The SOPS Croatia also performs only in the work that is appropriate for it. So we can see how Croatia will surround the arbitral judges and their support. Sailing, holidays on the islands and other things will have a fatal impact on Slovenia's vital interests, but the President of the Government speaks freely today about the congratulations he receives, because he is aware that when the account for fatal naivety comes, the head will hurt others and, above all, the conscious Slovenians. Today we announce an agreement on arbitration, which was unfortunately ratified by the ordinary majority, even though the letter of the agreement will provide for a change in the territory of the Slovenian State. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of the fate of this step, and we are also wondering what the fate of this country will be when such frivolous landings take place in the blackmail of other neighbours and what this means for the Slovenian future. Although we cannot avoid the proposal, we will take it into account in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! A week ago, I was with some other Members in Buzet at a meeting between the two Presidents, between Mr Türk and Mr Josipovic. The hall in Buzet was full of people, full of economists on both sides of the border. The atmosphere was, of course, pleasant. Most of the people there, not only in Buzet, but also on our side of the border, took a breath after this referendum. The border economy has also retreated. In Buzet, the directors of small, medium-sized, large companies, representatives of chambers of commerce, many border mayors, of course the mayor who jumped on the enemy train last minute, were not there, but no one missed him. But the fact is that the atmosphere was positive and without such an outcome of the referendum, today would be significantly different. The outcome of the subsequent legislative referendum on 6 June was in fact relatively narrow, but at the same time unequivocal and very clear. Most Slovenian citizens and citizens who attended the referendum decided sovereignly and democratically to support a signed agreement between the governments and the National Assembly on arbitration between Slovenia and Croatia. Most of our citizens and citizens believe that the envisaged arbitration is the right way to resolve the 19 years-long border dispute and has therefore rejected as unfounded all the concerns and catastrophic predictions of the opponents of the agreement. Also, most citizens have said "no" to impatient calls and attempts to strain relations with the neighbouring country, which have gone so far as to talk about war situations, occupations, capitulations, amputations of the territory and so on. We have always strongly supported good neighbourly relations, patient dialogue, negotiation, the search for mutually beneficial solutions and, in certain circumstances, arbitration. We believe that the results of the referendum are not limited to the majority support of the electorate. The right or most eloquent message of this referendum, or its outcome, comes from the geographical distribution of votes. The highest support for the agreement was right at the border, especially in the border region, which is the core of the dispute itself. The support was expressed in Primorske, Ljubljana, Maribor, as well as in some other parts bordering Croatia. In Slovenia, support for the agreement was so-called plebiscite, 70%. Most at the Istrian border itself and even among those voters who attended the referendum from the villages on the left bank of Dragonje. Of the 25 countries involved, only 8 voted against them. And you can imagine who voted against: one family and some of their friends. The message is important and must be understood by policy. If she does not understand it, she does not understand Slovenia and does not understand the need for normal relations with neighbouring countries. People want a solution to the border dispute and believe that the approved agreement is also fair. The Emissary Group really has no doubt. The outcome of the referendum welcomes and welcomes all further initiatives to improve the situation and relations with neighbours. Of course, we welcome and support the conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Today, the point is a proposal for a decision on the declaration of a decision adopted at the legislative referendum on the law on the ratification of the arbitration agreement between Slovenia and Croatia on 6 June, i.e. a good month ago. This is, according to our assessment, a formal decision to be taken by the National Assembly on the basis of the outcome of the referendum. It is interesting, however, that we have virtually a huge amount of time available for this debate, and we do not know exactly why. I think we could give even 30 minutes specifically to our Group of Members. However, when we discussed a bill on ratification of the arbitration agreement some time ago, it was April 19th that we had five minutes after the parliamentary group and a minute for the MP. I don't understand this, and so there's no logical explanation for how the National Assembly works. As it is said, it is a formal decision, a formal decision, a formal finding, although the referendum has made its own statement, at least we have no official information to make anything wrong with the counting of votes or anything else. And that's why there's no doubt. As we always say, it's a referendum, they decide electives and voters, even though with one vote more "for" or, on the contrary, "against". Why such a result was, there is more explanation, each side has its own explanation. I do not want to go into the content today, but one of the explanations is that the electorate and the electorate obviously had enough already, all of this 18-year-old fruitless negotiation or non-negotiation and decided as they decided. Now what? The most important thing now is to produce real credible and solid evidence, or documents, that, with able representatives, may correct something that we have already lost by ratifying the agreement confirmed at the referendum. However, after today's presentation, I find a relatively large void. If today, a good month after the referendum, the President of the Government suggests that he will issue a public call for the collection of material or historical facts, that is how I understood it, then what adds the documentation to our assessment is obviously not available. And I don't know if it's already been determined whether you've already cleared out who's going to appoint a member of the arbitral tribunal. The government or the president of the state? Although we have no reason in the Slovenian People's Party's Group to oppose the decision resulting from the count. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State! This decision is merely a formal confirmation of what has been expressed by majority will in the referendum on the arbitration agreement and which, in accordance with the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, in its report, has also been found and confirmed by the State Election Commission, and the Supreme Court has also confirmed this report in a legally binding manner. The Members of Parliament have decided only to confirm these findings. The referendum will be announced and published in the Official Journal. Once all these formalities have been completed, however, all the further procedures necessary to obtain the arbitration agreement will be completed before the tribunal. In doing so, our very hard and long-term work, which we have done in the effort to regulate our borders, will be completed. I believe that it has been done well enough and will make a good trip to the tribunal to accept a favourable and just solution for us. I am also pleased that in the DeSUS Group and the DeSUS party, I can say that we have made a decisive contribution to the positive decision on the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In the framework of the announced time, it is still possible to discuss the submitted Members and Members. I'm asking, does Mr. Franco Yuri want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Victory the Elinčič Noble? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Miran Györek? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Sylven Tiny? Here you go, Mr. Tiny, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. I've only got a minute left, and I'd say the essentials. It would be right to win Slovenia, and it is not right for people to have made decisions between Pahor and Janša. It was unfair for the decision to be passed on to the citizens, divided and disputed. This issue could be settled by policy in the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority. I don't think the referendum was the most correct. Those who have property in Croatia have called for a "yes" vote. The NOB fighters also staged picnics and urged people to vote in favour. I think that was incorrect. Of course, everyone feared for their assets in Croatia, no matter what happens to Slovenia in the arbitration, will surely lose some territory. In the final phase, Slovenia will decide on the land and the sea. It will decide our territory, our sea, because Croatia in this dispute, as we say, has nothing to lose. Our government has knelt completely under pressure from foreigners and has thereby damaged Slovenia for part of the territory and sea. This will also be felt by the economy, which will certainly show up in the years ahead. The map will also change. What happened was what Mr Pahor thanked the people who went to the referendum for taking on the ultimate responsibility of regulating the border with their vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u23	Thank you very much. He wants the word "magic." Borut Saiovic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President, for your word. I must say that it is right that we have failed the story and continue it as it should be. The referendum has shown its own. What people thought and what they chose when they made decisions, each of us knows when he was in the box. I am pleased to inform Slovenia and the Slovenians that we want to resolve matters with our neighbours, that we want to negotiate, but not to argue indefinitely and to drag matters forward. I am glad that they have made the decision as they have, positively, as far as the agreement is concerned, those at the border, those who are experiencing problems, feel the same way every day. And if anyone does, then they know for sure what's in their best interests. I am pleased that we also respect this decision in the Slovenian Parliament and that the matter is going on as it should be, in the interests of mutual economic cooperation, which must experience a new impetus and a new momentum. And that's why I support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mrs. Janja Klasinc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u26	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would only react to a few discussions today. I think today, as my colleague Jelinčič said, is sunny, and unlike him, I think it's beautiful. He doesn't think he's pretty. I think it is nice that we will finally confirm this arbitration agreement, also officially, to end this 18-year-old history of conflicts with the neighbouring country. However, I would like to say that it is not true that people made decisions between the government of Borut Pahor and the opposition led by John Janša. People knew exactly what they were deciding. This is a major simplification of these decisions, which have been taking place for almost a year in our country. We talked for a year. It is something else, the opposition is acknowledged that they succeeded before the referendum one part of the Slovenian population is confused. Instead, people no longer knew whether what experts say was true, almost all of them, 99% of international lawyers, whether it was really what political experts are politicising, in sayings and, of course, we Members and other politicians. They were confused by the fact that, with more than 65% of the support at the beginning of this year, this support fell to a percentage that we then experienced at the referendum itself. But I don't think it matters. The important thing is that most of them were in favor. And this pro opened the door to a new era. And not only during the period that I said before in the introduction and presentation of the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats, but not only for relations between the two countries, I think that a new period should start in this area with us in Slovenia. We are now in the stage, as the Prime Minister has already said, of preparing a memorandum. This is now the most important phase that awaits this country. And I hope that we are all aware in this country that we must withdraw our powers, draw up the best possible arguments that will support our right, which we have in this long-standing border dispute, and only our cooperation and only our creative debates and assistance to each other can lead to a good result even then in declaring the judgment of the arbitral tribunal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Would you like a word, Mrs. Secretary of State? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on this item on the agenda. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a decision, so the assembly on the proposal for a decision will decide, in accordance with the meeting's time frame, tonight, which is expected at 23.20 p.m., after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. I should now be on the agenda of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Aviation Act, and the chairman of the Committee informed me that the point was not yet ready. This is why we cannot deal with this point. The Transport Committee will continue its consideration of the law and, if the treatment on the home labour body is completed and a report is prepared, the assembly will consider this item on Thursday, if it is not prepared, will postpone it. I am now terminating the agenda item on the aviation law. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Composition of Agricultural Lands and the Lords of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted to the Council of State for consideration. With regard to this bill, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposed to the National Assembly the adoption of a decision that the proposal for a law was not suitable for further consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Franz Bogovic, Chairman of the Committee. Here you go, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u28	Well-regarded colleague and colleague, esteemed vice-president, distinguished secretary of state! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food is held at its 21st session. 6. 2010 as a parent working body, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia submitted by the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 59th session. 4. He decided that the proposal for a law should be examined in a simplified procedure. Representatives of the proposed law, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Legal and Legislative Services, the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia and the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber of Slovenia participated in the committee. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and the legislative and technical aspects. The Legislative and Legal Service has made specific comments to Articles 1, 2, 4 and 5 of the Law. The opinion of the Government of 27 was forwarded to the Committee. 5. 2010 which explains the reasons why it opposes the proposed solutions. With regard to the proposed transfer of tasks under Article 12 of the Fund Act already carried over from the Forestry Institute to the Fund and other tasks back to the Slovenian Institute for Forests with a view to more efficient management of state forests, the Government explained that the solution in this amendment to the Act was a rational consequence of the ineffective practice so far in this area, so that the return to the situation before the implementation of the Agricultural Land and Forests Fund Act would be a step backwards. It was pointed out that this was not a transfer of public tasks governed by the Law of the Institute of Forests, but only for the tasks that this has performed contractually against payment for the Fund. The government considers that the management of these tasks, which are the original competence of the Fund, is more effective if they are carried out by the Fund itself, which has so far been understaffed, and consequently the transfer of workers from the Institute of Forests to the Fund is more rational from an organisational, economic point of view, mainly because the Fund cannot employ new people. With regard to the proposal to amend or introduce a supervisory committee appointed by the National Assembly and thus to suspend the Government's reporting once a year to the National Assembly on the functioning of the Fund, the Government explains that the current law of the National Assembly on the Fund has not changed, that only the role of the executive branch of the Authority has been strengthened, and that the Government can, by means of implementing measures, contribute most to the implementation of the active land policy. With regard to Article 4 proposed, which removes the regime under which the Fund must transfer 7 % of the share of the concession fee to the municipalities with which the State forests under which the fund is managed, so that concessional benefits from the state forests are wholly subject to compliance, the Government explains that the applicable law has defined the basis for determining the concession fee paid to concessions for the exploitation of forests owned by the State, which is further defined in the concession act and has determined the percentage of the funds under this Title that belong to the municipalities. This issue has been raised until the Fund Act has been implemented, as the Environmental Protection Act, to which, according to the award of concessions, also refers to the implementation of the Agricultural Land Fund Act, the applicable Act on the Fund. This law provides in Article 164 that if the concession of natural goods is awarded by the State, it also belongs to the municipality. The funds allocated to the municipalities referred to in this Title shall be earmarked and the amount of the duty shall be comparable to the calculations of the part of the concessions belonging to the municipalities of natural goods such as water and mining rights. In accordance with the rules of procedure, the congregation was also called upon to give its opinion, 9 congregations responded, one law upheld, and 8 congregations opposed, in particular, this provision of Article 4. Following further clarifications made by the so-called drafter of the law, the Minister of Agriculture mag. Dejan Židan, representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, representatives of the Agricultural and Economic Chamber, as well as Members, we have joined the debate. The Committee then voted on the decision proposed. This Decision is as follows: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. This was a proposal tabled by the Coalition Member, and this motion for a decision also received the support of four members of the Committee and two of them voted against.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the State Council on the proposal for a decision will be presented by Councillor Cvetko Zupančič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Greetings, Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government and all present! The Council of State has, as is known, vetoed the law adopted on 18 December 2009, given that this amendment of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests did not bring any quality, nor did it in the operation of the Fund itself, nor in relation to the improvement in relation to the others involved in these amendments to the law. Our view was that this amendment to the law brought about a weakening of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests in particular financially. It was also stated in the explanatory memorandum that after 2012, the Fund became a budgetary user, given that it has been deprived of quite a few of the funds that have now come into existence as the income of the Fund, and has ceased to do so since the adoption of this law. Then, in some strange circumstances, this law was passed by 46 votes and entered into force so that the provisions of the new law are implemented. But we see that all these more or less major changes that have been made actually bring problems. I therefore think that new questions, unknowns and implementation problems are being raised in all these chapters. The key changes made to this law by the Council of State, in view of everything I have already stated, are in the following. One is concessionary to municipalities where the State Council considers the matter to be controversial because it brings only a few municipalities a key income, and this actually means even a burden to all other municipalities, given that this income is minimal because they do not have state forest funds. For the fund itself, this means quite a loss of income. Then transfer of workers from the Forestry Office to the Agricultural Land Fund, where the matter is similar. This is now being implemented, human resources plans are changing, financial plans are changing and there are many problems in the institution. The office will deal with this transfer for a year, but in fact it will not be able to perform its real function. And of course, the control that was, I will not say transparent, but transparent, that almost more transparent could not be, because it was under the jurisdiction of the National Assembly, but now it is under the authority of the Government, which is also politically constituted, but is significantly less transparent for the public. And our view was that this control would make sense to return to the previous situation. All these changes bring matters back to the state that was before 18.12. 2009 It is our opinion that this country must adopt a policy to adopt the agriculture strategy for the coming period. First, adopt an agricultural land law, have a policy on how it will deal with land in the future, and then adopt a law on the Agricultural Lands Fund that would actually be comprehensive and then see where the guidelines go. Once again, I must say that it makes sense for this law to be adopted, that the situation is returned and then, as a common policy, the policy of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests is also pursued. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The Government's position on the proposal for a decision will be presented by Mrs Mag. Tanja Strniša, State Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u32	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has examined the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, hereinafter proposed a law on variant C, and has found that the proposed law cannot be supported. The Government does not agree with the proposal because the proposed amendments do not comply with the principle of the division of power into legislative, enforcement and judicial matters, nor with its solutions or proposals, in any way contribute to a more efficient and economical operation of the Fund and to the application of the objectives and principles to which this law is intended. The full content of the bill makes it impossible to achieve the Fund’s main objective, to actively and effectively implement agri-land land policy and to restore the Fund’s business back to the situation before the implementation of the Fund’s amendment of 20 February 2010, which, inter alia, aimed to increase the impact of the Government on the operation of the Fund, thereby allowing more cost-effective and cost-effective management and management of agricultural land and forests owned by the State through implementing measures. The fact is that the Government can, by means of implementing measures, contribute most to the implementation of an active land policy. The Fund of Masters with almost 16% of all land owned by the State, of which 10% of all land in management, is therefore very important, but only possible, so that the Government can direct its activities at the implementation level. By amending the composition of the Council of the Fund, the new Fund Act eliminated the conflict of interests between the private interests of members of the Council, who are representatives of the tenants or concessionaires, and the public interest pursued by the Fund. The draft law in variant C, however, re-establishes this conflict of interest. The proponent states, inter alia, that "that the arrangement would return to the previous situation which in the management of state forests excluded the possibility of manipulation and unilateral decisions of the current authorities, since the management of the Fund was subordinated to the decision of the National Assembly, and also established the control of the Fund by the National Assembly through the Supervisory Board." However, it is precisely these indications as to the possibility of manipulation and unilateral decisions of the current authorities that appear to be political manipulation of the facts, namely, the National Assembly is a political body whose situation of power reflects the will of the people, and it is this National Assembly that has given the mandate of the current government by most votes and thus entrusted it with the implementation of its policy. The logical and indisputable consequence, therefore, is that the Government, as the executing authority, is entrusted with the exercise of constitutional rights in this public institution, as is the practice elsewhere. The fact is that Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure imposes on the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia the supervision of the implementation of the financial plans and the regularity of the financial statements of public funds, public undertakings and institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. However, this year's adopted amendment to the law of this type of control over the Fund has not changed, only the role of the executive branch of the authority responsible for the implementation of the policy has been strengthened. The role of the National Assembly in the supervision has also remained with the amendment of the law, as the Government must report to it at least once a year on the activities of the Fund and the measures, as the Fund’s Supervisory Committee has so far done. The draft law in variant C provides in the transitional and final provision that the provisions on the transfer of workers, assets, archives and tasks shall cease to apply. In doing so, it should be stressed that it is not any transfer of public tasks carried out by law by the Slovenian Institute of Forests, but exclusively for the tasks which the Institute has performed against payment under contract so far for the Fund. The Government is of the opinion that the performance of these tasks, which are the original competence of the Fund, is more effective if they are carried out by the Fund itself, for which it has so far been a human resource. In terms of content, this solution makes perfect sense, since it limits the powers to carry out the public tasks entrusted to it and to manage property, in this case it is the Fund. We therefore consider that the termination of these provisions from the point of view of the State makes no sense in any way. This solution, implemented by the amendment of the law, is a rational consequence of so far ineffective practice in this area and therefore would be a step backwards. In view of the above, the Government does not support the proposed law in variant C and considers that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Ambassador of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! In the parliamentary group, we note that the State Council, by amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, wants to preserve the situation, as was the case with the law. This attitude towards the Fund surprises us, however, because this continues to be the policy of the State Council, which is obviously subordinated to the interests of capital to the greatest extent. In fact, the State Council has already vetoed both the law on the participation of workers in profits and also the law on the management of capital investments in the Republic of Slovenia. So the State Council is somehow trying to maintain the non-transparentness of business in capital investments. If we look at how the fund was organised prior to the amendment of the law, we find that it was organised as a para-national fund, which the Government has not actually managed to control, but was allocated to the largest extent to the interest groups, which were either leasers of agricultural land, concessionaires in state forests and denationalising beneficiaries. Where, then, is the State’s interest or public interest in the State Council, and where is the division of power between the Government and the National Assembly, after all? The adoption of the law has very clearly divided the role of the Government, which has a significantly greater impact on the functioning of the Fund and thus a significantly greater possibility of implementing agricultural land policy than was possible prior to the entry into force of the law. The National Assembly also retains its competence to control the operation of the Fund, and this is the task which the National Assembly has under the applicable legislation to oversee the Government, which must report to it on the functioning of the Fund. In addition, the relationship, which concerns the very interest of capital, states that the State Council, by means of this amendment of the law or by amending and supplementing the law, wants to prevent the division of concessions from state forests between the municipalities and the state. So they want to maintain their disrespect for the implementation of the Environmental Protection Act, which imposes the sharing of concessions on natural goods between the congregation and the country. This also raises the question of why the State Council, as a state institution, would have an interest in not respecting the law on environmental protection and why it is of greater interest that these funds are then shared within the fund, where they have remained, in a non-transparent way, in which the Government and the National Assembly do not have enough influence. The transfer of workers from the Institute of Forests to the Fund is also due to the fact that we have been warned that there is too little control in the operation of concessionaires in state forests and that it has been legal for part of the employees from the Institute of Forests to be employed in the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, particularly in the part for which the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests has already paid services to the Institute of Forests. Even if the delegation of tasks encountered difficulties or could not be sufficiently controlled, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, under the applicable law, has the possibility to determine how this control will be carried out by the institution. So there is also the possibility of the Ministry of Agriculture's influence or decision to make this part of the surveillance as effective and effective as possible. With the amendments and amendments to the law proposed by the Council of State, we will in fact return to a situation that has been neither transparent nor ineffective, so that we will support in the Group of Social Democrats the decision of the home labour body that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr Robert Hrovat.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Councillor of State, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! In its introduction, the representative of the proposed amendment stressed that the proposal was ready to establish the situation before the last amendment of the law in January of this year, to which there were many comments when it was adopted. The recent amendments to the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands have reversed the function of the Fund and weakened the control of the operation. The Fund's Supervisory Committee has proceeded and reporting on its work directly to the National Assembly, which is certainly controversial. The operation of the fund, which is entrusted with the operation of agricultural land and forests, cannot and must not only be a matter of government, but of society as a whole. The proposal seeks to achieve, by means of an amendment, that the control of the Fund is maintained. We are also convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the previous regime was better because it advocated a better situation for normal work and, above all, the need for public control of the Fund. At the first reading of the adoption of this law, we warned the Slovenian Democratic Party that it would be right for the National Assembly to maintain the role of the fund's body nominee and to remain a supervisor. This is not about the influence or influence of politics, it is about transparency in front of the public, it is about the debate on the proposed staff in the National Assembly. The complainant also submits a complaint to the existing law on concessions and transfer of workers from the Institute for Forests to the Fund for Agricultural Lands. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we believe that these solutions will have some positive effects over the long term. It is a pity, since the coalition has concluded that the law is not suitable for further consideration, that it has prevented the amendment of the bill from being amended and that we will therefore vote in the Slovenian Democratic Party against the conclusion that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Kek will present Mr Zares' position.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The Council of State has introduced into the National Assembly the law which is before us today and whose aim is to strengthen the cooperation of the Fund with the Institute for Forests and the staff composition of those bodies is returning to the previous situation. Furthermore, the supervision of the National Assembly over the work of the Fund is being re-established and concessional benefits from state forests are entirely subject to compliance. The government has given a negative opinion on the proposed law, namely the transfer of tasks, workers, funds and archives from the Institute to forests to the fund in its opinion a step back. This is not about any transfer of public tasks by law to the Slovenian Institute of Forests, but exclusively to the tasks that the Slovenian Institute of Forests has performed contractually against payment for the Fund. The performance of these tasks, which are the original competence of the Fund, is more effective if they are carried out by the Fund itself. The proposal also repeals the arrangements under which the Fund must transfer 7 % of the concession fees to the municipalities with which the state forests with which the owners of the fund are located, so that concessional benefits from state forests are fully subject to compliance. In the Group of Members, we have already warned from the beginning of the consideration of the bill that changes to the agricultural land law are necessary, but not in the sense of going back to the past, since the novel, which is before us, only brings back the situation and reintroduces the old system, which has already proved to be inappropriate and ineffective. We are absolutely advocating a better innovative solution, where we would finally have more words of expertise than political parties. The proposed amendments to the Law on the Agricultural Lands Fund really do not agree with the Group, so we will not support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u40	Have a nice hello again! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which was submitted to the State Council for consideration by the National Assembly, came in the same period as we in the Slovenian People's Party proposed a novel which was already rejected here in the National Assembly. Even in view of this law, we did not create any illusions that any of these changes would now be confirmed by the coalition. We all know that even at the adoption of the original law, the basic one, the shadow of doubt has fallen, in particular the 46th vote, which, as we have seen at the end, also passed by the former minister, who also defended this law. The amendments proposed in this Act are in particular three. One relates to concession fees to municipalities, the other relates to the bodies of the Fund, in particular the Supervisory Committee, and the third to the transfer of employees from the Institute for Forests to the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. As regards the first financial consequences, it is said that the municipality would not be entitled to concession fees, so we do not agree in the Slovenian People's Party, given that in the original law of 45 % of the concession tax, this amendment was eventually introduced that the concession duty is now 7 % of the price of wood. We estimate that this is more appropriate and that all those responsible for the concession fee must do as much as possible to make this difference between the price of wood and the cost as much as possible, it is said that the concession fee will increase. But it is also right that the congregations where these forests lie receive this share. That is why we have also amended this article of the Law in the Slovenian People's Party's Group and have proposed that it should not be adopted. With the other two changes that this novel brings, we agree in the Slovenian People's Party. It is the bodies of the Fund, the reintroduction of the Supervisory Board. We are convinced that this decision, which some say is not political, because it is proposed by the Government – I do not know if it is better and if what the coalition proposes is not political – but I do not understand this term as a political proposal, but I think it would be right to be over the assets represented by 200 000 hectares of forests, 50,000 hectares of the best agricultural land, in order to be the supervisory committee over what would be called the National Assembly, which, after the old regulation, was also obliged to report annually and, as we have also considered this report here in the National Assembly in recent years. Those who claim and oppose that someone who manages or processes agricultural land in this supervisory committee would also be in charge of this place, allow me to report that we do not have as much disputed agricultural land as the forests are at stake. Such an arrangement, which is now in this law, will lead, according to the position of the Slovenian People's Party, to the fact that the present concessional beneficiaries will also have these concessions in the future, and here we think that something should change in Slovenia. Therefore, we believe that this body could also help to do so, as it has done in recent years, by increasing concession fees itself. And usually governments also report in a kind of frigid form, if I may use this term, to review the National Assembly and also to deal with it. As regards the transfer of employees from the Institute for Forests to the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests in the Slovenian People's Party, we support this solution proposed by this amendment to the law. We agree, therefore, that such arrangements would continue to be made for the fund to be carried out by the employees of the Forestry Institute, where the profession is gathered, so that even with a contract where at one point a substantial number of people could participate in the field, because these people know this area, this control can also be thoroughly strengthened and we fear that this arrangement, which is envisaged here, will be worse. For these reasons, we will vote in the Slovenian People's Party against the decision proposed, and it is concluded that this law is not suitable for further consideration. So, in one part, we support this law and we would gladly correct it with amendments if the coalition allowed it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The draft law before us provides in Article 1 for the transfer of tasks already transferred from the Slovenian Forestry Institute to the Fund under Article 12 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests and other tasks to the Institute for Better Management of State Forests. In this regard, all procedures for the transfer of workers, funds, archives and tasks under Article 12 of the novel shall be suspended. However, any transfer procedures already carried out shall return to the situation prior to their entry into force. The fact is that with the last amendment of this law we have transferred tasks, workers, funds and archives from the institution to the fund for rationalisation and ineffective practices in this area. Therefore, according to our assessment, the return to the situation before the last amendment of this law would be a step backwards. In our opinion, too, the content of this resolution makes perfect sense, since it limits the powers to carry out public tasks and to manage property. From the point of view of effective forest management, this is a perfectly logical solution. The recent amendment to the Law did not reduce the importance of its role in the field of expertise. Good cooperation between the two institutions is, according to our assessment, crucial to the effective management of state forests in the future. In both cases, it is a state institution that must strive for the same objectives in the management of state property. However, to the extent that cooperation is indeed correct, it also confirms the readiness of the two partners and has already carried out a number of activities relating to the transfer of workers, funds, archives and tasks in accordance with the provisions of Article 12 of this Act. The proposal before us also contains a provision introducing a supervisory committee appointed by the National Assembly, thereby suspending the Government's reporting once a year at the National Assembly on the operation of the Fund. Even at this point in the DeSUS Group, we cannot support the proposaler, because according to our assessment, reporting to the Government to the National Assembly, in addition to other advantages, is also in line with the principle of the division of power into legislative, enforcement and judicial. In accordance with the law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Government is also responsible for the implementation of the laws and regulations adopted by the National Assembly and for the full functioning of the state administration. However, in Article 4, the proposal for a law submitted by the Council of State repeals the regime under which the Fund must transfer 7 % of the concession fees to municipalities in which state forests with which the owners of the fund are located, so that concession fees from state forests are fully in line. The most recent amendment to the Act has laid down the basis for determining the concession fee under concessions for the exploitation of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia, which is defined in more detail in the concession act and which determines the percentage of the funds belonging to the municipalities under this Title. This issue has been raised until then, as the Environmental Protection Act in Article 164 provides that if a concession at the level of goods is awarded by a State, part of the concession also belongs to the municipality. The funds allocated to the congregations referred to in this Title shall be made available to them. The amount of the duty in relation to the state-municipal ratio is comparable to the calculations of the part of the concession belonging to municipalities, natural goods, for example the use of water for the production of electricity, mining rights and so on. That is why the Government does not support this amendment, and we also agree with the Government at this point in the DeSUS Group. As was already possible to understand from the above, we do not support this bill in the DeSUS Group. We will therefore support the decision of the parent working body that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! In the Slovenian National Party, we were not very surprised when we received the text of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands of the Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which was sent to the National Assembly for consideration by the State Council. In the past, we have seen quite a few complications and very different interpretations of the content of certain articles of the law, as well as of the objectives, principles and main solutions of the law, which were exposed during the meetings of the home labour body and the National Assembly in the positions of the interested public and local communities, that I do not speak of the complications of voting and the various and many incomprehensible interpretations. We fully understand the critical view of the Council of State on certain legal solutions and the justification for certain proposed amendments to certain articles. Unfortunately, at the same time, we must also find that it is illusory to expect a completely uniform view of certain legal solutions. In particular, we have in mind the proposed amendments to Article 7 and Article 10 concerning the competence of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint members of the Supervisory Board of the Fund, or the obligation to report on the functioning of the Fund, as well as the explanation and justification for the proposed content of the Article, which deals with concession taxes and consequently the withdrawal of funds and the proportion of revenue of the municipalities in which the state forests are located. However, it can certainly be a very controversial argument by the applicant when it comes to the inconvenientity and irrationality of the existing solutions and the destruction of the fundamental postulate of forestry, that is solidarity. However, we fully agree with the fundamental principles to be ensured by the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, either in one form or another, in order to ensure a comprehensive management of agricultural land and forests, efficient and economic management and to ensure adequate care for sustainable management of agricultural land, farms and forests, and to follow the objectives of adaptation to climate, environmental change, conservation of nature and good water conditions. These are certainly universal principles that have in the National Assembly as well as a broader indisputable consensus and unity among all of us. However, there are divergent views on the implementation and the way to the realization of the principles or objectives of the law. Members of Parliament have different opinions and views on this. In fact, there is no uniform position for all Members and Members within the coalition, which in itself is not necessarily bad. The final decision must, however, be achieved by harmonising views and interests and by deciding, by voting at the end, even if with only one vote more "yes" or "against". This is the basic rule of our parliamentary democracy, even though it is not ideal to recall the famous Winston Churchill River: "This parliamentary democracy is bad, but unfortunately it is no better". In view of the already presented complications and in order to avoid any senseless interpretations of the vote, we in the Slovenian National Party have decided to vote on the members of our parliamentary group each on their own conscience and good faith that our vote will contribute to the implementation of the above-mentioned basic principles of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you very much. All together a nice greeting, a greeting to the secretary and a co-worker and a representative of the Council of State! From this city and in this Chamber we have already talked a lot about the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, also on committees, and in the past we have found that these are state forests, not private ones, that they must enable many public, social functions to be accessible to all. And this is the message that we want to continue to defend in the LDS Group. The State Council's proposal to amend this law makes a number of points. And I have to say, the marriage got a solid majority. He was supported by 46 Members and Members at the end. In this country we have a number of laws that apply, serve in practice and have received significantly less support in this Chamber. However, it is an interesting thought, with which we do not agree that the State Council wants to return to the situation somewhere else, somewhere in the previous situation. The wheels of history and development are not spinning back, but they are moving forward and we need to look for better, more constructive solutions here. The first basic consideration of why we even came to change this law was the simple realization that state laws make it possible for some to get rich out of the state forests all too little together. And if someone wants to return the situation at that time, then I don't think he's on the right track and the support of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia won't get him. Since the launch of these discussions in the 2006-2007 mandate, we have been increasing the purchases from the state forests at the Committee on Agriculture and then also in the National Assembly. That's good. Now there have been disputes about how and how we will share these funds, whether it is the right decision for all, not some, Slovenian municipalities that have state forests in their territory to give something from this concession to maintain roads: forests, municipalities and others. Of course, anyone who comes from the countryside and knows the condition of these roads will likely agree with us that it is time to think. Many of the forest roads need to be closed with prisons and opened only when they have economic exploitation. Others, which also serve the wider interest, sport, recreation, the accumulation of conditions, hiking and other things, need to be put into better shape. Most of them would have long deserved better repairs, better maintenance instead of endlessly expensive macadamian repairs, including a modern hard asphalt coating and more. In practice, most of the roads we are talking about are in the macadamian implementation. And the most expensive road in the world is the macadam road. What we've fixed for a while now will take all the water in the next hours of a terrible time. Even such nonsense, as it happens to drive sand from one end of Slovenia to another to maintain these roads, because all the municipalities of origin do not have pedestrians, while we are spending a litre and a litre of expensive fuel, is of course pointless. The next nonsense is who should be involved in controlling the fund. It is important that, before and under the new legislation, the National Assembly has participated in one or the other form and, by amending the law, also assumes the decisive role of the Ministry, with the Minister in charge. And when something is wrong with the operation of the fund, we have the finger to show someone who is responsible for the inadequate situation, but not as it was now for years and years when the legislation and the management of this area was one or more political parties in Slovenia. That was also the case, and now there is a suggestion of who is the true overseer. I do not see any need for Slovenian forests, their management should be monitored in particular by the Association of Slovenia. Why would you do that? We have representatives of the Agriculture and Forestry Chamber there, who do their work faithfully and honestly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The proposal for a decision will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the votes, which is half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. Agenda item 16a Article of the Law on the Composition of Agricultural Lands and Lands of the Republic of Slovenia, Official Journal No. 19/10, official IDENTIFYED UPB2 The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was tabled by a group of five Members, first signed by Milan Gumzar. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners to Mr Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Well hailed to the government's representatives, the president, the representative of the State Council! With the authentic interpretation of the first paragraph of Article 16a of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, we wish to make it clear what the word 'destination' means and what the date 20 means. Seven. 2004 In the implementation process, the provisions of the first paragraph of Article 16 of this Law on the free transfer of land to the property of municipalities in practice raise a problem due to the inadequacy of the term 'destination' and the different interpretation of the term by beneficiaries on the one hand and the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia on the other. The problem is broader in nature, as it constitutes an obstacle to the return of land to at least 15 Slovene municipalities which adopted amendments and additions to spatial components of the planned acts in due time, but were published in official newspapers, so that the holiday period fell after the cut-off date referred to in Article 16, paragraph 16, of this Act, of course, that is 20. 4th this year. The building of the land, which was built with spatial components of the municipal social plan for the period 1986 to 1990 and with spatial components of the municipal long-term social plan for the period 1986 to 2000, was intended for the construction of buildings and was a social property until 10 March 1993, came, in fact, free of charge after that date, to the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. Of course it was a date of 20. 6. 2000 for the construction of buildings. It follows from the above that the legislator, in the regulation of the Law of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, has already dealt consciously and unequivocally with two different situations in article 16th, namely, that the legislator in the first paragraph has used a dictatorship to build buildings by 20 July 2004 and, in the second paragraph, a dictatorship which was at 20. Seven. 2004 defined as unpaved building plots. It is clear from the grammatical interpretation that, in the first case, the legislator provided for the adoption of the act and, in the second case, its application. It follows from all this that in order to fulfil the conditions for the transfer of property under Article 16, paragraph 2, of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, an act must be in force and, for the first paragraph of the Article in question, adoption. Otherwise, the legislator would also use the same interpretation in the first paragraph as in the second, but of course it does not. Therefore, we propose that the National Assembly accept the proposed interpretation for reasons of uncertainty.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u50	Good afternoon, Madam Vice President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food is held at its 12th urgent session. Seven. 2010 was treated as a working mother body by the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of paragraph 16a of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, proposed by a group of Members to the National Assembly with the first-signed Mr Milan Gumzar. Representatives of the proposer, Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Law and Legal Services, Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber participated, and the Mayor of Lenart was invited. The proposaler shall be detailed [[as a predecessor]] explain the reasons for adopting this authentic explanation, which is why I would not repeat this in this part. I can tell you that the Legal and Legislative Service has given its opinion on 30. 6. 2010 In this detailed written opinion, the Legislative and Legal Service assesses that the proposed authentic interpretation is inconsistent with Articles 154 and 155 of the Constitution, as it could have been based on the legal effect of the spatial act of the municipality before its entry into force. The proposed authentic interpretation is also not possible and is not necessary, as stated in the Legislative and Legal Service, since the provision of Article 16(a) first paragraph can only be understood in accordance with the Constitution in such a way as to ensure that the spatial act providing for destination must be implemented up to 20. Seven. 2004 The following opinion was presented by the Government, which considers that the authentic interpretation is not necessary, that the law is sufficiently clear and that the law itself speaks the same way as the authors of the authentic interpretation, states that Article 16 a.m. is written by re-establishing the criterion of Article 57 of the original Law on Public Funds, which was amended in July 2008 and has interrupted the provision that the land which was originally walled back to the municipalities under the ex-lega rule is said to be the municipality in which it is located. So the government's position in this work, as we can see, was different from that of the Legal and Legal Service. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal of this authentic interpretation. The following clarifications were given by the applicants who reasoned, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, that this authentic explanation was necessary, because in practice there is a problem that they are on the Agricultural Lands Fund, that they are not returning, and that it is right for the National Assembly to define this and this matter to be clarified, because after 20 years, they have not returned. Seven. 2004 has been practically illegal for these changes to be reinstated. It is true, though, that some congregations had not yet had these documents published in the official newspapers. This was also explained by the Government's representative, who stated that the Fund would also receive a guidance on the implementation of this law. The representatives of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber further expressed the view that the interpretation was necessary in order to avoid different interpretations of Article 16th of this Act. Also by the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the belief was expressed that the law in force should not be discriminatory in the return of building land to municipalities, which would certainly be, if a small number of municipalities were said to be unable to follow the basic intentions of this law, it is said that these land would return. The mayor of the municipality of Lenart also explained his views in the following meeting of the Committee. Members and Members of Parliament also made their views known in the debate, who agreed with the vast majority that this purpose, which was proposed in the law, should also be achieved. The majority of Members also voted in the Committee on the two conclusions of such an opinion. Thus, the Committee voted on two conclusions. The first conclusion was that the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food considered that the authentic interpretation of Article 16a of the Law in accordance with the agricultural land and forests of the Republic of Slovenia should be adopted. Such a decision was confirmed by six votes. The Committee then voted on the decision that the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food should propose to the National Assembly that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of paragraph 16a of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia should be adopted in the text as presented by the group of Members with the first signed Milan Gumzar. By seven votes in favour and no "against" this decision was also adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. The Secretary of State, Mrs Mag, has the floor. Tanya Strnisha.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u52	Dear, Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to present to you the opinion of the Government on the proposal of the Group of Members, signed by Milan Gumzar, for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the first paragraph of Article 16a of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. Applicants shall state that there is a disputed interpretation of part of the text of paragraph 16(a) of the said Act, which provides for a cut-off date and provides a condition for the transfer of land from the country to the municipalities. Applicants shall indicate the cut-off date in Article 16, paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 of the Act. They consider that in order to fulfil the condition for the transfer of immovable property under Article 16, paragraph 16, it is necessary to implement the act and to adopt the act for the first paragraph of Article 16. In practice there is a problem due to the inadequacy of the term "set" and the different interpretation of this term by the eligible municipalities on the one hand and the Fund of Agricultural Land on the other. The Government considers that an authentic interpretation is an instrument that allows the legislator to legally address the content of the legal provision as it has already adopted, in the context of its original meaning, so that it is in practice clear what this requires and, in no way, the authentic interpretation must not imply amending the law. Such an interpretation of the law has, as a rule, legal effects on the back, i.e. since the law was enacted. In the view of the Government, it is entirely clear from the grammatical interpretation of Article 16a of the Law that the legislator, after Article 16a(1) of the Law, requested the adoption of the planary acts and not its application on a cut-off date. In the second paragraph of Article 16a of that Act, however, it requires that land be defined as unpaved building land on 20 July 2004. The law therefore provides, in accordance with Article 16, paragraph 16, for the transfer of land from the country to the municipality, for the acceptance of municipal plans by the competent authorities of the municipality, and in Article 16, paragraph 16, for the transfer of land from the country to the municipality, that the land with the planned acts of the municipality was to be defined as unpaved building land by 20 July 2004, which means that these planned acts had to enter into force on 20 July 2004. The law is therefore sufficiently clear in this part, and the authentic interpretation in the view of the Government is not necessary, even more, from a legal point of view would be inappropriate. Let me summarize. The Government has examined the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 16a of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, submitted to the National Assembly by a group of Members with first-signed Milan Gumzar, and has adopted an opinion that an authentic interpretation is not necessary because the law is sufficiently clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Robert Hrvat has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! With the entry into force of the Law on the Agricultural Lands Fund with effect from February this year, due to the incomplete definitions of the proposer, we have come into a situation where a certain article has to be interpreted through a mandatory authentic interpretation in the National Assembly. In practice, there are different interpretations of Article 16(1). And given that the opinions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly differ, we are convinced in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the authentic interpretation of the first paragraph of Article 16 of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is necessary and justified. How to set an indisputable date that would be the point on which contracts between the Fund and the municipalities would be concluded so that unburied buildings could be transferred to the municipalities? When does the congregation set up a building site? It is intended when a spatial act is adopted in the municipal council. And that's the decision of the municipal council. And before that, all coordination with individual space regulators takes place, including the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which in fact has to agree on whether a land can be used for construction that was formerly agricultural. It is therefore a state-to-community relationship. And the cut date must be the date on which the spatial act on the municipal council was adopted. It is interesting, however, that the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly claims that an authentic explanation is not possible and that there is no need. But the government doesn't think it's necessary to explain it because the law is clear enough. The practice and implementation of the law, however, show a completely different picture. This is a major confusion, which is a reflection, as we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party, a poorly prepared law. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the decision to adopt an authentic interpretation of Article 16a of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr Villa Trofenik is next on behalf of the Zares Group. [[He's not here.]] Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u56	The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of paragraph 16(a) of Article 16a is due to the fact that the text of the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation results in the fact that in the implementation process it is necessary to lay down the first paragraph of Article 16a of the Law on the free transfer of land to municipalities in practice, due to the inadequacy of the term "design" and the different interpretation of it by beneficiaries on the one hand and the Fund on the other. In our view, the problem is broader in nature, as it constitutes an obstacle to the return of land to at least 15 Slovene municipalities, which adopted amendments and additions to spatial components of the planned acts in due time, but have been published in official newspapers so that the holiday period falls after the cut-off date referred to in Article 16a(1) of the Act on Compliance. In the opinion of the proposers of the authentic interpretation, the legislator, in Article 16a of the Funding Act, has deliberately and unequivocally settled two different situations. Thus, in the first paragraph and in the second paragraph, he used a different dictatorship. It is clear from the grammatical interpretation that the legislator provided for the adoption of the act in the first case and its implementation in the second instance. We agree with the view that the word "designated" means that all acts adopted in the congregations are adopted by 20. Seven. 2004, even legally valid, regardless of whether these acts have been published in official sheets or in individual official newspapers or medo-Chinese newspapers. We believe that some congregations have had difficulties in adopting these acts by 20. Seven, possibly for a number of reasons. One of them is that some municipalities have not received a timely decision by the Government, which would allow them to complete all legislative procedures in due time and also publish them in official papers or newspapers. As the co-proposers wrote in their own explanation, the desire for an authentic explanation is to further strengthen, in fact, the information that all spatial acts adopted on city councils or municipal councils are up to 20. Seven. 2004, valid and that for all those lands destined for up to 20. Seven. 2004 as building plots, there is also the possibility of returning the municipalities to their disposal. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that it is not that simple because lawyers obviously interpret it differently, so it is the job of the legislator to say what he meant when he adopted such a law. We are convinced that the Members who adopted this law have also written and used this dictatorship for the purpose of building, or they would have written it as in the other two paragraphs. We are convinced that this first paragraph of Article 16 must be interpreted in such a way that those who are up to 20 congregations are to be interpreted. Seven. 2004 arranged for those congregations to be restored or transferred back to their own congregations. We will therefore support the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 16a of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests and thus avoid discriminatory treatment of certain Slovenian municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will support the decision of the home working body by which the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the first paragraph of Article 16a of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia be adopted in the text as presented by the Group of Members. Let me say that we are Members of the DeSUS co-signatory of this proposal. We have proposed an authentic explanation because, in the implementation process, Article 16a of this Law on the free transfer of land to municipalities in practice, the problem arises because of the inadequacy of the term "design" and the different interpretation of it by beneficiaries on the one hand and the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia on the other. The problem is of a broader nature, as it constitutes an obstacle to the return of land to at least 15 Slovene municipalities, which adopted amendments and additions to spatial components of the planned acts in due time, but were published in the official gazettes in such a way that the holiday period fell after the cut-off date referred to in Article 16 paragraph 1 of the Act. Therefore, we have proposed to the group of Members an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 16a of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which would make it clear that the provision of Article 16a(1) of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia should be understood by transferring, free of charge, to the municipalities of those lands for which, by 20 July 2004, the municipality adopted appropriate amendments and additions to the spatial components of the municipal plans for the construction of the buildings. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we cannot agree with the Government's view that an authentic explanation is not necessary. Therefore, as has already been said, we will support the proposal of the parent working body and the proposed explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honors are here! The present problem or question of accepting or rejecting the authentic interpretation of the first paragraph of Article 16a of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the free transfer of land to municipalities, is a typical example of the old practice of our former legislators, such as those or others, when laws or individual provisions were consciously adopted or enacted with such a deliberate determination that it was possible to interpret the contents in different ways, according to domestic terms. Many marriages were like Swiss cheese, shot with so many holes that it could have been for universal use. And so now we are actually discussing a similar matter, i.e. the inadequacy of the term 'destined' within the context of this article. It is a matter of different interpretations of the disputed concept as understood by the beneficiaries on the one hand and the Fund of Agricultural Land on the other. The original sin is actually the legislator's consciousness and intentional diction of Article 16a of the Law on the Fund, where two different situations are regulated in this Article, so that in one paragraph I quote, "until 20 July 2004 the purpose for the construction of buildings" and in the second paragraph, "which were defined on 20 July 2004 as unbuilt building land". This actually means, in the first case, the adoption of an act and, in the second case, its application. This means, at the same time, that in order to fulfil the conditions for the transfer of immovable property under the second paragraph of Article 16a of the law in question, it is necessary to enforce the act and, for the first paragraph of this Article, to adopt the act. Of course, such a situation is not normal, as it consequently constitutes an obstacle to the return of land to at least 15 Slovene municipalities which have adopted amendments and additions to spatial components of the planned acts in due time but have published in official newspapers with a time limit after the cut-off date referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. Such an unsustainable state or unfair situation for affected municipalities should certainly be eliminated either by appropriate adoption of the proposed authentic interpretation, provided that this is not legally sustainable, and by amending the relevant provisions of the law by means of a rapid procedure. Interesting are the different views and understandings of the situation and the way such an anomaly is eliminated. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly considers that the proposed authentic interpretation is even inconsistent with the Slovenian Constitution and as such is not possible and that no mandatory interpretation is necessary. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is also of the same opinion, which argues that there is no need for interpretation because the law is clear enough. On the other hand, we have the diametric opposite opinion or conclusions of the Committee of the National Assembly on Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Commission of the State Council on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Well, now we're where there's no fly. On the one hand, the discriminatory situation, which is not sustainable, and on the other hand the opinion of lawyers, i.e. the competent profession, which does not see the problem and is crystal clear to them. As an inequitable and Member, I certainly represent the position of the first and the proposer, because this situation needs to be adequately addressed, even by the amendment of the law. Let me get this straight. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we will decide on our own conscience, in particular by removing the criminal situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Once again, a good-bye to everyone! If things were transparent, clear and simple, then in today's place, what causes dilemmas and problems in practice, they would not talk. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support the efforts of our fellow Member, Mr Gumzar, to adopt a mandatory interpretation and the situation, which is unclear, is finally settled. Certainly in life and in practice, when a decision was made, some spatial act was adopted on the municipal council, but not when, of course, it was administratively published in the official paper. All those involved in this in practice know that, at times, because of limited space, because of the delay with the early announcement or for any other reason, it is not possible to settle this formal matter when the municipal administration would have wanted it. The content of the explanation is also meaningful, for if anyone, then the municipalities must be able to dispose of and manage the premises, the lands of the fund and the countries in their territory. Therefore, at this moment and at this point, it seems to us that it is our decision to adopt an authentic interpretation of the law, the law, and the right thing to do in the practice of ambiguity and problems, for the benefit of all of us, and especially for the benefit of the local communities concerned, that we are fully settled. We will therefore support the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u64	A nice welcome once again on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats! The authentic interpretation of Article 16th of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is necessary because the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia does not wish to sign contracts for the transfer of unpaved building land to municipalities if they have adopted spatial acts by 20 July 2004, but considers that they are willing to sign contracts if the spatial act has been published by that date in the Official Journal. Although the deadline of 20 July 2004 was enacted on a proposal from the Government, i.e. on a proposal from the proposer, this position of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia surprises us. The publication of the spatial act shall always be published at least 15 days later, or within a similar period, if that period has also been set by the Government to amend the spatial acts by 20 July. Therefore, we feel that this date in the marriage is clear and that it is clear when the congregation also decided when a plot of land was to be built. This date shall be the adoption of this spatial act at a meeting of the Municipal Council. We believe that this is particularly important because it is not a relation to the third in land traffic, but rather a relationship between the country and the congregation. It is very clear that the municipality is devoting these lands to the adoption of its act at a meeting of the municipal council. However, if such land were to be sold on the market, i.e. to a third party, it would in any event be absolutely necessary to publish it in the Official Journal. We believe that the authentic interpretation is, in particular, possible because it resolves the relationship between the State and the municipality, but, given that the Legislative and Legal Service has given an opinion which suggests that there is also a possible non-conformity of the authentic interpretation with the legislation, the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests in that part relating to the date of application of the amendment of the spatial act should also be amended. Therefore, we will not oppose the adoption of an authentic interpretation in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation. Mr Silven Majhenič has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble. [[He's not here either.]] Mr. Bogdan Barovich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Milan Gumzar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. In fact, as we said in the LDS Club at the time of the presentation of our views that we will support this authentic explanation, I will also personally support it and, as a proponent, for the following reason in particular. It is true that the date is 20. Seven. 2004 when it was necessary to adopt and publish in the Official Journal, but quite a few municipalities in Slovenia were able to adopt their long-term plans by 20.7.2004 but could not publish them or publish them, given that they did not receive the decision or arrived too late by the Government. Otherwise, I've got a government decision ahead of me, with which she's 13. 7. One of the municipalities concluded that their act was in line with all the regulations in the country. Now I'm asking if he was 13. 7. a decision issued on how to adopt and publish it in the Official Journal by 20.7. So this authentic explanation is absolutely necessary. On the other hand, it must also be said that the land that had social property status in 1993 was all owned by the congregations at that time. And it is these lands that the local communities or municipalities have transferred free of charge back to the Fund of Agricultural Lands of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the current agricultural land law, that all land that loses the status of the building land must be transferred free of charge to the Fund of Agricultural Lands. However, with land transfers or with this law something is wrong, it must also be said that in these days, after the power of the Ombudsman, which was leased by the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, certain hunting families in Slovenia receive a judgment on behalf of the people and are also deprived of those lands that they purchased in 1985 and later from natural persons and were, of course, unable to register as property rights in 1985, but were registered as social property because these societies or hunting families were social property. In order to allow the municipalities to reach these building sites as soon as possible, and in some way to encourage the sale of these land or to provide these land for new industrial installations and for something else, this identical interpretation should be adopted today. Otherwise, as a proposalr, in some way, I am not afraid that we would not accept this and also thank all the parliamentary groups for their understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u67	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic. [[He's quitting.]] Does a representative of the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a word as a proponent, Mr. Gumzar? [[No, no, ……]] All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I guess not. I'm concluding. The assembly will decide on the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation and on the text of an authentic interpretation in accordance with the time-frame of the meeting of the assembly today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. POSITION OF THE DAY’S LINE — ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT LAW FOR THE SLOVENIA TO PROVIDING FINANCIAL STABILITY IN THE EUROPEAN AREA — The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mrs Matey Vraničnik, State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u68	Mr President, honourable Members, Members! You have before you a bill that will allow Slovenia to participate in a specific financial assistance mechanism within the euro area. The bill addresses two issues and Slovenia's participation in a special financial society set up by all euro area Member States, while at the same time allowing the granting of a guarantee for the successful obligations of that company, if and when it comes to them. I believe that we are well aware of the economic reasons for establishing the mechanism. At the beginning of this year, when one of the euro area Member States was in financial trouble, the financial markets immediately began to search for the next victim. And Europe has been forced to face the fact that unfortunately it does not have an effective mechanism for possible assistance to the countries of the euro area. We know that a specific mechanism for balance-of-payments assistance is available to countries that have not yet taken over the euro. In fact, Hungary, Latvia and Romania currently receive such aid. However, there is no institutional solution to help the euro area Member States, which means that an institutional solution has yet to be provided. In doing so, we are faced with several dilemmas. We could try to provide assistance in the same way as in the case of Greece. This would mean the immediate and direct obligation of national budgets on the line of loans granted. We could set up a new company with relatively high capital, which would guarantee a first-class rating, but this would require immediate payments from national budgets in the form of capital injections. Third option, we could choose a third form, and this is before you, this is a special company with relatively low capital and with the guarantee of the euro area Member States for its potential obligations. Under the circumstances, the euro area Member States unanimously endorsed such an approach and, in accordance with the Law on the participation of the National Assembly and the Government in European matters, the proposal was also made known to the National Assembly and did not oppose the chosen route. In order to implement the decision taken in practice today is before you a proposal for a law. This is governed by Slovenia’s capital share in a company of 0.47 %, which is Slovenia’s share in the capital of the European Central Bank. In order to ensure financial stability in the euro area, the company will lease loans, issue debt securities and make other transactions with the euro area Member States guarantee a total of up to EUR 440 billion. Each euro area Member State will issue a guarantee for those financing instruments in total up to its share calculated in accordance with the share of the capital of the European Central Bank, which in the case of Slovenia means a guarantee of EUR 2 billion and EUR 73 million. In conclusion, let me mention some of the concerns raised by the debate at the Committee on Finance, in particular as regards the possible constitutional dispute in the bill. I would like to reiterate the fact that the proposed guarantee, according to the applicant, is fully in line with the requirements of Article 149 of the Constitution. The purpose of the guarantee is clear, the beneficiary is clearly defined, the period by which the guarantee can be committed and the purposes for which it can be used. In particular, the exact amount of the guarantee in question is recorded. This is not to be overlooked by the fact that the law in many cases is analogous to the anti-crisis measures in the form of guarantees, as provided for in Article 86 of the Public Finance Act. If those measures were to ensure the stability of our banking system, we are now facing measures to ensure the stability of the euro area. If we do not want to raise doubts about Slovenia's commitment to the common policy of the euro area, I propose that the National Assembly support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Member, Mrs Renati Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Dear President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At its 25th urgent meeting on 8 July 2010, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a law on the guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure financial stability in the euro area as a work force. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which examined the proposal in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and in the legislative and technical context and forwarded comments on the need to assess the compatibility of the text with the Constitution. In doing so, the Legislative and Legal Service notes, inter alia, that in the case at issue, its 149th Article is essential, under which both the State’s and the guarantees are granted solely on the basis of law. In addition to that service, it points out that the guarantee should be made for each funding programme, for individual financing instruments outside the funding programme and for financial transactions, while in the proposal for a non-specific obligation to be issued by the Government, which will only be notified to the National Assembly on a quarterly basis, even though it should adopt a guarantee law. Taking into account the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service, the coalition groups tabled amendments on 8 July 2010 to Articles 3, 4, and 8 and to the title of the legislative proposal. Various views and opinions were presented in the opening of the hearing, but the Committee did not adopt the proposed decision to postpone the treatment of the law in question. According to the representative of the Government, the legal text represents a security network of members who would need assistance or financial resources for normal operation, so the necessary legal procedures should be completed as soon as possible, as Slovenia would be excluded from the possibility of receiving the proposed aid if there was a lack of support between euro area members. According to the opinion expressed, the law is not contrary to the Constitution, nor to other provisions, but is tantamount to other such solutions. The proposed amendments of the coalition groups supported by the proposer provide for a single guarantee through the legislative text. This guarantees the company whose shareholders are euro area Member States for each obligation and will be implemented by the company in order to finance the Member State of that area that would be in difficulty. At the same time, in the manner described, the text contains all the essential elements of a specific guarantee obligation. At the time of its consideration of the individual articles, the Committee adopted amendments to Article 4 of the legislative proposal, adopted amendments to the coalition groups by 3, 4, 8 and to the title of the legislative proposal. The amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4 was not accepted by the Committee. In conclusion, on the basis of Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on all the articles of the legislative proposal and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which includes all the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is also an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Villa Trofenik has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u72	Nice greetings to all present! Thank you for your word. The proposed guarantee law of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure financial stability in the euro area poses a reactive risk that some of the euro area members would not be able to obtain sufficient funding on the market. To this end, euro area members set up a special company with founding shares proportionate to the share of capital in the European Bank. In this way, 440 billion euros will be provided for guarantees for borrowing loans and issuing debt securities. With this instrument, the euro area members want to prevent a negative chain effect that could also affect Slovenia. From this point of view, this law is not disputed because the negative chain effects would seriously affect Slovenia, as the euro area is key to Slovenian exports. In addition, the aforementioned Slovenian mechanism also allows access to financial markets under favourable conditions. Slovenia's entry into the euro area has undoubtedly been useful, so Slovenia cannot afford not to enter the mechanism in spite of many concerns. However, this does not, of course, justify the adoption from a constitutional point of view of potentially controversial law. The law under consideration, in a simplified manner, confers on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia the power of the National Assembly to act by law in accordance with Article 149 of the Constitution on the guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia. As this fundamental dilemma on the compatibility of the proposed law with the Constitution remains even after the amendments adopted by the Committee on Finance, Members of the Parliament will indeed decide on the support or non-support of the law at their own discretion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In May 2010, the Heads of State or Government at the meeting of the euro area Member States committed themselves to establishing a specific mechanism to provide financial assistance to euro area Member States if some of them could not obtain sufficient financial resources on the market. Among other things, it was agreed that the euro area Member States would set up a specific company that would be able to rent loans or issue debt securities with a view to providing financial assistance in the form of loans to the euro area Member State with the guarantee of the other euro area Member States totalling up to EUR 440 billion. In order to borrow and issue corporate debt securities, the euro area Member States will issue guarantees up to their share calculated in accordance with the share of the European Central Bank’s fixed capital. The share of the Republic of Slovenia in this guarantee mechanism is 0.4711%, which means a guarantee of up to €2 billion, which we estimate is a significant overburden for the Republic of Slovenia. Let me give you a few examples, for example. Two billion euros is 15% of existing public debt. Two billion euros is 5% of GDP, two billion euros is 20% of the 2010 budget. Unfortunately, we do not know what will happen in the future with regard to the Member States of the European Monetary Union. We do not know what will happen in Spain, what will happen in Portugal and so on, so in countries that are often referred to as risky and problematic in the field of public finances. In order to prevent such situations, the European Union has written down clear rules that each country must adhere to and conditions that must be met. These rules have probably not been written in such a way, and it would be appropriate to take into account and that each Member State seeks to comply with these conditions and rules consistently and to ensure that they are respected. Slovenia has been fighting this crisis all along to comply with all these rules and to ensure these conditions. We will make the most of this common currency, according to our assessment, just when we make our own home fiscal arrangements to ensure the stability of the common European currency, but not that we may, in order to help others, put ourselves in a position where we ourselves do not have a way out. This is what we fear in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, especially in view of the fiscal situation, when we do not know for ourselves what the future lies ahead. A while ago, we easily confirmed the EUR 400 million guarantee for Greece, which was in a severe financial crisis due to our own stupidity and, in particular, to the irresponsibility of the common euro area. On the other hand, our, i.e. Slovenian, stupidity is not ready to cover. In the NLB case, even because of the stupidity that's been happening in the bank, I don't know who else to leave this most important bank to strangers. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will therefore oppose the bill because we believe that the burden of two billion potential obligations for the Republic of Slovenia is simply too high. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings are also valid for colleagues and colleagues! Both DeSUS Members and probably everyone else would have preferred not to have laws with such content before them. I am also sure you agree with me that we would rather see that there would not be any such situation as is the reason for such a reaction from the Member States of the European Union. However, the situation as it is and the result is our duty, given the obligations we have towards the European Union at the time of our entry. It is therefore our duty that the Republic of Slovenia also contribute its share to ensure the financial stability of the area in which we entered. In good and bad, i.e. as a marriage based on a free decision, we have freely decided to be a member of the European Union on a mutual emotional commitment. You believe that we are emotionally committed when it comes to providing guarantees at such astronomical height, of course, knowing our public financial situation, based on mutual respect. The question of who respects or disrespects someone is here, especially when it comes to covering the real situation of the one to help him. Here I am specifically referring to, nicely said, the Hellenic Republic that we do not talk about respect for the commitments that each member of the EU has made at the time of entry, including respect for the guidelines, EU directives, the Maastricht criteria, the care for a stable economy, the maintenance of a macroeconomic balance, the balanced fiscal policy and the ability to respond based on understanding, trust and mutual assistance, whether it is mutual or one-off assistance. In short, let me read an article that regulates this by marriage, which is based on "the free decision to enter into a marriage on mutual emotional ties, mutual respect, understanding, trust and mutual assistance in good and bad". I must point out that, while the consequences do not oblige us to give our consent to this proposal, the coalition treaty that we have signed does not mean the facts that all our citizens feel on their shoulders, as the belt is being tightened to avoid the worse consequences of the financial crisis. With the budget, we clarify public use, raise excise duties and place them on the shoulders of people and the economy. There is also a tendency to reduce health rights. The Labour Rights Deprivation Act has already been incorporated into the legislative procedure. There is no movement in the social and protection of the elderly. There's an increase in rent. We are almost out of the middle layer of the population, because they have jumped into a lower layer, not to talk about social security not only for older people but also for workers, about the unemployment rate and could also mention it. I'm pretty sure there's not a hero around here who'd be downhearted about all this. But there's another naked fact. As a member of the euro area countries, the Republic of Slovenia is also committed to actively entering the process of ensuring financial stability and, unfortunately, we must have this naked fact before our eyes when we decide to support this law. What if, God helps, after the flashback, comes the cashing of this guarantee or the guarantee that we have given to Greece? We have no answer to this question from DeSUS Members, because we have no idea what would have happened if this had happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr Zmago Jelinčič has the floor to the nobles on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u78	Good afternoon. It makes me laugh when I hear the crying of the coalition Members, who will finally be happy to confirm and unanimously confirm this law, which is so damn bad for Slovenia. The law is inconsistent with the Constitution, it is inconsistent with the law on public finances, it is inconsistent with the bond law, so as not to say that it is also inconsistent with the law on the implementation of the budget. In short, we are playing with the money of the Slovenians, we are playing with the fate of the Slovenian people, and thus we are proving that they do not understand at our financial ministry what it is. They don't understand the term "guarantee." Prosecution is the most distasteful term in all bond and property law, for marriage is the one who pays the sins of the one who cannot repay the loan. Only an ass can sign such a thin contract that one who has been in Greece since 1982, or as Spain and Portugal since 1986 or later, Italy and another country will cheat on the European Union, steal from its budget, and now it will become honest overnight only because Slovenia has signed the guarantee. You're full of shit! We have already signed a EUR 400 million loan for Greece, we will now sign it, I am sure that this will be accepted and that the coalition will be happy, even though it is whining and crying, we will confirm it, we will sign the guarantee for EUR 2 billion 73 million. Greece will not be able to repay the EUR 400 million because it has never returned anything. And since Slovenia is a wedding for Greece, Slovenia will take EUR 400 million from this guarantee fund and give back EUR 400 million. But these EUR 400 million they will return will not return Slovenia, but will return Europe. Europe, however, will consider whether Slovenia will return all EUR 400 million or split and return Slovenia, I don't know, 10% of that amount. And so Slovenia will wipe out 400 million under its nose, and Greece will pay off its debt without a dime, without one hundred of its own stakes. That's great. That's great. Would it not have been better if this money had been given to pensioners who had been promised a 1,000-euro pension by coalition gentlemen and who today cannot survive with 200 or 300 euros of pension? No, we need to show how good we are to all the Gypsies, to all the possible deviant countries in Europe that have been stealing for decades and decades, and now we will reward them. Of course, Slovenians, fools, we're gonna pay for these funds and throw money out the window like we don't know how much. Of course, some coalition gentlemen have no idea how much and will have more, because no one will step on their fingers. And they're allowed all the shit, all the thieving. And I'm guessing this is about one theft at the state level. Who dares our citizens to steal two billion euros and more? Coalition. And she doesn't care. Unfortunately, however, Slovenian taxpayers and citizens do not understand that they are being drawn by gentlemen as one pig. Awful. I don't think that's acceptable, and we're not going to support it. Surely this will be supported by all those who cry out over problems, but let’s give them whatever they want, and they may give us something back, perhaps someone will get a bottle of rope so that they can get over this loss a little easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u79	Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Let's say good-bye again to everyone! Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, secretary of state and co-worker! I have to say, we've heard a lot of interesting things in these positions, and one would say, but it's not true when one listens to all this. I am sure that everyone today would be much more pleased and happy if we did not have to talk about this guarantee in the National Assembly if there were no problems in the world if there were no recession. But since problems are, they need to be solved. And this bill is one of the tools with which the problems in the world, in Europe and also in us and in us, ourselves, are being saved. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we will support the proposal for a law on guarantees to ensure financial stability in the euro area, because in our opinion this law concerns the strategic issue of Slovenia as members of the European Union and the euro area. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we would like to point out that this law is not only about the issue of Slovenia, although it must be and is at the forefront of us, but about the stability of the entire euro area, which, together with these guarantees, establishes a mechanism of exit in force with other members. As agreed in the Council of the European Union on 10 May 2010, the euro area Member States will set up a specific company that can rent loans or issue debt securities in order to provide financial assistance in the form of loans to a Member State. There is no legal basis in European legislation, so we need to create internal legal conditions for the Member States, which we will do by adopting the proposed law. Among other things, this newly established loan company provides for the capital participation of the Republic of Slovenia. Each Member State has a capital share in the company, representing 0.47% for Slovenia, i.e. the same share as we have in the European Central Bank. This newly established European Financial Stability Facility will deal with a total of €440 billion in euro area Member States to ensure financial stability. For Slovenia, this means a maximum of EUR 2 billion. Following negotiations with the European Commission and cooperation with the European Development Bank, this company will conclude a loan agreement with the country requesting the loan. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that the most important safeguards for us in this type of mechanism are, as it is stated, that the funding programme is unanimously adopted by the guarantor countries and that decisions on individual guarantees for the financing instrument within the funding framework are taken by the guarantor countries with a two-thirds majority. As it has already been heard today by the various populace and those who appeal to the negative feelings of citizens and citizens, of course, it is not a dilapidated menu, but, unfortunately, a necessary mechanism, which has many protectors. In this mechanism, however, it is particularly essential that the Member State receiving the loan from the newly established company commit itself to implementing a strict economic policy programme. In this regard, at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we particularly call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to be extremely precise, consistent and strict when confirming such programmes, because we believe that countries can only fully remedy their public financial problems through their own reforms. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, however, we believe that the mechanism represents a short or medium-term measure to stabilise capital markets and prevent further shocks. We also believe that this action must be followed even more significantly. [[...]] [[End of discussion warning sign]] changes at the level of the European Union or the Eurogroup. Therefore, this measure, which is unfortunately necessary, still requires much work, especially caution and wisdom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! The collapse of Lehman Brothers in the US financial market has left far greater consequences than many expected, not only in the real estate market, but also in the financial markets of the world and, consequently, in the European financial market. In Europe, this is mainly demonstrated by the decline in the value of the euro and the financial difficulties to finance the needs of the country and to stabilise its financial potentials. Access to financial resources in the world and Europe is becoming more difficult, but if the country succeeds in obtaining new financial resources, they are generally extremely expensive, and this therefore poses even greater problems for countries in financial and economic difficulties. The law on the guarantee of financial stability in the euro area is in fact the law on the preservation and stabilisation of the euro. In fact, this law seeks to restore confidence in the euro as a stable and secure currency due to the Greek debt crisis, which was the first among the European countries to feel all the dimensions of this financial and economic crisis, as the financial market situation is already showing a disproportionate increase in the debt burden of some euro area Member States and there are market risks of indebtedness to a larger number of countries. By establishing such a mechanism, the euro area Member States will prevent possible chain financial impact that would have a negative impact on Slovenia as well. It is worth noting that in the event of difficulties with access to financial markets, Slovenia would also be entitled to loans under this mechanism. The euro area for Slovenia is a key export market and the possible destabilisation of the area of the common currency would have a negative impact on the small and open-ended Slovenian economy. Slovenia depends on foreign financial resources, so we are sensitive to changing the conditions of funding in international financial markets, especially in the context of increasing the debt problems of some euro area countries. For this reason, it is necessary to adopt a proposal for a law allowing the Republic of Slovenia to participate in the establishment of a specific mechanism with the financial stability of the euro area, together with the other euro area Member States. On the basis of the decision of the euro Member States, the euro area Member States will first acquire an equity and capital share in a newly established financial company which, in order to ensure financial stability in the euro area, will borrow loans, issue debt securities or enter into other transactions with the guarantee of the euro area Member States. The guarantee provided by this law is intended for a newly established society. In view of the first-class insurance provided by the euro area Member States’ State guarantee, it is envisaged that the company in the financial markets will acquire funds in the form of loans to the Member State of the euro area in financial difficulties by borrowing and issuing debt securities and by entering into other transactions. At the same time, the Member State receiving the loan from the company will undertake to comply with the strict economic policy programme adapted to each individual case to be drawn up together with the European Commission, in cooperation with the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, with which the recipient country will also have to agree. Therefore, nothing will be left to chance, but will seriously interfere with the internal organisation of each country, the beneficiaries of the aid from this fund, which will have to comply with its economic policies with the requirements of the lender, with a view to ensuring that those who provide guarantees do not recover or increase the security of those guarantees. While the debate on the Committee on Finance raised a dilemma as to whether there were more guarantees or one. We believe that the text of the law and the additions we have adopted on the Committee on Finance makes it absolutely clear that this is one guarantee to a newly established company, which will later be financed by the Member States, if necessary. However, the use of this guarantee financial capital is successful according to needs. We can hope that these needs will remain as low as possible until the end of this law, which is up to 30. 6. 2013 as defined in the Guarantee Act. With the participation of the working group, the new financial company will draw up a financing programme containing key financial conditions, i.e. interest rate, maturity, currency under which the company can rent loans, issue debt securities or conclude other transactions necessary to obtain funds to finance loans, in accordance with a loan contract or financing programme. The conditions laid down in each funding programme will be comparable to those laid down in the loan agreement or envisaged to pay individual instalments under the loan contract, in the light of the market situation at that time. In view of all this, because there is a need to stress confidence in the euro and a stable financial environment in the euro area, the Social Democrats Group will also support the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u84	All in attendance, all in attendance! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we share an opinion with those who express the view that the law on the guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure financial stability in the European Union cannot be supported or even more, we believe that this law must be rejected. The law must be rejected for both formal and substantive reasons. We are talking about guarantees totalling EUR 2 billion 73 million, a quarter of the state budget on the revenue side, if we are to say more clearly. For formal reasons, the law cannot be supported because it is in direct contravention of the constitutional provisions and the provisions of the laws governing public finances and the Law on the implementation of the 2010 budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution and legislation clearly and unequivocally state that all guarantees must be decided by the National Assembly and by law. In this particular case, we are not witnessing this, and all individual guarantees will be approved by the Government, and the National Assembly will only be informed about these individual elements, but will not decide on them. For these formal reasons, as well as for substantive reasons, it would be right to adopt a decree of this law. This has not been adopted, the law is proposed by emergency procedure. Let's ask ourselves why. I fear that there is no way for us not to be approached by a new country, a new Greece, but it is obvious that this scale, which will have to be provided in the case of this new sick member of the European Union, is significantly greater than in the case of Greece and therefore probably the mechanism used in the case of Greece with direct aid of around €80 billion, is not sufficient. The European Union is addressing public finances issues in individual Member States of the European Union in the wrong way, rather than in order to cure the causes and cure the disease that has caused the euro area to suffer problems in individual Member States, it is easier to suffer only from some aspirin, but we know that the head is already in severe pain in several Member States of the European Union. In addition to Greece, these are Portugal, Spain, Italy, etc. Clearly, the way used in this law is not appropriate, nor is it just. The model used by this participatory role of individual Member States of the European Union in the share taken in this case does not take into account the development of individual countries and does not respect the standard in individual countries, nor does it take into account how and how individual countries have adhered to the rules of the game laid down by the European Union. Slovenia must have been one of those countries that respected the rules to the greatest extent possible. Nevertheless, it will have to contribute in proportion to all those who are part of the problem and not part of the solution. Slovenia is not in an enviable financial situation. Especially in the last year and a half. The government's debt has doubled. It already has nearly €12 billion, increasing at a rate of €40 per second. We have quite a few patients in this country. One of the biggest is the largest state bank of Nova Ljubljanska Bank, where we have heard a few days ago that 250 million euros is projected for recapitalisation only to drop into the sea. Apparently, 10% of the portfolio is problematic. In this short term, you have approved a number of guarantees in the National Assembly, only to the Court of Justice of around EUR 500 million. There is a law on additional guarantees for the highway programme, EUR 300 million, with these funds largely not earmarked for the necessary infrastructure facilities, but dedicated to the part called electronicisation or satellite tolling. One of my fellow Members said before the day, "It would be better if we passed the Ultra Aid Act and allocated 100 million euros to it, and we will still put 68 million euros into this account." Here comes the guarantee law for TES 6 at the rate of the circus of billions of euros and so on. In short, there is nothing promising about the situation in which we accept EUR 2 billion 73 million, contrary to the applicable constitution and the guarantee law for the European mechanism. The only reason why this law should be supported is because of the reason given by my predecessor, "and Slovenia will also be able to benefit from this fund". That's a bad reason. The opposition believes that Slovenia should never allow itself to be in a position to interfere with this mechanism. There's also a reason to reject this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u85	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you very much. We have tabled an amendment to Article 4 in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. In doing so, we wish to at least partially patch up the unconstitutionality and illegality of this proposal, which is on the table. It is logical to conclude that the guarantee laws are complementary to one basic document, to one contract, to a concrete project with which the State then enters as a marriage and makes it possible to finance and implement something. In this particular case, we do not really know who we are giving the guarantee to or why. We know that there is a company here that will deal with financial stability in the euro area, but we do not know, without any country or country for which specific purposes this guarantee will be necessary, because only once will each funding programme set a specific objective where this money goes and for specific purposes. I am sure that neither the Constitution nor the Public Finance Act do allow such an approach. This has already been a lot of talk on the Committee on Finance. The legislative and legal service of this Parliament has put forward an extremely clear rejection position. The government, headed by the secretary of state, was defending its right and saying that everything was fine and right. I am only a little more confident of Parliament's legislative and legal service than of the receptive and law-abiding lawyers in the Government, which is why I am fully convinced that this solution, when we are essentially making a guarantee for some mechanism as such, to a society which will be in charge of implementing this mechanism, is, of course, contrary to our Constitution, which, by the way, is extremely strict and difficult in this area. I mean, Slovenians, we're probably afraid of a variety of guarantees, credits like twisted ropes, because we have negative experiences from history. We know that our ex-countries have been in debt on behalf of the Yugoslav common country and beyond and, of course, we knew very little about this as a part of the country at the time, let alone to make a decision. Therefore, in the Slovenian Constitution we have a relatively strict regulation on State guarantees and the only opinion, the interpretation of this Article of the Constitution was given by a prominent financier, Mr Arhar, who also made it very clear that guarantees can, of course, be given by law, which must, of course, be bound to a very clear, very well-known project, which already has all the circumstances and all the frameworks and, finally, the detailed purpose. We, once again, are making a guarantee under this law for, I don't know, the financial stability of the euro area, whatever that means. And others will decide about our money and we may get a headache when we actually find out why and where our guarantees go, as of course the common guarantees of the euro area. So with this amendment, we want to meet this gap in the proposal, so that, of course, every time a tranche is approved in Parliament by law. So, specifically, if it turns out that the next one is for Greece, for example, Spain, I speculate that the Spanish as world champions should forgive me. If Spain is on this list, it is right that this Parliament grant guarantees to that country when it is clear what the funding programme is, what are the details of this solution to the problems of this particular country. Therefore, we have proposed in Article 4 an amendment that this National Assembly approves each time by means of a guarantee law, which is in accordance with the Constitution, and which is ultimately also in the spirit of implementing this mechanism. This makes us much more transparent and, finally, we also guarantee that Parliament's constitutional position and that Parliament's competence to decide on such matters in this Chamber. In fact, I cannot understand how the ruling coalition, at least this vote on the Committee on Finance, has shown that it gives some kind of nancial power to the Government when this two billion-dollar guarantee framework is adopted, to find out and, in some way, manage the game of guarantees on individual projects of this financial mechanism. This is according to my assessment in disagreement when we are talking about the boundaries between the powers of the Government and the National Assembly, because the Constitution is clearly the first to allow the guarantee only on the basis of law. And the law, we know that it is accepted by the National Assembly and that no law can be passed by the Government, can only accept the proposal and submit it to Parliament. Of course, this greater caution in the provision of guarantees has also been driven by poor practices, both in the euro area and probably in the European Union. Indeed, all the new candidate Member States, both for the euro area and for the European Union, have passed a few paths before they have met all the conditions and have been subject to some other strict mechanisms of financial discipline and responsibility for public finances, as is now the case with some old Member States. As a rule, these old Member States are richer, with a higher standard, not least with far higher wages in the European Union's single internal market. In short, the purchasing power of these people is greater and, as a rule, these countries are also much more indebted and in some major deficits than is the case, let's say, in Slovenia and some others who are now struggling to enter the euro area. We have a significantly lower standard as well as significantly lower personal income. And we are now wondering whether, without a thorough analysis of each individual case, a country that has been implementing so far has taken all measures to stabilise public finances in the euro area and even wider, so can this country now be involved in financial mechanisms and assistance to countries that can be very carefree from all these rules in the past and live on a much larger footing than the average Slovenian. This also raises the question of some responsibility to our people, to our taxpayers and to all those who will pay their wages for this guarantee, because the country – what is the state? We're taxpayers. We will have to repay and repay these guarantees sooner or later. The question is whether it is right and fair and whether it is not necessary to discuss each such case separately in this Parliament within the framework of an individual guarantee, so that we can finally pour ourselves a pure wine, ourselves and our people. I believe that our amendment is going in this direction to deal more responsibly with public finances and guarantees. Earlier, in a presentation of the Group's positions, counterpart Cernač said how many guarantees we have already made and how many are being announced. We're working with this cash register of ours, as if this money would never have to be returned. We are faced with this demographic trend that there will probably be less and less taxpayers. The ones who are going to be hanging on these hay taxes, more and more. Therefore, I ask how we will finance all these heavy burdens of public finances, if we really act so carelessly, if there is a mechanism here, we are part of the team, part of the euro area, we must go along. I agree, let's study, let's be part of the team, but let's be primarily responsible for our own people and taxpayers. Therefore, each mechanism, each scheme, is examined to the point of precision before we go and before taxpayers are burdened for the future. That's, like, some red thread, that's the point of this amendment. If anything is wrong with the Government under this amendment, probably because the procedure allows it, we can still complete it. But I ask the government: "Why is this solution not appropriate?".. We can give a clear signal by law that Slovenia is part of this mechanism. At the same time, we will give a clear signal to Slovenia as such that we will discuss this in Parliament at any time and approve the guarantee, or not, from case to case. I think that's the least we could ask for. And I really don't understand the government that it's not going to go to the position of both the Legal and Legal Service and, finally, the opposition. And if Prime Minister Pahor really meant it yesterday when he was predicting some kind of cooperation, some kind of search for solutions, yes, where there is no better case than finding common solutions. In the opposition, we have repeatedly told ourselves what we want and what we imagine in this law, but we have not received a single phone call from the President's office or from the Ministry of Finance to harmonise such an important thing as a guarantee for 2 billion euros. I hope you're not looking for a guarantee as to whether we're going to vaccinate dogs, I don't know, once a year or once every three quarters of a year. This is important, but probably much less than the guarantee for 2 billion euros. So, smart, I'd say, in the head and a little more responsible to it. Of course, our decision to support this solution will depend very much on the Government's position and support for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u87	Madam Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Allow me to answer some of the questions and views expressed so far in the debate. To begin with, as I have already said on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we oppose or do not support the proposed amendment. The proposed amendment constitutes an extension of the approval procedure of the individual guarantee tranche and constitutes a derogation from the practice so far in similar cases. It is also not a negligible fact that, in the event that each individual tranche would be conditional upon a decision by the national Parliament, this would encourage the borrowing of credits for the company. Once again, we give guarantees to society and not to individual Member States in difficulty. Non-compliance with existing practice. In the introduction, I drew attention to article 86a of the Public Finance Act. This 86.a. was adopted at the end of 2008, just as the former government took over the new government. The bill was proposed by the previous government and was confirmed in the National Assembly after the appointment of the new government. Let me point out that Article 86a of the Public Finance Act provides a guarantee of EUR 12 billion. In accordance with Article 86a, the Government shall have the power to use or approve a tranche of EUR 12 billion in respect of the financial stability needs of the Slovenian financial market. Just as in the case of this proposal, even under Article 86a of the Public Finance Act, the guarantee given on this basis is not included in the scope of the full guarantees provided for by the Law on the Enforcement of the Budget. A few more words concerning the constitutionality or non-constitutionality of the proposed law. The Constitution states in Article 149 that loans or guarantees under the burden of the State may be granted only on the basis of law. The law is ahead of us and this bill introduces a guarantee of a maximum of two billion and 73 million euros. In Article 4, however, we provide that the use of the funds on the basis of the guarantee has been agreed on by the Committee on Finance, the Government approves the individual tranche, and in this case not alone, but on the basis of the Law on Cooperation between the Government and the National Assembly, the State Assembly participates in the decision. Nevertheless, the proposed law also makes it possible to cooperate with the National Assembly in further steps, not to mention any other steps that will be necessary and which will also ensure the reimbursement of a given guarantee or payment by the company itself and will be harmonised for a single tranche at the level of European institutions. We stress our responsibility to citizens or to Slovenian taxpayers. It is also likely that responsibility for the common currency falls within this responsibility, although not directly within the budget resources, but without a strong European currency, of which Slovenia is also an integral part, including the responsibilities of Slovenian taxpayers, whether citizens or businesses are not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u89	Who wants to discuss it? Check-in is on. Mr. Bogdan Chapich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. The amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party alone will not be supported. We have already had a similar or the same amendment on the committee, and we have not supported it, especially because the arguments were, why not and how to change the law in Articles 3 and 4 were stronger than this argument, mainly because we are not now providing the guarantee, but we are giving a guarantee to one organisation, one company, one institution, which we are also establishing by this law. In fact, this law has three parts, one could say, the first part is the establishment of a company, the second part is the capitalisation of this company and the third part is the guarantee capital that we are transferring to this society, so that it can make the euro more stable with its financial mechanisms than it is now, and so that the euro area, whose use and responsibility for using it is also more stable in Slovenia, will not be fluctuated. The second point is that we have had some comments on how to involve the participation of the National Assembly in the use of these guarantees. And I think that the doctrine we have introduced in Article 4 of the Act is that the use of funds based on guarantees under this Act is approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for each funding programme, which is unanimously adopted by the participating euro area Member States. When adopting each programme, the financing of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly shall be co-operated in accordance with the Cooperation Act between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly in EU matters. The resolution and stabilisation of the euro currency is an EU matter and I think that this is the right thing to do and how it can be co-operated. There are at least two committees involved in this process, and the Committee on Finance, as an interested working body and the Committee on the Affairs of the European Union as a parent working body, which gives consent and opinions to the proposed things, so that in this case Parliament is not excluded, on the contrary, we have already adopted some guarantees in the National Assembly, and I think that for two or two billion, which are, by content, these guarantee laws, roughly the same as this, we have approved the quota, we have approved the purpose of these funds, which is also defined by this law, not by whom and in what way. We authorised a financial institution, a state-owned bank, a SID bank to carry out certain things, nor will the Government do this but of course work an authorized financial institution. In this law, because it is a significant asset and because it is an asset within the European Union, we still have the option or we have both the Government and the National Assembly involved to co-decision and decide each time on the financing programme. Therefore, it is not appropriate to support this amendment because the content of this amendment has already been introduced into the law. The second is whether we are all satisfied that we have come to this and what are the chances that this will not happen. It's true, we all wish it hadn't actually happened. But the harsh reality and the difference between the fact that we do not need today and between the Greek country's scenario or any other that is needed to get this aid is extremely small and, of course, the programme will have to be prepared very quickly. The mechanisms set out in this law, what must be, I believe and believe that the Group of Social Democrats is strong enough that the purpose of these funds will be precisely determined to go into the right thing and that, of course, this guarantee will be only as a guarantee, but not what will of course have to be paid. Of course, there is always a possibility that some guarantee may be cashed out. But, of course, the commitment, as set out in Article 3, will be cashed out, I think that 7 or 8 if the Republic of Slovenia fulfils the guarantee obligation under this Act, it will receive a regression claim to the company, i.e. to the company which is granting the guarantee, not to the State, and this company will, of course, have to have these regressive claims. So it is clear from the law itself that there is one guarantee and, of course, I firmly believe that it is satisfied with the Article of the Constitution, which says that, of course, the Republic of Slovenia can provide guarantees based on law and we now have such a law before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u91	Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues! I will support this amendment because it is right for each individual case to make a separate decision in the National Assembly in order to make a specific decision on each guarantee given by the Slovenian State to a country in the European Union that is in difficulty. But it's not that there's some brittle opportunity for a government for a whole of 2 billion, for more than 2 billion. I think we're going over the edge, acting irresponsible, easy not to say nonchalant. It is 2 billion potential potential liabilities, which the Republic of Slovenia, of course, assumes, are obligations for our budget. I don't know how we're going to settle this, if, of course, God forbid, any of the countries that will receive this guarantee would not be able to return it. I'm afraid what happens if we don't get the 400 million, about the 400 million we gave to Greece. I can't imagine what's gonna happen. When we talk about our problems, for example, about the New Ljubljana Bank, we find one hundred and one reason why we would not do anything to the bank to keep this most important bank in Slovenian hands. We also hear many criticisms about the debt or, if you like, the guarantees issued by the Republic of Slovenia for the construction of the highway cross. Then about building the highway cross, of course, everyone can have their own opinions, but highways we have, they are here and they give development, they give road safety and a lot of other, inhabited landscape and so on, not to mention. So in these cases we know why we betrayed them, we know exactly why, it was the purpose, and that's why we got what we got. We got something out of this. In this particular case, however, we do not really know anything except that we are fighting for common stability, i.e. for the stability of the euro's common currency. We don't know anything else. Nothing. We know there's going to be a company there that's going to be used in one way or another, and I don't know why we're doing this. There's no need. I will point out once again that this guarantee is actually a month in the water or, if you like, a Slovenian moon in the water, because we will never be able to realize it if these obligations from this title come into the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, 2 billion commitments to the budget, I think that means bankruptcy of the country. Responsibilities to the common currency. Yeah. Definitely. We all wear it. Both the Republic of Slovenia and Greece as well as all members of the euro area. This euro area has precise rules, conditions that we must all meet together. In fact, in recent times since the crisis in this Parliament and the Government, we have been doing nothing but satisfying these conditions, these criteria in which we have all committed ourselves together when we enter into the common area, that is, the euro area, to do everything we can to satisfy this. And in good faith, we thought that the other countries of the euro area were doing the same. I guess that's not the case. This is reflected in the case of Greece, and this is the only case at this point in time, in which the case broke out at the bottom of the court. We don't know how things are going to go any further. We don't know if any other country is going this way. And just because we don't know anything, it would be right — I agreed with my colleague Barovic's proposal on the committee — to wait a little longer with this law or with this guarantee, because we are simply in no hurry to go anywhere, and we could wait a month, two or three without any problem, and then decide when we would know much more about many things, including what would happen in Spain and what would happen in other countries. So I ask you again, let's stop the horses, let's stop this wagon as soon as possible, because if we don't stop it, this wagon will really stop in Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u93	Mr. Zvonko Blackach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u94	The purpose of this amendment is not merely a formal nature to eliminate unconstitutionality and illegality, unless this amendment is adopted and the law will be adopted. The purpose of this amendment is also substantive. In this context, Slovenia is showing some good will as a member of the Euro Area for participation in a mechanism, but specific decisions are taken by the National Assembly when specific decisions are taken on the table and not by the Government. Because without this amendment, this law gives the National Assembly a thin menu to the Government to decide as it wishes, contrary to the provisions of the Constitution and the legislation in force. The Constitution is very clear when it says that guarantees are approved by law. And it is not true that in this law we are talking about one guarantee, the whole dictatorship is talking about guarantees, all the articles, if you read them, talk about guarantees, and even if we ignore this nomotechnic detail, you see that the content of the law is made by the government to decide on each guarantee in accordance with Article 4, and that the National Assembly will only be informed. What is the purpose of this notice? We don't need him. The public will be informed through this government public service. This means a derogation from Parliament means taking one part of the enforcement of the legislative authority to the government level. And that's something to resist. Even if we left aside substantive questions, if it were true as explained by the Secretary of State, then I don't know why we're doing so much with some guarantee law. We've worked hard for the Court or you've tried twice in this term. First, you gave him 300 million euros to make no mistake and secondly, 180 million euros. Now we're going to try 300 million dollars for the highway program, I guess we're going to try another T6, we're going to work with Greece and so on. If that is true, then accept the €50 billion framework, and you no longer need this Parliament. EUR 50 billion is a guarantee, then for individual purposes it pulls out of the cabinet drawer and every time it needs something, it implements it or approves it. It is not so simple and the Law-Legal Service has not warned that something bad is wrong in this law. And look at the blight that can happen if this law is passed without this amendment, that the Constitutional Court cancels it back in a few months, and in the meantime some mechanism and pumping will happen. Who will be responsible for this?Oh, my God! I do not think that this is such a simplified question and that it is not such a simplified solution, but that these warnings should be taken seriously and be aware of the extent to which we are talking about. We are not talking about 1, 5, 10 million euros here, but we are talking about 2 billion 73 million euros. And what we want with this amendment is for the National Assembly to decide on each part of this common quota. When it is necessary to decide on the EUR 200 million of this quota, it must be decided by the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall decide on inappropriately smaller numbers and inappropriately smaller volumes and shall still act by the National Assembly because it respects the Constitution and the law in other areas. And this is the first case to be so gravely affected by these provisions. With this law, it has been said, we defend the strength of the European currency. We see the strength of this law, we will not defend it much. What has happened in the past has happened, and I fear that these moves that are now taking place do not lead exactly to the strength of the European currency, but lead to problems that are real and put off for a few years and that they will erupt in a few years' time in their entirety. This also calls for consideration of this Article 4 and this amendment. This law does not specify the specific purpose nor the conditions under which these guarantees are approved, which should all be in accordance with the applicable law, part of the law. And it's not true that the National Assembly co-decisions. This is very clearly stated in the law in Article 4 that after the guarantee has been approved, the Government shall have a quarterly knowledge of this matter. It is necessary to adopt this article formally and, according to the content, it is necessary to accept it because I think it is right that such large numbers, which will burden public finances in the long term, are decided by the National Assembly and not by the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u95	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Of course, I support this amendment, which will eliminate the unconstitutionality and illegality of this law, but these are the consequences. This amendment is a consequence, the point is somewhere else, because this law that we are adopting is also a consequence. The foundations are somewhere else. We must ask ourselves why we accept this law at all, why it is necessary for us to adopt this law. Why is there even a need for Europe to establish an institution that will be cut off from the countries again? Because she's going to decide transnationally. We're giving out the blanks. Will the other countries give birth? I don't know that. But from the point of view of Slovenia, this. What is being discussed here today, what this government is doing, will then be a supranational institution that will have no interest in what Member States think. And why must we adopt such a law? Maybe it could be a little different, but it's a principle. Why are we taking him? Because Greece has problems, one of the euro area Member States has problems. And why does he have them? Because Greece lied, the question is how many years. Five years is probably too short, even in ten years, you can't get the country on a cliff, you can't trust the state, you can't trust the state in ten years. This is said to have been more than one government lying. They lied to the institutions of the European Union. And the new members who joined the European Union and the Euro Club had to meet all the conditions. Greece, which has been there since the beginning, so what? [[...]] She was doing what she wanted. However, new adherents struggled to the point of disability. Remember, in Slovenia it was 0.2% of inflation, whether the 0.2% will be present or not, whether we come to the euro area or not. We've been hanging 0.2%, whether we're coming to the euro area or not! Greece for 100% of GDP, so nothing to anyone. And now we have to adopt this law because someone lied because someone was doing their homework. They also behaved domestically in Greece, and I have no objection to the Greeks to understand each other. They're the ones who came to this ground first. They were employed in the public sector as they should not have. Each employee had 0.5 more employees to have extras for coming to work at all, people of God! A bonus for coming to work! Not for a good job, so you can come to work at all. As it may be heard, in some institutions operating on the international market, it should have been that those who were sent abroad had to stay there for a week, so that they did not see at home that there were more than too many to dive. That society is also under scrutiny today because it will have to join another society. It's gonna end, but that's how it was done, and I wouldn't name names, but I can tell you. But that's right. In addition, when we start discussing 13th salary in Slovenia, we are all in the air somewhere. Yeah, what a 13th salary! Where and to whom! But in Greece, we hear, there are also 16 salaries, not 13, 14 and 15, even 16 wages are normal and those who have it do not want to give up because no one takes it away from them. People! Do we even know what the problem is? But it's 2 billion euros. Apparently, we haven't learned anything from our history here. Such a debate that is taking place today was very significant 20 years ago when we had a fund for the underdeveloped within our country at the time. And the only thing that has happened is that Slovenia has to give so much of its gross product, how the institution will spend this money that it has received, "forgive me, this is none of your business, you don't care, because you have to trust." Oh, yeah, we trusted, so we're still paying off that institution's debts today. Not only that, the Slovenian state still has to repay the obligations of the Kingdom of Montenegro. Yeah, that's right. That's right. But that's what collects, collects and collects, because the job was irresponsible. And this amendment does not prevent the law from being adopted, not at all, but allows for some responsibility and some normal way that it will not happen, which is why we have to adopt a basic law. That's what this is about. To say, this is our obligation, we went there, but now it is our responsibility to save the euro. Hey, my dears, that's how we saved the old country we were in together. We were saving the Slovenians, but we couldn't save them. But now that we have 0.4% of the banking potential per decimal, otherwise, I think it's 12 decimals or what, 0.44 I don't know how much more in the European Union, but now we're going to say, and now we're going to save the euro. That's nice, if we're being decent, that's fine. But to say that we are going to save the euro with 0.4% of the banking potential, I'm sorry, that's a little bit unrealistic. And that doesn't bother me either. The only thing that bothers me is that we're taking on some kind of commitment in a way. These are the facts, and it's not going to work. We give Bianca an opinion to an institution that will be transnational and act this way and she will not care what and how bloody the countries that pay for this fund will earn this money. Slovenia will have to borrow EUR 400 million for that share, we passed the law last week, to help Greece in order to have one of them have 16 salaries so that they can continue to behave unseriously. We're gonna have to hire a loan. We'll just be giving up, that's what this is all about. If Slovenia were to bathe in money, if it had billions of foreign exchange reserves, it would still understand, but those countries are not doing so, so they have billions of foreign exchange reserves, which is why they have them. Those who do not have the means to spend such money and if there is to be an unconstitutional and contrary to other laws. It is irresponsible that then the guarantees will be split without law. That's not serious. We are following the Legislative and Legal Service with this amendment. With this amendment, we also follow our history lesson. If anyone, then in the European Union, we who have learned this from history have not all had such experience. Not like that. We had it, but obviously we didn't learn anything from it. This amendment also means responsibility for the country. Responsibilities to the state, not to be given a blank currency for a single cent, shall not be given, because this is not normal. For every cent there must be some responsibility behind it, there must be some cover, there must be some basis, if not, that we must adopt such laws. Such laws are the result of such irresponsible work. They'll think about it. A third person will think, think nothing, for those who do not deserve this money and manage some other property usually have that kind of relationship. The way it came, that's how it went. That's old peasant wisdom. What is most sad is the European Union, including other countries, but we are talking about the European Union because it will be the European Union fund. She calmly watched what was going on in Greece, since 500 million Europeans were not so stupid that they did not know, especially in the banking sector, what was going on in Greece, but if ordinary citizens knew that Greece was speculating with state bonds. This was generally known as if I didn't know that sparrows were flying in the air. To speculate. Okay, well, for a while, the jugs go for water, and then it breaks once. And now these speculations have broken down at this very time. The problem is whether or not, I don't know, the good, the bad part is that banking institutions of rich countries have been involved in these speculations. France is the one with the most of these duties. Most of all, that's why it's the loudest thing to do. Of course, because he helps himself, they don't care about Greece. But to save their 20 or 22% as much as they have involved in these pigs. These countries themselves have helped us now to come into this crisis that we are solving. Although we are helping Greece, in reality the developed countries to which we give so much are saving their money. They're saving their banks, their bank investments. We don't want to do irresponsible work in the SDS, we've learned from history, so we've made this amendment. Once again, this amendment is not to reject anything, it is not to prevent this law, but to act as the responsible people, for the responsible country. That's why it's the amendment. Next thing you know, it's important. Otherwise, we can approve with our left hand. But we may still be paying back these funds, and certainly next generation. And I'm asking you if this is responsible for the next generation, future generations that will come, who have already had a difficult life, so that we can put them on hold. By the time they were born, they were already in charge, because we had foolishly handed in laws on our left hand. And let me ask you a question. Greece has 10 million inhabitants, the economy as strong as it is. What if it happens, God forbid, when some people are talking, Spain? Spain, however, has 40 million inhabitants, about 1 GDP, maybe a little more, but here somewhere, that means four times more. Do you realize if the same solution comes to Spain, that we will not only be obliged to give us 380 million, but four times more, and a billion more, and instead of 2 billion will then be 8 billion for this fund? And even if the fund stays the same, okay, but that one-off aid is going to be four times bigger, it's going to be four times bigger if the bigger economy comes into that gap, the gap is the same for everything in a certain amount, I don't know. either per capita or whatever, the amount will be four times higher for Slovenia. Yeah, if you're nodding, then I don't know how you think we'll be saving Spain with what? This fund will, that's fine, but the one-off aid that Slovenia is falling for Greece, €380 million, will be four times as big for Spain. It's gonna be, or it can't be. And besides, look, a pattern like Greece now, and I'm going to say, why wouldn't the Spanish really do that if Europe were to give hundreds of billions, why wouldn't they do it to the Italians and eventually to me? Yeah, well, then who's gonna work? Who's going to put it in this fund anyway? That's why I'm saying it's irresponsible and smart in the head and at least a little protection if we're going to do this. And let's say, the government's argument that this means extending the tranche if we accept this amendment is a genuine renewal of the approval. Now let's go in order. This means a rapid procedure for approval. Yeah, but how long did it take Greece to get into that state? It took years and years and years. Or should we now grant credit overnight, following a rapid procedure? They could've been shitting him for 20 years or 25 years, and now we're gonna have to break him on his knee in a day, and give him that help, yeah, that's really irresponsible. And that's what I'm going to say is that the government doesn't accept this amendment of ours, it's a pure principle, it's a pure principle, you don't accept it out of spite, because we proposed it in the SDS, you don't accept it out of spite. We wouldn't lose anything, we'd only have greater security, and you'd be safe. When there is a problem, do not worry that we will remember this discussion that we had. You can't accept it out of pure greed because we've proposed it in the SDS. That's irresponsible. And we are making a two billion-euro commitment here, and so with our left hand, yes, we must take it quickly, if we accept the amendment, it will take some time. At the same time, we are discussing five million for the student diet, and we do not have it, that is 500 times less, we do not have it, but 500 times higher for someone external, someone third, but we would have it, for local people, we do not have a local student, 500 times smaller amount. This is incomprehensible and irresponsible of this government, and if this government adopts such laws in such a way, in such a way, I speak of it, then I am not surprised if we have serious problems in Slovenia, because then it is not only this, but it is also somewhere else, which we do not see in Parliament, because we are giving only Bianca to the Government, and then she works, she takes as much as she wants. This is irresponsible and because we want to act responsibly in the SDS, we have proposed this amendment. We're not restricting anyone, we're not preventing anyone, we're just trying to get a little bit of security on the whole thing. And that's why I support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The word is "Silven Tiny." Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I'll back Amanda up. When you say that he will decide on individual guarantees to the National Assembly, I understand that this will continue to be decided by the coalition and not by the National Assembly with the opposition, which would be right, that such guarantees would be decided and confirmed by a two-thirds majority, if so, would be the seriousness of the government in some way also to believe. We will lend Greece and the rest of the euro area, and we are alone in a larger zone than they are. If we have to help anyone, it is our economy that has been sinking for almost two years. Let us first help our own, and then let us help others when we sail out of the crisis in a year or two. In short, this deadline has to be bridged for two years. I believe the Greeks would understand us if our government doesn't already understand that. In each zone you push us without the opposition's consent, which, however, is supposed to be responsible for the state in the country, as it was elected by almost the same number of votes as the coalition. 3+1 certainly does not mean that you can do what you want, mainly what is constant for citizens. Wages are falling and the cost of living is increasing. Minister Krebsova warned that the state does not have money to pay current obligations and therefore reductions in the public sector are necessary. We are all aware that the economic crisis has caused great debt in all the euro area countries. Such a situation was expected to lead to a collapse in the financial markets. It depends entirely on the actions of individual countries. Overburdening the credit economy has led to the inefficiencies of a number of companies that are unable to repay their loans and thus weaken banks. But they can't hire new loans because they're credit-deprived. The euro area public financial crisis has also destabilised financial markets, and the European Union has decided to introduce a further form of aid in order to form a company that will rent loans through guarantees from all Member States of the European Union. And that's what this law is supposed to ensure. I understand the speed and importance of this law by speculating that tomorrow we will need help in this form and that, if we do not accept it, we will be in a very unpleasant situation in a short time. On the contrary, I wonder where we are in a hurry, because we do not have honey and milk, we are not in line with the social partners, the unions are fighting for every euro, and we are offering guarantees, which is, after all, a charge of over €2 billion. If we invest EUR 2.5 billion in the economy, that is what we will give up in some way, we will save the economy and unemployment in the country immediately. If you see an exit strategy in giving credit and guarantees to rich people, then we really don't get it right. For when we are poor to the place, only a miracle saves us. This is the wrong world. Someone convince me this is the right way. No one's ever seen me before. Looks like we're getting off on the wrong foot. We have always a more police state, we are citizens more under control and there are always more who can punish us. Fear is always more present, which of course is wrong. The implementation of the law should be ensured for all equally, as the times of socialism and communism are over. Democracy certainly requires its tax, but there must be standards that bind all citizens and not just some, including decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Do we still want to discuss it? I'm asking you to sign up. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u100	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to point out that we are not talking about a loan, we are not talking about a financial outflow, we are talking about a guarantee. This is the first important element, because when colleagues on the other hand mention financial burdens in other projects, I think that the student diet was mentioned, if I am not mistaken, there we are talking about concrete money for a concrete project. We're talking about bail here. So we are talking about establishing a security system that will ensure our common currency of stability. Secondly, precisely with regard to this amendment, let me read that "publicity", as the amendment states, "by this law the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia approves by law". Well, we'd be taking the law now. And if this amendment were to be enforced, we would adopt a law in which we would write, we would adopt other laws for guarantees, which means that we do not need this law. It's like if someone were to take a test and get a driver's license, which would say that for each individual ride, they have to take another exam and get a special license for that ride, that's the same thing. In fact, this is about the desire that the law is neutralized through a party because either we need it and then it has to be effective or we neutralise it and then we do not accept it at all, but if we want to accept it, I think it makes no sense to blind and accept the amendment that actually speaks, the law does not apply, because we have to meet again for each individual guarantee. But if this is it, then not to propose these amendments, but simply to vote against the law, and that is, if this law is thought to be unnecessary. I also wonder what the position of partners in the National Assembly is as regards our membership in the European Union and in the euro area. If we want to stay in the euro area, if we want to stay in that core more and more solid and integrated European Union, then we need such a law because we need such a guarantee, because we simply need such a European system that will ensure the stability of the euro. Otherwise, say euro goodbye, we are not interested, we are leaving the euro area, the next step is likely to be an exit from the EU and we are going "European Iran" or "European North Korea". These are the two options. So, are we going in one way or another? I support this law. I am aware of the responsibility it brings, as far as guarantees are concerned, and not as far as concrete outflows are concerned, but I am really aware that if we want a stronger EU, this is the way. If we want a strong stable euro, it is the right way. But if we want a weak euro, and then I'm the first to say it, but then we'd rather get out of here with a weak tolar than a weak euro, at least we have control over our monetary policy. Therefore, I will only conclude by saying that, in so far as this law is opposed to the guarantee, I propose that colleagues also have all the right and have already made rational arguments to say, "We are not for the law, we are not for the euro after all, we have made a mistake when we enter, we go out and we return to the tolar." However, if we are still insisting together and sincerely believe that the euro is the true future of our area, then let us support this guarantee and make a law that will be operational, not a law that will just be a leaf on paper and nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, Madam Director, colleague and colleague! What is interesting is today's debate, especially in this direction in connection with this amendment, which I will not support. I am particularly interested in the fact that Slovenia's accession to the EU and entry into the euro area is a history, an important history that I hope that some people will not forget it and that it means that Slovenia in the family of the euro area is in good and bad, so not only when you want to, say, acquire a billion euro of investment funds as this year for important infrastructure projects, but also when any Member State needs assistance. The representative of the Government has already stressed at the meeting of the Committee that the legislative text represents a security network of members who would need assistance or financial resources for normal operation, so the necessary legal procedures should be completed as soon as possible, as Slovenia would be excluded from the possibility of receiving the proposed aid, with the support expressed by Slovenia among the members of the euro area. I doubt that any of my fellow Members or Members of Parliament wants such a thing, or that they forget in any way the important responsibility that we have in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia when we decide on important legislative changes, on important decisions. I also believe or do not know whether some of the colleagues who have already discussed today may have forgotten the fact that Slovenia already owed itself before the government's launch, before this confirmation of the highway programme, so I feel that today some of the things that are somewhat demagogic are now in charge of our children when they are born or are already born. The fact is, before this government was already in charge and we do not deny that we do not need roads and other infrastructure projects. Therefore, to me these certain sentences today seem almost like some kind of irresponsible misdirection. I would not like to say this, but unfortunately it is, as I said before, that we should not forget that the Republic of Slovenia is receiving important European funds and that this billion euro is still important to us in the development of Slovenia. I believe that, in the context of the financial perspective, there will also be opportunities for us to acquire these funds for the coming periods. So the amendment referred to in Article 4 to amend Article 4 will not be supported. In connection with this amendment, which states that guarantees under this law are approved by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by law and that the bill is prepared by the Government meaningfully and so on, this government has been confirmed by the National Assembly. He expressed his trust in her, and I am convinced that all those responsible in the Government, the competent ministries and the employees are still acting in a responsible and careful manner. I am also convinced that they are under the great scrutiny of the National Assembly and will continue to do so. We will probably be adopting many amendments to the legislation by the end of this mandate, including the budget's rebalances, and there will probably be plenty of opportunities and opportunities for the National Assembly, if any of the actions or guarantees or anything has been done wrong to take action in this direction. Which is why I certainly won't support the amendment. However, I am sure and certainly here I support the presentation by the Secretary of State, who has made it very clear that Slovenia is in the European Union, in the euro area, in this large family in good and bad. Therefore, as colleague Juri has already said, we know what the guarantee means, we know what it means to give money, what it means to rent a loan, and then we should give ourselves a conscience, and we should make decisions, and we should not be able to read. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you very much. There's a word for Jože Tanko. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u104	I will not have as many moral teachings for fellow Members from across the board as we have now heard. But I'd like to draw attention to the following. Today we have a law that represents the dimension of a quarter of the state budget or represents 30% more than the deficit in the state budget, and there is none of the most responsible, there is no President of the Government and there is no Minister of Finance. One would expect the country's most responsible men to sit here in such difficult debates as the two billion debate and several euro guarantees. Previously, we had one point where we got acquainted with the results of the referendum and the President of the Government came to tell us that he was praised everywhere. Now that we have a difficult matter ahead of us, there is one very important issue for the country, and there is no one here to discuss, none of those who should be here without question and defend what they have proposed. I do not agree with the fact that the formality has been fulfilled, but it is not enough for the State Assembly to sit at this meeting of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance and try to defend what was adopted by the Government of Borut Pahor. Secondly, when we talk about these things, I would like to point out that Slovakia has not supported assistance to Greece, which is also logical, because it is difficult to support some solutions for a country that has a better standard than those that will participate in aid where people have legal privileges, where they have not accepted any rationalisations in this regard in their public system, but live very much as they are, and we also help those who are ranked by standard, by purchasing power, by other capabilities below those that we are helping them. I hope that this is where the Prime Minister of the Government will probably experience a very important praise from his European colleagues. I would also like to point out that the approach taken in this mandate by the Government is unique in the area of guarantees. We have indeed adopted Article 86a of the Public Finance Act, in which we have made it possible to rent guarantees for those deposits that our bank savers have to provide those 12 billion potentials for this coverage. However, in this particular case, the Government's addition to the Law on Public Finances of Abuse, since we then adopted the Supplement to Article 86a of the Law on Public Finance, solely in order not to damage the role of savers and not for the purpose of writing here. Look at the explanation of the law, the distinguished Secretary of State, and it would be good to read this explanation, including the Minister of Finance and the President of the Government, and then to do so in accordance with the explanation of the law at that time. At that time it was for purposes, for the purposes of savings in the Republic of Slovenia. This law, which is now proposed by the Government, is an abuse of this provision. It is an imaginary matter, not defined anywhere, in any of the articles of the law the purpose of the law is not defined. Not even in that article, in the first paragraph, where it is stated that the funding programmes received by the participating members of the euro area are concerned, but no purpose is defined more precisely. What is particularly at stake in this Article 4 on which we have tabled an amendment is that the Government can also authorise the use of funds under this Act for individual financing instruments outside the funding programme. In short, this means that even beyond the approved funding programme approved by euro area members. Does this mean that we will again have a special solution, for example, for which a specially selected domestic institution, Tellargo, Ultra, will be either suspicious or ultra suspicious, etc., does not say this exception that you have written here. In fact, I would ask you, Madam Secretary of State, to explain what instruments these instruments are about, what these instruments will be intended for, when they will be activated and so on. In short, this exception, which is not harmonised, which allows guarantees to be issued past the Eurogroup’s conclusions, allows for the purely political distribution or the issuance of guarantees within the Republic of Slovenia for purposes which are not intended to be defined in this Act. I think that in making such important decisions, we should be more aware of what is written in the law or what is meant by the law and what is meant by this matter rather precisely, to be defined very precisely. This is the law, as colleagues have already mentioned, the Bianca Exchange of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the adoption of certain decisions and the Bianca Exchange also for what does not constitute the decision of those who participate in this part, it is said, not only for what the participating members of the euro area approve, but also for other purposes outside this package. That's worrying. The problem with this law is that the National Assembly is completely eliminated here. The National Assembly does not adopt guarantee laws under this law, as is the case with Dars, but the Slovenian company, where we specifically adopt the guarantee law specifically for each credit arrangement, is very different than we are likely to do if there are no exceptions again, deal with individual railway sections and so on. It is quite different in this work and the problem is that the National Assembly has no function of control over the decisions of the Government, no function of control. Although it says here that the National Assembly is informed on a quarterly basis, this is not supervision. That's not control yet. Given that we have relatively poor experience in trying to have the National Assembly in specific areas perform its supervisory function for the laws it adopts and do not convene meetings here, it is necessary to establish here that the law is written in such a way that it will not be possible to discuss this in the National Assembly. This in the National Assembly, however, is an amount which is greater than the budget deficit, a significantly higher amount, a third more amount, will not be possible to discuss, not the purpose of spending, nor the quality of the use of resources, nor do I, I do not know, what other matters. In short, the government's policy in this mandate removes control in all areas where the interests of the coalition are in any way affected. We have already met with the abolition of the parliamentary supervisory commission only because one of the stakeholders of this supervision was not satisfied with the supervision and has failed in the Constitutional Court to enforce what he thought should be. I am talking about the supervision of the so-called Kosovo Commission. Today we have received a notification that the Constitutional Court has for the last time rejected the appeal of those who have complained of the amendment of the Rules of Procedure. But since this has failed in the legal process to remove or amend the Rules of Procedure, you have achieved by amending the law abolishing control over the so-called Kosovo Commission. You have abolished many other controls, such as control over the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests. The National Assembly was relieved of control over reports and the operation of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests by amending the law. The control of Kad and Sod's assets is also withdrawn from the scope of the National Assembly with this amendment of the law you have passed. It is now proposed to delete the control of the National Assembly over the issue of guarantees. We have recently discussed the 2010 budget rebalancing and all the accompanying legislation, and these issues have not been mentioned anywhere. Not in the guarantee quota, I don't know what. No such matters have been introduced into the accompanying legislation that we have adopted here. And here we can talk about the planned play of control of the National Assembly over the executive branch of power. And perhaps if one authority acts without control, it certainly cannot contribute to transparency, transparency, rationality, efficiency and similar matters. Surely it cannot, and since these controls have been lifted, it will not be possible to exercise political responsibility. How can it be if these matters are no longer within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly? And this paradigm that you are pursuing in the field of control in this mandate is probably unique in the euro area or even in other European Union countries. In short, the unusual benevolence of the coalition to its executors, despite the fact that we are facing a number of affairs in this mandate, many suspicions of abuse, lack of transparency, the spillover of funds, agreed clientistic decisions and financing, and so on. Although many topics related to clientelistic behaviour have opened up in this mandate, political corruption, debt repayment for support and the like can also be dealt with here, the supervisory function of the National Assembly over the executive branch is vigorously abolished. And I would expect the members of the coalition to act differently in these cases, especially since the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has also warned, not once, repeatedly that the solution you are proposing in this law is not right and is not in line with the current legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. I do not believe that Mrs State Secretary is the one who will explain to the Members of the National Assembly whether the matter is constitutionally correct or not, so we probably have many other options, not only the Constitutional Court, but also the adoption of a mandatory interpretation in the National Assembly, as to how things are understood and the Government does not have these powers. And it would be good for the government to listen to the warnings given by members of the opposition groups. What means most is not always legal, is not always constitutional and is not always transparent and transparent. Therefore, I also suggest that you think very carefully before voting on rejecting this amendment from our Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Secretary of State Matey Vraničar spoke, and then I'll open another application circuit.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u106	Thank you very much, again, for your word. Let me first answer the specific question that I have been asked, namely, which financial instruments are referred to in Article 4, paragraph 3, under which the Government may authorise the use of funds for individual financing instruments outside the financing programme. If you look at the first paragraph of Article 3, this specifies for which company obligations Slovenia can provide guarantees under this mechanism. And in the first indent, the loaned, debt securities issued and other transactions belonging to an individual financing programme are listed. An individual funding programme shall be approved or determined on the basis of a request from a Member State in difficulty seeking to obtain funds through the company concerned and a company with a financing programme shall determine how the financial instruments will provide the funds that can be provided to that Member State in difficulty. However, the second and third indents of this first paragraph of Article 3 shall indicate other financing instruments which are not included in the individual country programme. Why? It may be possible to finance different needs through funds raised through a single funding programme. In view of the market situation, the company may assess that it is appropriate to issue any derivatives that are not listed in the financing scheme itself, but are absolutely and exclusively linked to the purpose and objectives pursued by the company and related to decisions taken by the management of the company in which all the participating Member States participate. In the third paragraph of Article 4, therefore, it is not in any case a thin authorisation to approve certain guarantees or quotas under the approved guarantee, but rather a monitoring of the company's operations and the possibility of participating in the individual financing instruments required by the company to carry out its tasks effectively. Allow me to have a few more answers to the other questions raised in the debate. First of all, the finding that the Slovak Republic rejected the loan to Greece. We are now talking about the second law, of course, but we must note that Slovakia only received a new government yesterday and that the government is committed to initiating appropriate procedures by the end of this month for granting the loan to Greece and also for Slovakia's participation in this special mechanism to stabilise the euro area. In addition to Slovakia, where cases have been delayed due to the appointment of a new government, only Belgium has not yet confirmed or taken appropriate measures to participate in this guarantee mechanism. However, we also expect Belgium to take a decision this month, as Slovenia has committed itself to the decision of the European institutions regarding the inclusion in the mechanism in question by the end of July. Of course, each Member State has its own internal rules, in which cases and in what way decisions on the granting of guarantees or loans must be taken. Slovenia has written down in the Constitution that loans and guarantees can only be issued on the basis of law. And before us is a law that respects and implements this constitutional provision. Some other countries are doing the same and must also carry out legislative procedures. Others are satisfied with the Act of the Executive Branch of the Authority and the Government can take appropriate measures to ensure participation in such mechanisms. Allow me to answer the specific question or claim that if Spain were in trouble, Slovenia’s engagement would be four times higher than that of Greece if it were granted a loan. Greece's problem was the first problem that Europe faced and responded to with the proposal for euro area Member States to lend to Greece. They thus directly enter into the lending relationship with Greece itself. Then, on the basis of the findings as to how complex and long-term this mechanism is and what the risks of such a mechanism are, it was agreed that, for possible other cases instead of individual lending to a Member State, a general mechanism would be established which is available over the next three years and therefore, in essence, the adoption of this law means that for any other Member States that are in difficulty, there will be no need to adopt a similar law as we have adopted for a loan to Greece, but through this mechanism and this company, by providing guarantees, we will provide that support and assistance to the individual country that provides us all with a solid currency. Maybe just a word or two more about recording or including guarantees in the state budget or in the budget balance. The law before us gives Slovenia the opportunity to accept or guarantee a total of €2 billion 73 million. The amount actually needed depends on the situation in each Member State that would be in difficulty and would therefore request the cooperation or assistance of the company concerned. Only at that moment will the individual guarantee quota actually be approved and at that time this amount will be recorded in the state of the guarantees and guarantees issued under the extra-balance sheet. In the B-Balance budget alone, only the planned amounts of possible cashing are to be maintained, and in this particular case, in our opinion, there will be no or will be an estimated risk of a potential guarantee being cashed as soon as the individual guarantees are given. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much. What desire for a discussion does anyone want to discuss? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is Willy Trophynik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. At first, I thought I'd quit, but I have a feeling that things are getting more and more complicated. I'll take the right because he'd been criticized here by the Minister of Finance if he wasn't here. As I know, he was on Ecofin yesterday, so it's not fair to criticize the public, and we don't know that he can't be here or here with us. If I go back to the Rules of Procedure and this is an amendment. At first glance, a person should draw on the amendment's drafters in that part as a result of a notice from the Legislative and Legal Service on potentially constitutional provisions, in particular Article 4 thereof. I'm talking about potentially constitutionally challenged. In this respect, I agree with the proposers and should be attracted to them. But the next step is not that simple. All the discussion or major part of the discussion does not lead to finding a solution to this concern about the potentially constitutional provisions of the law, but it is, I will say, 90 % of the discussion on the daily political needs, which have no connection with the content of the law, in particular, I think that without wanting any controversy with anyone, it is inappropriate to compare guarantees with real budgetary costs, such as diatric food and similar matters. Of course, it was already on the Committee on Finance itself to feel that this was a warning from the Legislative and Legal Service about some of the potentially constitutional provisions of the use of day-to-day policy, but it was not the will or will of the opposition or, if discovered, the majority of the coalition to come up with a better solution that would take this exception into account, it is said that, as the only member of the euro area, this constitutional provision was to decide on guarantees by law. It's just that the laws are passed by Parliament. I think they're, as a layman, I hope they're the exits to go around these problems. Finally, he also provoked me in some way, I apologize, the last part of the State Secretary's statement, which responded to the opposition's comments that these guarantees did not go to the State guarantee quota, as a special article speaks of it. I think that in a way into the quota, in one way or another, and that the whole approach of the law as such should be more restrictive, or if you want, the National Assembly should in some way make it difficult for the Government to give, now I will be a little mean, relatively light consensus. I think that such a solution could be found with some restrictive approach and, if not by limiting it to a certain period, it is not possible that this is even the financial year, the common quota, the quota we need for domestic guarantees, so I will express myself, and the quota to be provided for the guarantee under this law, if and without the Government going with each guarantee to the National Assembly, but to come at some time intervals that would mean a negligible lower risk than a biennial guarantee for two billion. But it was not possible to think in this direction because there was no political will and then there was no point in going looking for such a solution. As far as the answer is concerned, which I am not satisfied with, this is more of an accounting, do not resent, technically, how this will be inverted. Why? If we weren't in the monetary union or if we didn't have the euro as currencies, and we would come, say, in trouble, we should be charging the costs for these problems. In any case, this would have proved to be true if we had financed our own rehabilitation. And on the other hand, of course, there is only a question of the probability that the guarantee we gave for the sake of the Soda is more likely to be cashed. Is it more likely that the guarantee we gave in the past for Dars will be cashed? How are these two probabilities, since this is usually a classic probability, if the guarantee is separate it will be a cost if it is not cashed, there will be no budgetary cost. It's the same here. There's a possibility. We don't even know if it's more or less likely to be up to the Soda, and what this probability is compared to the guarantees we gave Darsa not to talk about others. Because it depends on whether it is, it will once be a real cost in A-billion, if I say so, a budget, or not. But if there was a small probability in the case of the other two, I wouldn't dare argue, not that I'm scaring. Because if it turns out that it is very unlikely or that this probability is close to nothing, then this instrument would not be sought by Europe. I'm afraid the probability is relatively high in this respect. Because if the probability wasn't relatively high, there wouldn't be a problem, but obviously there are problems. As far as the amendment is concerned, once again, I would argue with the original idea that the problem is in the same provision of Article 149, I absolutely agree. I've already said that on the committee, and I've also admitted that in my opening remarks. Of course, when I read this one forward, there will be one embarrassment. I know the authors will say, "It can be fixed in the third reading." It is embarrassing to see what kind of actions we imagine would happen. In order to understand each other, the text is as follows: "The guarantees under this law are approved by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by law." This is O.K. "The proposal for a law to be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia makes sense, given the annual funding programme unanimously adopted by the participating euro area Member States." What do we do now? Or first the Member and on behalf of Slovenia the Government agrees with a program, and then when it agrees, the postfestum comes to the National Assembly then the law, but two are possible to adopt the State Assembly guarantee law, then O.K., if it does not accept it, then the Government no longer has the conditions for the consent it has given. However, if it is not the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, then the whole programme does not apply because everyone has to agree, at least that is how I understand the basic text of the law, and I think that only with the correction of Article 4 all the regret that is in this law and about which it makes sense to talk and seek quality solutions, cannot be resolved, but that this amendment gives more room for political discussion, and this discussion, given what has been said so far, does not lead to a positive objective, this is an improvement of the law. So now, in making the decision itself, not only on this amendment, this amendment is supposed to solve something, but it does not fully solve it, there are other shortcomings that stem from a concept that the proposaler has chosen. However, I see another additional danger in this concept, because we in Slovenia are masters of such matters, we will come at this time unknown, but a possible temptation that we will seek an excuse in this law, that we will potentially circumvent the constitution, and that we will try again, following the example of this law, a constitutional provision. And there's no guarantee that that wouldn't happen. Once again, the idea or the court, yes, the reality is the same as the law. Slovenia cannot afford not to approach this instrument and, on the other hand, it is not the best-quality solution, and let this be said well-intentioned. In view of the previous discussions – and now I will be a little mean, which were because I could not replicate at the time because the business conditions were not met – those who speak so much about Greece must be aware that Greece has been assisted or led by Mr Saks in these speculations. That's what you know in a cell. It is also good to know who Mr Saks is and what some have wanted to do with the help of Mr Saks in Slovenia in the past. Now, to balance this statement, it is indeed to be afraid that, according to these other instruments, I personally oppose them because they give them room for manoeuvre for such an instrument, that some football club seeking to pay 150 million euros at this time in a country that is the world champion, because it is a great danger that this happens because they have lost their judgment over this, and that is not to say that someone needs only to pay 150 million dollars, as much as a third of the Slovenian obligation to Greece is to be questioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u110	Normally, the best way to reject this law is to accept only what is now known and what we know, namely the fixed capital of €31 000 and Slovenia's share of €146.55 and the power to recapitalise, if you wish, up to 30 million or up to the Slovenian share of €144 and a few thousand. And then making a decision about the guarantees when they do, if they do. This would be a constitutionally correct and legally correct course, but today we do not have such ones on the table. Today, we have a law that is wrong on a formal basis and on a salary. The Constitution is clear, let me repeat again: Marriages can only be approved by law. On the content side, if we simplify it, it is that the balloon, which has been bloated by everyone on all sides, has come to some overload and, of course, has broken. Some of them a little bit less, others a little less. Now there is a mechanism that will not eliminate these inflatable weaknesses, but that will allow this balloon to be glued with some patches, with state guarantees in the back, and allow for the respiration of the respiration that will happen sooner or later. This is the problem with this law that does not solve real problems. Furthermore, it is only necessary to understand the situation of Slovenia today and what it will have to do in the coming days, weeks and months, if it does not want to come on this path alone, which some European Union countries have entered, among them the first Greece. Slovenia must not afford this under any circumstances. There is no reason for this to happen to us, but the steps taken on this path are getting closer to this scenario. One of these steps is this unfortunate law, and many other laws that you have adopted in this National Assembly and which you have exaggerated in this Slovenian balloon. I think it is right that this inappropriate way, the inappropriate way ends and I think it is right that it ends at this point, which is also formally disputed – in a law that is contrary to the applicable provisions of the Constitution and contrary to the applicable legal provisions. I took one of the guarantees laws that was passed in the past. I took a marriage that has a number about the same as this one right here. However, in 2006, when it was adopted, this number was still in tolars. This is the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the University of Primorska on loans hired to co-finance the extension and modernisation of spatial conditions. I have tabled this law myself with some other Members, and it has been unanimously adopted. It amounted to EUR 1 billion 932 million, representing approximately EUR 8 million. 8 million euros. Today, we are talking from two billion and 73 million euros. We don't even know why these funds are going to be used. These doctrines, which are in marriage, are so wide that they can be used for anything. And in this law, see Article 1, "credit up to the amount referred to in the preceding paragraph is leased by the University of Primorska to co-finance investments at the level specified by the Basic Development Programmes Act in the field of education and science". For the specific cases set out in some law, even more, in this law, the conditions under which this guarantee is given are precisely stated in Article 2, the interest rates must be comparable and so on, such as the state guarantee loans, the maximum repayment period, the maximum costs, the maximum cost of the reservation, the maximum amount, the principal’s repayment and so on. Everything is very clear and clearly defined and I remember the procedure at the time, even these very clear provisions we have listened to comments in this house by the then Legislative and Legal Service. It is true that at the time, we were given a bit of an unnecessary suggestion, but the point is that the purpose is still not clear enough, because the Basic Development Programmes Act is not enough to mention concrete projects, which is, of course, contrary to one normal, healthy logic. But the condition, the purpose and everything else should be determined. And what is worst in this Article 4 is the jurisdiction which is, under the Constitution of this Parliament, taken up by this Parliament and given by law to the Government. For in accordance with Article 4, the Government will decide on individual guarantees and the granting of individual guarantees. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we have proposed that this inadequate law be completely rejected, but we have not been heard, so we have tried to correct in at least one small part what is harmful in it. Otherwise, in view of the internal political situation in which pensioners in this country are employed in the public sector, virtually everyone should be faced with the need to tighten their belts in the next year in the same period as it is happening here and when a situation is being prepared that these measures will somehow only be adopted, the Government faces the approval of EUR 400 million, two billion, for which we do not even know how, when and in what way they will be exploited and completely unnecessary. I also think that, from a reasonable point of view, this is not the right procedure. And within the European Union, Slovenia would do what it has to do if it is to say that we are in this society, we are with this set-up of EUR 30,000, and we are ready to contribute to an increase of up to 30 million, and we will make the rest when concrete decisions are made, because this is our internal legislation and no one can challenge it. No one can force us to accept this law, one way or another, because it is our sovereign authority. However, if the Prime Minister has committed himself, if the Minister of Finance has committed himself to certain things, it is right that he also, of course, in his country, has the support of Parliament. However, not a coin exchange, but for what is a framework and framework is for once the creation of a company with a financial contribution, which is not EUR 2 billion 73 million, but significantly less.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. There are times when, of course, you have to say bob beans and talk about something that, of course, is politically, publicly not popular, but our citizens and citizens, everyone in Slovenia deserves to know what the truth is in this story. Of course, when we entered the European Union and later some boasted long and wide about how they successfully presided over this bureaucratic giant, of course they did not want to speak in this part of the story. At that time we painted only the most beautiful wages of this medal, here is also the second part of the medal, which is as in life, we also need to save and have a scenario for moments, when everything is not beautiful and everything is ideal. And as in life, so in this case, in severe, severe trials, healthy seeds are separated from weeds. If we had such a mechanism as we are now establishing, the story with Greece would be cheaper for Slovenia than it will be. I'm sure such boundless blackness, pessimism in this area is out of place. I am convinced that all these funds, as envisaged by the mechanism, will never, ever, ever, travel to countries that are in need of assistance in the European Union, because if they come this far, then there will be many more questions in the whole world or in this part of Europe. I just think the mechanism is appropriate. We enter Slovenia and Slovenia with 0.47% of the cartridge. The mechanism also has a number of safeguards to release and assist in one case only when all accession countries agree unanimously on this, in one case 75% of the agreement is needed, that, of course, given the amount of funds we are making available from the European Union - and in many Slovenian municipalities, projects that are there between 50 and 80% co-financed from the common budget, in which we are all paying together - but the limit to what we will draw, two billion, is not the reason why Slovenia and Slovenia would deny membership in the European Union. And that's exactly what this is about for those who are always criticizing. They don't offer a better crisis resolution mechanism. There is only one dilemma, or we are going out of the euro area, we are going out of the European Union, maybe on another successful path with another solution, or we are staying where we are and, of course, pluses and minuses as we always do in life or in every law we share in the way that that moment shows best and that is the only thing. Simply put, I am sure that Slovenians and Slovenians have no choice at this time of second, better and different. What an important value for the quality of life of all of us is the stability of the euro, but all those who want to distribute and think about it can read in yesterday's analysis of economists, what does it mean if the neighbouring Croatian Kuna devalues us by 7.8%. Some will applaud this because they will be able to fly in Croatian for a short period of time, perhaps a week, and save a few euros, a few kunas. What does this mean for the Slovenian economy, but read in your opinions, not politicians, but real economists and economists. However, the story of the stability of the euro is similar. If we allow the euro to be evaluated to lose its value, then the Slovenian economy, the savings of Slovenia and Slovenians and everyday life are in bad shape. That is not what we want, so I will vote against this amendment, and above all we must give everyone the message that we must work hard and get out of the crisis [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah, I'll just file a report, please. Dr. Luke Yuri has the word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u114	To understand the meaning of this law and also the meaning of the "little brother" of this law – loans to Greece, although it was a loan there, it is only a guarantee, so at this point it is not a financial or liquidity transaction to understand this better, we need to understand the core of the problems that have occurred in Greece. There was no problem of overindebtedness or over-indebted public debt, in itself. The problem was speculation, speculation by investors, foreign, private, in particular private investors, that Greece would no longer be able to finance its public debt in the long term and therefore stopped funding this debt on its own. Greece, like every country, including Germany, including the United States of America, is financing their public debt by issuing bonds that have a certain maturity – 5 years, 2 years, 10 years or whatever it is, and other investors in this bond are buying up and financing public debt in this way. However, if there is a situation where no one wants to redeem the bonds of one country, of course this country cannot finance its public debt anymore. And it was the same with Greece, except that Greece has so much higher debt, otherwise it is not the only one, Italy also has a very high public debt, a high level of public debt and a high level of indebtedness abroad, and these foreign investors were no longer prepared to continue financing Greek bonds at a certain point. And Greece was in this situation because they speculated that Greece would sooner or later find itself in this situation. So it's about someone expecting something to happen, and because of these expectations, which are typical in the economic field, the first step in this direction is to trigger such a domino effect. In fact, it itself triggered what it expected would happen -- the performances are called. Well, with this system established by ad hoc in the case of the Greek loan law and the system with the guarantee law and the system at European level, such speculation will no longer take place. And I am sure that Spain will not, Ireland will not, even Great Britain, end up having problems, will not, and Italy will not be having these problems. Because speculation will no longer be able to happen, for the system itself will ensure that this will not happen. The system itself, the fund itself, will ensure that no country will have such problems with liquidity and solvency, and therefore speculators will not even enter into this. That's why this system makes sense. However, if we believe that we have another, better alternative, we need to present it, not that we have been talking here – how many hours – about the fact that this system is not good and we still have not presented an alternative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The word is Tinker Bell.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u116	The first paragraph of Article 4 of this Law makes it very clear and unequivocally stated, "messages under this law issued by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia". Article 3 does not clearly set out the purpose, but is open in all three indents a very wide palette, and thus a blank currency of the National Assembly up to EUR 2 billion and 73 million, at any time and for any need that will arise in this society. And that's just one of the cases, and everyone else is, of course, similar. I only took it because the numbers are very similar, and the value is 250 times higher today. 250 times bigger is this number, which gives you a blank currency, not for some of our needs, but for some imaginary, external needs that we don't even know when and if they'll ever come. Four years ago, in a law by which the Republic of Slovenia made a guarantee for the obligations of the University of Primorska on loans hired to co-finance the extension and modernisation of spatial conditions and technological equipment, we wrote very clearly and decisively in the law the purpose of when, under which conditions and so on, it was 8 million euros. Eight million euros! And the law laid down all the necessary elements of this guarantee. Why? Because of the need to be restrictive in guarantees and in debt. It was not the legislator, the founder, who overlooked it and accidentally wrote it down in the constitution, which he wrote down that these matters were decided by the National Assembly. Why did he write that? Because we have to be restrictive. And Slovenia, unfortunately, last year and a half in this area is not restrictive. Even things with some ease are taken, up to that much, up to that much. We also read more and more often in other laws, up to EUR 500 million is guaranteed. I think that this philosophy, if we do not want to fall into this mechanism alone in the coming years and be the beneficiaries of these funds themselves as an over-indebted country, needs to be changed. The opportunity for at least part of this policy to change is that this amendment is today adopted and that the decision on what it is mandated to do is returned to this Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. Agenda item — Defence of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Composition of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession and to the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession, Summary Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mateja Vrančar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the Proposal for Amendments to the Law on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the Succession and the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia for the Issues of Succession, whose purpose is dual. Bringing the current law into line with the amendments to the Public Funds Act introduced in 2008 and updating the provisions on the intentional assets of the Fund, which would allow it to be more rational in the management of state assets. The current law on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession and the High Representative was adopted at the National Assembly in March 2006 to implement the agreement on succession issues. It is intended to exercise the rights and obligations of Slovenia in the process of the division of assets, rights and obligations of the former SFRJ and to carry out other tasks related to matters of succession. The law provides in Article 18 that the Succession Fund shall operate in accordance with the provisions of the law governing public funds, and in the second paragraph of this Article the articles of the Law on Public Funds, which shall not be applied to the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia as an inheritance. The definition of exceptions to the application of the system law governing public funds is due to the specific nature and purpose of the establishment of the Succession Fund. Since a new law on public funds was adopted in 2008, which regulates certain matters differently or in other articles, references in the Succession Fund Act should also be updated. The inheritance fund has a dedicated asset of approximately €59 million. Experience with the operation of the Fund and with the operation of its predecessor of the Success Fund indicate that, in order to consolidate the financial assets of the State, the assets of the Fund would be reduced to below EUR 30 million, which is the limit under the Public Funds Act. In doing so, the founder intends to maintain sufficient resources in the Fund’s dedicated assets to fulfil the Fund’s purpose and to settle the expected liabilities under the division of the liabilities of the former SFRJ. Exceptionally, if funding for the operation of the Fund for the Succession from the Budget is shown to be necessary, the funds will be provided under the special budget heading of the Ministry of Finance. During the consideration of the bill at the Committee on Finance level, the question arose whether we still need the Succession Fund at all. The answer to this question, of course, is yes. The issues of succession after the former Yugoslavia are far from over on the side of the division of assets of the former Federation, and some obligations of former federal entities remain open. It is therefore right that the State retains such an institution as the Succession Fund, which operationally supports the work of the High Representative on matters of succession. However, its assets should be kept at a level not too high in terms of prudence and not too low in order not to jeopardise the normal functioning of the Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Member of Renata Brunskola. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Hello again! On 23 June, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law as a parent labour force. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, with a general comment on the reference to the regime used in other laws, forwarded specific comments on Article 1 to Article 2 and Article 3 of the legislative proposal. On the basis of comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service, four coalition groups tabled an amendment to Article 1. In the context of the additional working material, the Committee was informed by the proposer of the law by additional explanations and explanations of the solutions introduced in Article 2 and Article 3 of the proposal addressed to the Legislative and Legal Service and the members of the Committee, which, with regard to the warnings given to that Service, had forwarded to the National Assembly the Cabinet of the Minister responsible for Finance. In its supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the Government stressed that the text pursues two objectives, which, in the substantive view of the first place, represents a harmonisation of the provisions with the new umbrella law on public funds, while establishing a legal basis for reducing assets below the limit of EUR 30 million under the Public Funds Act, thus opening up the possibility of consolidating public financial assets, taking into account the principle of economy, thereby improving the efficiency of the management of the assets of that fund. Thus, according to the Government's assessment, the Fund's dedicated assets will be sufficient to pay all current liabilities, while any additional assets will be covered by the State budget. It follows from the interpretation given in the presentation of the written opinion by the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service that the relevant answers to the warnings of that service to Article 2 and 3 of the proposal are provided in the written explanations of the Financial Ministry. On the other hand, the amendment of the coalition parties to Article 1 on the basis of a comment constitutes an appropriate solution. During the discussion on the individual articles of the legislative proposal which opened on mother to Article 1 or Article 3 of the legislative proposal, certain views and opinions were presented or certain questions raised and answers to the concerns raised by the representatives of the Government were submitted. At the time of its consideration, the Committee adopted the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Article 1 of the legislative proposal. At the same time, in accordance with Article 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law in which that amendment is incorporated is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The amended draft law is also an integral part of this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u121	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Act in force on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession and the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia shall act as a successor in accordance with the provisions of the law governing public funds. In 2008, a new law on public funds was adopted, which regulates certain matters differently or in other articles, and provisions which are not applicable to the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia as an inheritance should therefore be updated. The Fund of the Republic of Slovenia has an inheritance of approximately €59 million. The only purpose of this law before us is to transfer the assets of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for inheritance to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. So we discovered a sock that contains money that is miraculously still full, and of course it needs to be emptied immediately. Why is this money going to be spent? For what purpose? It doesn't really matter and nobody cares. The country needs, the country spends, we save it like this, so we need to empty all the socks, all the pockets, all the hidden reserves. That this money is purposeful, for some reason, probably nobody's interested right now. Nor is it that there are likely to be some, otherwise, contingent liabilities for which these funds have been reserved. And that's gonna be necessary for once, I guess. But we will rather spend this money on an ongoing business that will not give any added value and then settle the liabilities from the common bag of the budget. If I stay with the parables, most of the silver we've sold, some of it's still small, we're already pulling gold teeth out of our mouth. In the SLS Group, we oppose such behaviour by the Government, and we will not support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Franc Jurš.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! It's a good thing we're different in the National Assembly. I will say that we will support the proposal for a new law in our parliamentary group. The succession fund governed by that law was established in order to exercise the rights and obligations of the Republic of Slovenia in the process of dividing property, rights and obligations of the former SFRJ and to carry out other functions related to matters of succession. In principle, the Fund shall operate in accordance with the provisions of the law governing public funds, with the exception of exceptions to the application of the system law explicitly mentioned for reasons of specific nature and the purpose of establishing this Fund. These facts have an impact on the value of assets, as it is stipulated that they must not fall below EUR 30 million, otherwise additional assets should be paid to them or the liquidation of the public fund should be initiated. The Fund of the Republic of Slovenia has an inheritance of approximately €59 million. In view of the desire to consolidate the financial assets, claims, liabilities and possible liabilities of the State, it is proposed to enable the transfer of part of the dedicated assets of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the succession to the B-balance sheet of the budget. If the founder considers that the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the entire purpose of the asset is not needed in the short term for the purpose for which it was established so that the value of the asset can be reduced below EUR 30 million. We do not oppose this in the DeSUS Group of Members, so we support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Once again, a good-bye to everyone! The main purpose of the proposed law, which we support in the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, is to enable the possible transfer of the assets of the Succession Fund to the state budget with a simple objective of consolidating the financial assets. Since the potential transfer of assets of the Succession Fund itself is governed by the Public Funds Act, which provides that the value of its assets should never be reduced below EUR 30 million, the Succession Fund Act should be amended in order to transfer assets. Since it is in practice a desire to consolidate the financial assets of the Republic of Slovenia, we agree with the proposed solution at the Liberal Democracy Club to establish a legal basis that will allow the transfer of the dedicated assets of the Succession Fund to the balance sheet B of the budget. This should be done if it is found that this fund does not need to achieve its basic purpose. As can be seen from the very explanation of the law, the Succession Fund currently has an asset of €59 million. An essential addition to the law is to provide that the provisions of the Public Funds Act are not applied at the point of the reduction of the assets of the Succession Fund. Thus, the law does not affect the functioning of the Fund itself, as the proposer says that, despite the reduction of assets, sufficient resources will still be provided for smooth and normal business. However, since the transfer of assets will achieve better effects on the management of this property, the proposed solutions are, in the opinion of the proposers, to whom we also attach, meaningful and appropriate. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club, we will also unanimously support the proposal of the law from a simple perspective of better financial management and the objective of achieving higher returns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bogdan Čepič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u128	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings, colleague and colleague! The Law on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession and the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in March 2006. In order to implement an agreement on succession issues ratified by the Law on the Ratification of an Agreement on Succession Issues and, in this regard, to exercise the rights and obligations of the Republic of Slovenia in the process of the division of assets, rights and obligations of the former SFRJ and to carry out other functions related to the question of succession. In 2008, a new law on public funds was adopted, which regulates certain matters differently or in other articles, and therefore provisions which do not apply to the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for an inheritance should be updated in terms of the specific nature of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for an inheritance and the structures of its investments. Since the Fund shall in all other cases operate in accordance with the provisions of the Public Funds Act, the value of its assets shall not be reduced to below 30 million, the founder shall, in accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 11 of the Public Funds Act, when the capital of the public fund is reduced to below 30 million euro, pay off the asset or start the liquidation process of the public fund. The Fund of the Republic of Slovenia has an inheritance of approximately €59 million. In view of the desire to consolidate the financial assets, the claims and possible obligations of the State, it is proposed to exempt the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia from the application of the provisions of Article 11, paragraph 5, of the Public Funds Act in order to enable the transfer of part of the intended assets of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for an inheritance to the so-called balance sheet B of the budget. If the founder considers that the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia is not needed for the purpose of its establishment to the full extent necessary in the short term, so that the value of the assets can be reduced below EUR 30 million. This also brings to the State budget the obligations and possible obligations of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the succession, regular operation of the Fund or other. The founder intends to maintain in the dedicated assets of the Fund sufficient resources to highlight the purpose of the Fund and to settle the expected liabilities under the division of the liabilities of the former SFRJ. As already described in the law, the main solution of the proposed law is to define the possibility for the founder to exercise the right to reduce the intended assets of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for succession under the procedure provided for in the Law on Public Funds and the exemption of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia under the provisions of Article 11, paragraph 5, of the Law on Public Funds. This Article allows the founder to reduce the dedicated assets of the public fund in accordance with Article 11 of the Public Funds Act in the manner laid down by the Public Funds Act. The Act on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession and the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession provides, in accordance with Article 11, a consistent indication of the extent of the intended assets of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for succession. In spite of the principle laid down in Article 11 of this Law on Public Funds, any reduction in the scope of the dedicated assets of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for an inheritance obtained mainly by the Succession Fund of the Succession Fund of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia could constitute a non-compliance with Article 11 of the Law on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the Succession and the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia. The guiding principle of the proposed legal change is the principle of economics, whereby the assets for which the founder considers that the Succession Fund does not need it for the purposes for which it was established are consolidated with other financial assets of the Republic of Slovenia and used where it can bring higher assets to the country. For this reason, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on compliance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u130	Dear President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State, colleague and colleague! We will not oppose the proposed novelties in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. In fact, we have one principled thought about why not cut deeper. In fact, the law gives one important message or this novelty of the law. This communication is that there has obviously been too much earmarked assets on this Fund and, according to the Government's assessment, the payment of potential liabilities, and that a legal basis for the reduction of the earmarked assets under the 30 million euro limit must be created or should be made meaningful. Clearly, this Fund will not have as many obligations as originally envisaged and intended after the collapse of the common country and the question of the meaning of the existence of this Fund is raised. We are in a time of financial and economic crisis, when we should cut and shrink everywhere where it makes sense to cut it, and that does not happen. For example, today I have been faced with one interesting austerity measure by this government due to a crisis that is likely to have bad consequences both for citizens and for bureaucracy. In fact, remember, the Ministry of Public Administration introduced an institute some four years ago, informing the citizen before the expiry of the marketing authorisation that it could escape, and that it should come to order things so that it does not accumulate unnecessary costs and does not accumulate some bureaucratic tasks. It's been canceled now. There are no more warnings. When I asked the management unit why, they said, these were government austerity measures. I said, okay, fine. And when we consider this amendment of the Law on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession and the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia, where, in fact, you in the Government assess that some mission is questionable, why not simply terminate this fund. Why not transfer the intended assets to the state and why not assign someone to a ministry, such as the Ministry of Finance, to carry out these tasks. This would be, if nothing else, some symbolic behaviour in a time of crisis, when it is necessary to optimize the functioning of the country, to abolish those institutions and those funds, institutions and agencies that are survivors, who are just burdening red tape and creating some unnecessary procedures and tasks. We will therefore act in the Group relatively reserved for this proposal, which is more or less technical in nature. We call on the Government to consider the meaning of the existence of this and many other institutions, even though when we have received information on the Committee on Finance, there are some bureaucratic costs for this fund. However, it begins with such projects and continues with more important cuts or reductions and reductions in the number of institutions. We will therefore act neutrally on this proposal. And once again, consider the meaning of the existence of this fund in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Villa Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. The Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession is the successor to the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession, which was established in 1996 to raise funds from the institutions of the former Federation and to pay the obligations assumed on the basis of the relative share of the Republic of Slovenia for success. Given that Slovenia’s potential obligations are no longer as high as those at the time of its establishment - by the way, the Fund has not had any obligations under this Title in the last two years - and since the agreement that has been in force since 2004 does not provide for the existence of such a fund, it is reasonable to allow the proposed amendments to reduce the provision from the current €59 million to the level that will be sufficient to pay the possible liabilities. This will enable the consolidation of the state's financial assets and enable the transfer of part of the earmarked assets to the state budget. In the parliamentary group, we will support the changes in the law, and we would rather support its repeal as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u133	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE REFERENCE OF THE CAPITAL SOCIETY OF LEAVING AND INVIDENCE, THE TRANSLATION OF RIGHTS AND THE OBJECTIVES OF THE SLOVENIAN INJURY SOCIETY AND THE INVESTIGATION POLICY OF THE CAPITAL SOCIETAL AND INJURY SOCIETY AND THE SLOVENIAN INSTRUCTION SOCIETY, THE RURAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The text is by Matthew Vraničar, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u134	President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! We have before us a second consideration of the proposal for a law on the transformation of the Capital Society, the transfer of the rights and powers of the DSU to the Slovenian Compensation Society and the investment policy of the Capital Society and the Slovenian Compensation Society. Allow me to briefly summarize the basic objectives and solutions of the bill. The aim of the law is to enable the effective pursuit of the objectives of Slovenia without prejudice to the interests of beneficiaries currently protected by Kad and the Court of Justice and to ensure the effective management of companies owned indirectly by the Republic of Slovenia. This law covers the policy of direct and indirect management of state-owned enterprises, which began with the adoption of the Capital Investment Management Act. The law also lays down the exercise of the right and the manner in which Kad and the Court have made available their investments, as well as the rules governing the acquisition of new shares and shares. This ensures the protection of the interests of the Republic of Slovenia in the strategic investments of which Kad and Sod are holders. The rights of strategic investments will be exercised by the State authority responsible for exercising rights in the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia. This investment will require the agreement of the Kad or Sod Assembly. In the light of the substantially reduced liquidity of the Court’s assets, the interests of the Court and the beneficiaries under the denationalisation and other laws are protected through a provision to enable the Court to provide the company with the additional resources necessary to fulfil its legal obligations through the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law provides for the reorganisation of Kad by the inclusion of a new insurance company. This will be done by transferring individual parts of Kad's assets to a new company. The newly established insurance company will be formed as a share company whose only founder and shareholder at the time of the split is Kad. Thus, the insurance undertaking will carry out an insurance activity in accordance with the Insurance Act, which also allows the management of pension funds. From the date of entry into the Court Register, the management of the First Pension Fund, the First Pension Fund, the Mutual Pension Fund for Public Servants and the Capital Mutual Pension Fund shall be transferred to the Insurance Fund. The basic capital of the insurance undertaking will be at least €152.2 million at the time of its establishment, enabling it to operate smoothly. The insurance company will be the legal successor to the rights and obligations of the transferred part of Kad, with rights and obligations being precisely defined by the distribution plan. If an investment is transferred to the insurance undertaking, which will be defined as strategic, it will be managed by an authorised national authority. The law also lays down the obligation for the insurance undertaking to notify, within six months of the transfer of the management of pension funds, all insurers who are members of the pension funds referred to above at the time of the entry into force of the law and also employers with whom it has concluded contracts for the financing of pension plans. The Additional Pension Insurance Fund remains with Kad, as regulating his problem is part of the pension reform. In the proposal for a law, the government also proposed transferring part of the rights and powers from DSU to the Society of the Court. In doing so, it wanted to rationalise the operation and completion of procedures in the area of property transformation, privatisation and denationalisation. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, a decision was taken to delete the chapter under consideration from the draft law. Nevertheless, the Government notes that the amended bill, as drafted by the Committee, is in line with the fundamental purposes for which the Government has submitted the law in question to the legislative procedure at all, and therefore does not object to the issue of rationalisation of such an operation being regulated separately. Let me conclude by stressing once again that this law is rounding up a more transparent and effective policy for the management of financial assets in the direct and indirect ownership of the Republic of Slovenia, since a consistent delimitation of ownership function is being made than the regulatory one. Taking into account the above, we propose to the National Assembly that the proposal for a second reading should be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to a member of Marjan Bezjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u136	Dear Secretary, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The Committee considered the draft law at its 18th session, 26. 6. and to be held at 29. 6. which was closed to the public at work. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which points out that Kad, the Court and the DSU currently regulate a number of laws, making the transparency of their situation questionable and making this one point. The Service also made comments on the number of articles in force. The proposed law has been tabled by the members of the coalition, the SLS and SDS Group, the SDS Group of Members, Zares and LDS, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Ambassador Bogdan Čepič, Ambassador Bogdan Barovic. The Committee also received an opinion from the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Tourism and Finance, which does not support the proposal. Meetings of the Committee were attended by representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Kada, Soda and DSU, President of the Pension Company My Investment and representatives of the Legal and Legislative Service, as well as representatives of the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions and Unions of State and Social Organs of Slovenia. In the discussion, the members of the Committee paid the highest attention to the amendments of Ambassador Bogdan Čepič to Article 1 on the basis of which, instead of the insurance undertaking, a pension service was to be established as a specialised institution for the management of the pension fund, which would carry out only one activity in its entirety. The main points from the discussion of the members of the Committee, the representatives of the Government and the interested public are: the Government has already addressed this issue in more detail in the drafting phase of the bill. The creation of an insurance company of a dedicated pension company was agreed by both the profession and the representatives of trade unions, the public sector and also pensioners. Some discussers see the essential advantage of the insurance undertaking in greater transparency of its business, in the more appropriate composition of the supervisory board, greater flexibility on the market due to the supply of additional products and consequently greater profitability, and in view of the greater benefit for insurers who will have the possibility of additional insurance options. Discussioners from opposition parliamentary groups stressed that the open issue had already been highlighted in the general debate. However, there was no response from the drafter with additional proposals on the draft law of the National Assembly. It is certainly not good for insurers if the insurance undertaking carries out an additional voluntary pension activity as an additional or secondary activity. It is necessary to take into account the interests of insurers who are now paying for the existing four pension funds. In addition, the reorganisation of Kad, Soda and DSU, which is required, should take place in a broader strategic manner, not as envisaged by the proposed law. An assessment was also made that four collaterals would increase the risk that the business would expand to competitive activities. At the following meeting, which took place in part without the presence of the public, the representative of the service Kad presented the business plan of the future insurance undertaking also in terms of comparison with the pension company. After this presentation, the Committee decided on an amendment to establish a pension company instead of an insurance company and did not accept it. In the part of the debate relating to the amendment of the SLS and SDS to Article 1 to read the provisions relating to DSU, support for the amendment was also expressed by some members of the coalition, sent groups and the Committee, and was therefore supported by the proposal of both groups and adopted their amendments. As a result, the Committee has adopted its amendment to the articles of the second chapter. The Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and voted on all articles. The amendments adopted are included in the text of the amended draft law, which is an integral part of the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Since the Assembly held its first reading of the draft law at its 17th meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Seven. 2010 I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk? He won't, so I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Yes, please, Bogdan Chapel. If it's necessary later, I'll open a deadline for your application. Please Bogdan Chapel.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that, President. As is known, I myself have tabled an amendment on the committee that would change this decision to transform Kad and to split into an insurance company and Kad as such. In doing so, I had in mind the effectiveness and protection of the interests of public servants who are the most numerous within the pension fund. I still argue that the decision for the insurance company is a bad decision and from this point of view I will not support the amendments. In particular, because he notes that Kad’s wish to run some other business through the insurance company is that he does not manage pension funds, which was a fundamental task in this proposal, in order for someone to specialize and engage in only one activity, and this is perfect. Also because it was a transformation of Kato's one set of interests inside of it. Interest of the shareholders involved. I'll just count them. Here the public sector unions are united in committees that do this, informal committees that now manage it, here is also the share of pension funds, or those that deal with the pension fund, when it foresees an investment from Kad from the management of the amount that is fixed and we do not know where we will cover it, and it will likely go to a large extent to reduce the capital of this future Kad. Let me stay at the first part first. It is unacceptable for me that, in Article 4, when it comes to this division and these things, in the second paragraph, the distribution plan must contain all the special benefits that will be granted to members or members of the boards of directors or supervisory boards of the company or insurance undertaking and the dividing auditors. And what are the benefits? We don't say that. Is this a reward or are these other benefits? Are these hidden things that don't go into it? And if this committee, which will accept this and the balance of shares, does not agree with these benefits, it will not give its consent to share and this division will not take place. Also because it is the intention to transfer the best or I do not know which investments within this. Because it wants to compete with this insurance company already two Slovenian state or majority state owned insurance companies on products we do not know how and how they will manage it. From this point of view, it is more unknown than answers and cannot be supported from this point of view. I anticipated it, and I thought we'd be able to table another amendment that would try to bring back the idea of a pension society, but due to the procedure, that's not possible. The second is the reshaping of the Soda. We're reshaping the court by attaching it to the D.S.U. And then it's more transparent. Nothing is more transparent, nor is it because in the report prepared by the Government on the abolition of the DSU, it clearly stated that the DSU is doing well, but the attachment must be that there is enough money and this attachment must in some way be. And from this point of view, I think that the law itself – at least that is my opinion that there is no support in the parliamentary group, so this is more separate – is a bad law that opens up more questions than it closes and transforms the important financial pillar or the important financial power that is united in Kad and the Court, does not solve them, I think they are even more complicated. We are likely to be relatively soon faced with revisions to this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 2? I'm opening the application. The word is Willy Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. We are at Article 2 and this in some way spoiling, whether will or willful, events related to this law. In this law, it must be borne in mind that certain provisions which are fundamental in law are the fruit of some, I hope, political purchases. The dilemma, whether an insurance company or a pension company, to this dilemma is never sufficiently substantiated, even after a closed meeting and following the continuation of the parent's working body, should be said in public, well-intentioned. 152 million of the insurance company’s initial capital is never shown in the calculation. I hope to state politically, especially if you're listening to unions. And what did they get because they didn't get the number they wanted? They only got 152. This is another political bargaining that raises serious questions. Third number. It's written in the law, 50 million must be given every year to the ZPIZ up to a certain date. Never a reasonable calculation. What if there's no 50 million return? Will they sell off the property? They're going to borrow? Based on the ideas that were and are not present, there were even more painful ideas or more problematic ones. The unions got one concession, pensioners, here I don't think DeSUS would think anyone would think, but they got another concession. And in this concession, although my parliamentary group is co-signatory, but this does not change the fact, note the text, "two members on a proposal from a union or organization of pensioners at state level". What's that? If only it said, "Representative Retirement Association." I know those who have succeeded with this concession see themselves in here. But now you can find a skilled organizer, and the pensioners organize, and the Grey Panthers from Hodosh to Tolmin from the other side, and then someone will be embarrassed, which is this organization of pensioners at the state level. It is not appropriate for such a text to be written in law. But this is the result of such politicians, these are not even political in a positive sense, shopping. And this has to be said because it's a serious matter, it's a serious consequence, and the whole event has been. It is also important for the public to say that when some of us at the committee meeting announced that we would rather support the idea of a pension society than an insurance company that is less risky, but does not offer the possibility of selling new products that everyone is studying ambitiously, but they do not say, at the expense of what or which capital they would like to settle, then the meeting was suspended. The result of such a suspension and continuation is some solutions that are not worthy of the National Assembly if they are accepted as they were, because they are serious matters and they are oversimplifying things when some imagine that they can be so colorful in this serious problem that is within Kad. Why do pensioners of that share, public servants do not take on self-governance and manage a closed pension society, but take full responsibility for such solutions? On the other hand, those who can see that the organisation of pensioners at state level has been seriously wronged, but there is another organisation that will also demand its place. I hope that, through this second procedure, and that the articles will be open, that, however, in the third reading, the law will be amended in such a way that it will make sense to support it, because one that has now come after the meeting of the parent working body does not deserve support, as some amendments do not deserve support, even if they are coalitionly signed or otherwise, and I speak on my behalf, I will not support the amendment to Article 2 as it is written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Vizjak, would you like to discuss it? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u142	Of course, there was no better introduction for the opposition MP. We would now expect to praise this solution of the government after two members of the coalition's parliamentary groups have poured a gallon of dissatisfaction on these solutions. I don't know, well, now that I'm pushing too hard after that, then I'll do more damage than good, but I have some concerns myself. I fully agree with my fellow Member, Mr Willi Trofenic, who says that solutions are the product of some political purchases, not just political purchases, but some appetites after some interesting business in the future. In fact, to take over an insurance company that has an additional pension policy, which means that there is already considerable capital here, to manage it and to go into business with new insurance products, is relatively nice. Especially if you don't even have a business plan, and of course if you have some super start-up basis, you'll probably be named by one KAS or not, at the head of this insurance company, and then, of course, some business career of an individual who will take the lead in this insurance company can be interesting. Even if we know, for example, a couple of these yuppies who had a lot of money. You only remember the Porsche of Mr. Auer and the like. So it's actually true, these solutions are worrisome. Look, I've attached myself to a member of the Council who was cautious and saw the insurance company as a pension company. Why? Because of the fact that the pension company is a specialised insurance company only for these insurance products, Kad or this part of Kad has already done so far. So it wasn't a classic insurance company, it was a specialized insurance company for these insurance products. People have entered these insurance products with the knowledge that they are dealing only with these insurance products and that these insurance products are relatively low and bring low risks. So, and the risks and the benefits are low, but probably the people who were in here, they went consciously. Now, all of a sudden, this will become an insurance company where, at the expense of this insurance product, an additional pension product, new insurance products will be put in place, which will stand at some cost at the start and are, as a rule, more risky than they are, basic. This will increase the activity and increase the risk. However, the risk will also increase for those inside pension insurance. This is, in my opinion, somewhat controversial and questionable. It may be true that if we vote that it is a pension society, we are closing some door to the development of this insurance company, a special insurance company. Maybe. Perhaps we are also limiting it to risks and thereby protecting the interests of those inside. That is why I have been detained by myself and have supported the solutions to make this transformation within a specialised insurance company or pension company. And I think that such a solution would be better in the first stage of the transformation. But when I noticed how much coalition interest there is for this to become an insurance company, then I actually began to share my belief with the coalition MPs that it was some sort of bargaining and that there was some kind of business in the back. The supervisory councils and administrations are probably set up in advance and everything else is known, but there is no business plan. Just what they're gonna do, not what they're gonna do. Or they do, but they don't want to say it because they say it's a business secret. I therefore believe that it is behind this transformation of the Capital Society of Pensions and Disability Insurance to pursue certain coalition interests after the management of certain companies and after the management of certain transactions that Kad has previously done in this area. It is very difficult for me to imagine, dear Government, that you will invent an effective way of managing the country's financial and real property, if you do not know or have not defined what the country's strategic investments are, which are those specific investments that are in the interest of the country and which the country will not sell or sell, say, in minority packages, or will seek for their portfolio investments and which it will sell immediately or which it will sell within a specified time frame. If these concepts were known, they could also involve an organisation or appropriate infrastructure to manage and dispose of them. I believe that there is some sort of search for solutions in the pit to convince European, global monetary and other authorities that we are separating management functions from regulatory functions. So that in some ways we are moving away from governance itself, and on the other hand, we all know that in these agencies and institutions people will be named who are close to the coalition; so far it has not happened that this has not happened since this government has been in charge. To say that an agency will provide independent management, independent management policy, but at the same time the government has an important word in appointing and managing this agency, is, to say the least, ridiculous. You have already proved this in a specific case of NLB, where you have appointed the Chairman of the NLB administration, which is supposed to be an independent, largest financial institution in the country elected Member of the National Assembly, that is, a policy. And I don't know who you convinced that it was a professionally independent name, maybe professionally, but independently, it certainly wasn't. And you will probably also find experts for the managers of this property, because in Slovenia there are a lot of educated people of different professions, economists and most of all, and you will surely have an economist sitting here and you will say that, which is the profession. However, which phones and when they will sing to this man is another question and I will never know. Especially because coalitions in similar compositions have so far been severely mixed with the shares of various companies and sold them to their loyal ones, such as the tycoon. Bojan Petan is one of those who very quickly acquired certain shares in a variety of Slovenian companies. I think it's probably such, hungry or not hungry, full, but always hungry mouths, in the background huge enough to push their ambitions after that. And you're going to say, look, this is an independent professional institution that runs state property. They will do professionally what they have done, politics cannot do anything, we must not interfere with their work. This will be a performance for the public – of course you do not hope to sell today because there are low prices of shares, but in good times you will probably repeat what you have already seen, and you will distance yourself from all of this. Therefore, respectable, if you wanted - and I think it is right that you have embarked on a project of central management with financial and real property - but you should, before going on such trips in the framework of marriage proposals, clarify what you want to keep in majority state ownership and what is not. See, because you couldn't get together about NLB, for the New Ljubljana Bank, which is, I think, the latest data, in 48% of indirect and direct state ownership, and good 2% also have funds managed by state administrators. So, even with this investment, the state doesn't really know what it wants. We are listening yesterday to the President of the Government, who says he sees no reason why we should not reduce the role of the state in this society, reduce its share, find some strategic investor, a recapitaliser we already have. This is exactly why the NCBs would be in this New Ljubljana Bank. So she's going to buy a smaller package in the first phase, and in the second phase, she's going to buy a complete package. And if your previous government was on the road because we were opposed and we didn't go into this second phase, we could now apply it and tell KBC that you have a majority package here and that's it. Now one of you says yes, one says no. So neither the President of the Government, nor the former Minister of Economic Affairs, nor the Minister of Finance, can unite around one investment, this is about NLB's investment. Then where is Petrol, Telekom, NKBM and a whole bunch of insurance companies, energy companies and so on? If I needed a strategic investor's assessment where I needed it, this is, say, energy for a concrete block 6 project. We have always advocated, including the SDS or the previous government has given its strategic projects and programmes, the search for a strategic co-investor for this project, which is very expensive and in fact needs some external capital. So if you want to reorganize management of real and financial property and separate it from the state, then you need additional functions or transactions that he had under this pension insurance, then you should first have a clear concept of what to do with this property and then, of course, you could fold it into a network or an organizational form. Now I see that you are breaking this law just as any coalition party feels exactly or what interests are probably or are recognized. I am not saying that Mr Chapič and Mr Trofenic have any or no interests, but they have probably felt behind all these discussions. We in the opposition, we also get a little hair up, when we hear something like this, we are careful and eager to make things happen, we want things to be done in a clear and transparent way, donkeys in two steps. I think that such a legal solution, which lies before us, is very lacking, does not answer the essential questions and creates some new unnecessary conflicts and opens up a vast array of suspicions of some clientistic corruption. That not only do we speak in opposition but we speak in opposition, as you will be able to tell us, as we will speak in opposition. It is then difficult to believe in the light and expertise of these presented projects.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Yeah. Do you have a replica, Mr. Trophynik? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u144	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to use a replica of my colleague Visian, because now we've spoken to three Styrians, and also on the board we've spoken three Styrians and we've become suspicious that we're representing a criminal group that wants to do something in a negative sense. I have to – or I am speaking a little in a joke, but in that sense it was – I have to say clearly and loudly, although we are three Styrians, we are not cooperating, we are thinking in a similar way. Now, the real part of the replica, now I've abused it, just to get my word out, I can honestly admit my guilt. But the real part is intended for a fellow visionary, well-intentioned. When you said you were afraid it was best that you were quiet so you wouldn't do any harm. No, no, no. All together, we can do no matter what position we are in, what is useful if we join forces for a good purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u145	Thank you. Since it's still an interest, I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Mr. Žnidaršič, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I cannot support this amendment, nor can any other amendment, because they cannot repair the damage that this law will bring, which we cannot support. In fact, the first reason is the principled nature. The Coalition Treaty provides that Kad's assets, I mean the reserve assets of the first compulsory pension insurance, will be returned to the management of the PPIZ, whose owners are pensioners and no one else. And we're acting here and talking about state property, which is really this moment of formal state, but it was nationalized 1996 by a change of law, but before that it was property of pension and disability insurance and it was a long-term reserve. It may not have been a good deal, but until today we have not discussed it and we have not revised the agreement. That's one thing. Second, the fact is that the property of Kad, the compulsory pension insurance, is mixed with the supplementary pension insurance of public servants and is covered from the first pillar and covered by the loss in the second pillar. So he's not serving his purpose. And, of course, other representatives and participants in the second pillar have great appetites that when they cover their pensions in the future, without realizing that the solution was not actually good, instead of a 2% increase in salary, it goes to the second pillar, from which there will be no 10% of the pension, and will be a 10% lower basis for calculating the pension of the first pillar if, for example, we have a ten-year average if there is more, but there will be a similar case. In short, it's some kind of scam that won't make a good thing out of it. The third reason is the fact that when he's already been doing imprudent business. Unfortunately, the Supervisory Board, for example, did not play its part. Our President of DeSUS, for example, as far as I'm aware, did not blink with the midwife or when Kad bought the Hit Stocks at three times the price they were on the open market. And "nothing." They said they lost two jobs, but probably with a nice profit and a lot of people would lose their job for a big pile of money and not go to jail for it. In other words, I fear that future management will also be imprudent and not always in favour of those whose property is Kad's property, the capital company of the first or compulsory pension insurance. It is naive to believe that any supervisory committee or future matter would run differently, even though the agency will manage this property. Indeed, in response to the State Council's veto on the Agency, the Government stated that the deficit would be covered by these funds in both the Court and the budget. All three of them will go crazy in there. Thus, there is no guarantee that this property will in fact be in line with its fundamental purpose. Next, the insurance company is a risky business. It's nice to set up an insurance company, too, and -- let's say, with William Trofenic, we would immediately set up an insurance company if someone gave 160 million initial capital. If it works, we'll enjoy it if it doesn't work out, whoever's given the capital. With our hands in our pockets, we would come to the administration for a good salary, and we would have a board of directors who would at the price of a meeting and any reward for the current year confirm everything we would have decided within the possession of this property. That's the problem for me. However, if we were to return this property to the ZPIZ, it could be completely independent of the government's or the National Assembly's policies, which would be so long as we manage this property in a good way, but if not, we will go. And the matter would be concluded without a policy, without any participation of either party or evil intentions that have been realized in the past. This proved to be true when we questioned the President of the Capital Society administration on an investigative committee, and there is therefore no doubt about it. I can't support it; not the amendments and not the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u148	Thank you very much. When we set up the Capital Investment Management Agency, we have set up a tool, a mold, so that we can properly manage our investments, in fact by reshaping Kada and the Court to this mold. Of course, the question now is how will we reshape this content so that it is most appropriate. I have fellow Members whose opinion I respect, an reasoned opinion, which brings a different conclusion and raises the question, as was finally heard by the opposition, that the establishment of an insurance company is not the most meaningful and it is better to establish a pension society. I respect this position, but I must say that the arguments so far, as well as the disclosure of the business plan of a possible insurance undertaking, if established, have convinced me at a closed meeting mainly because of a simple, logical conclusion. If we have the possibility of establishing an establishment, an economic company, however we want to name, which is strictly limited to one insurance product in our business, but at the same time we also have the opportunity to establish an institution with this capital, which, of course, operates this insurance product – I am talking about pension insurance – but at the same time it can perform more flexible and profitable products – we usually talk about pension insurance at the same time and together with life insurance – and thus allow greater profitability; therefore, point one, greater profitability of this institution, and point two, we will also allow more choices in the selection of the life insurance product to the insurers, because they will not choose only existing ones, but will also have a new insurance company that will enable them to have this product and which is, among other things, state-owned; therefore, why they would not choose this more flexible way, possibly profitable, at least the existing data of the insurance companies, at least, show that the insurance companies can be more reliable profit. So why don't we go into this form and say no from the beginning; with that self-restraint logic, we will bind our institution's hands so that it can only do exactly this but nothing more creative, no more profitable, no more meaningful or to say: here's capital, here's our direction and our direction is good, quality work in favour of pensioners, at the same time as we want to enable this institution to function as effectively and profitablely as possible. And because of that simple logic, I think it's a decision about the insurance company. Of course, I respect the arguments that there may be different business here, but you know, this argument is always heard when we talk about economic matters when we talk about things that generate returns. Normally, where there's a yield, there's an appetite. But for this reason, it must be a state and there must be instruments that make those appetites impossible if they are illegal. But if they're legal, there's nothing wrong with them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 2 and the amendment to this Article? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate and move on to Article 6 and the amendment of the coalition to this Article. Yes, I am opening an application for a debate on Article 6 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Chappich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u150	Thank you so much for saying that. This Article 6 is also a model of some compromise or some negotiation between stakeholders. If I remember the first variants of this law, it said: the bond, then it was the sum, then there were some percentages, there were about 41 million, and now we suddenly landed on 50 million as an obligation, and of course it was the yield, without saying, of course, what happens when it doesn't yield, and what happens when the yield is possibly higher. I took a little look at the numbers they were bringing. In fact, the explanation was that this is a ten-year average, this is some calculation, and it can be "left-handed". 50 million is less than if the State of Capital managed by Kad – I am talking about capital dedicated to the pension fund and to the financing of the pension fund, not pension funds – this capital is about a billion two hundred and has decreased during this period also because, of course, the capital itself has decreased, but even more. And if I look at the dividend returns in 2006, 38 million, 2007 40 million, 2008, because there was already a crisis year, 24 million and 2009 15 million 793 thousand euros, which means that the dividends and returns from these investments are falling. Makes sense. For companies do not pay their profits, do not give them, but invest back, invest in survival, and by the way, profits have been reduced, so that the value of capital remains, but the return from this capital is not real. The second part, of course, is interest income. In 2008 17 million 473 thousand, in 2009 15 million 805 thousand. Here too, values are falling, and even if capital does not fall, the real values of this fall. These are the data from the Kad report. Now I wonder, where did 50 million come from? How can 50 million be fulfilled in order to meet this obligation, which is agreed with the partners within this framework? Because this is a marriage obligation and 30. The 9th will have to tell Zpiz. Or perhaps, as we received in the notice, I, too, have been a public servant for several years and I have been saving for the age of the Capital Society in a closed mutual fund where, of course, in 2008 they did not reach a guaranteed return in the mutual fund and they simply took 40 million, as they wrote, from their own resources and transferred to the fund's monetary account. Of which own resources? What are Kada's own assets? Whether they are funds and they are managed, which means that they have cut this capital by 40 million. And if we want a story of 50 million to have, plus costs, plus some other things, capital will have to be reduced, which in the long run means that this capital will no longer be. However, we have written in the coalition contract that this capital must remain and that it is a long-term investment and that from the dividends we receive from this we invest in the pension fund. This was a basic idea and, of course, from this point of view, this cannot be supported because it is the same story. And that's how it's gonna be in the insurance company. When there is no guaranteed return, which must be legally determined and determined, capital will be reduced. And as fellow Member Žnidaršič said, when this capital is gone, we will pick up the suitcases and we will go, but we don't know what will happen. Because we were able to even get into a dirty business in the insurance company or in the application of new products, we did not get a certain income or certain things. In this respect, it is not possible, at least on my part, to support such an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u151	Thank you. Mr. Trophynic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u152	Thank you for your word. To avoid repeating itself; to write into the law that someone must give an exact amount, and this amount should be created as income from asset management, is, to say the least, forgive the term, stupid and irresponsible. Such texts as this article is already original, and especially with the amendment now, you can come not with political but with political shopping. Property When intended to benefit from this property is co-financed by the cost of pensions. The pension register has three sources: contributions, transfers from the state budget, and this revenue as a rule. One of these three sources we want to legally define per millimeter. What if the income or income from the management of this property is $80 million? What happens if there's $40 million, and what happens if there's nothing? This is also possible or income will be negative. In any case, every income should go to pensions. But why is it so, nicely put, butalically written, is revealed in the following or in the second paragraph, which says: "... under the law governing pension and disability insurance and provides for the coordination of pensions, the remit is used for this coordination." I'll just stay with this sentence – look, it's interesting! We have three resources for pensions, domestically: contributions, transfers from the state budget, which will also have to be cleared, and this income from property, or from Kad. Now we say that this part that comes from property owned by Kad must go for coordination, as if all pension costs were not unit costs. Of course, there is speculation here to justify and explain later that there is further coordination. First, we will have coordination – of course, the pensioners will jump into the air, but this is not manageable. First, we will have additional coordination in accordance with the law in force, and then, if we have additional money from this source, we will spend it on further coordination. That's the text, that speculation is written in there! Otherwise, it doesn't make any sense that this tex is so primitive, sorry, stupidly written down. What's going on is fog. "The profit from the operation of the company When the transferred profit remains on the item, if of course, and may be used for the purposes referred to in paragraph 1..." That's what you're saying. It can be used for remittances. I don't know where they're going to take another source — will they sell the property? Then he won't be able to wire these in a while. Now, if this income or profit is more than that 50 million, as it has indicated, this says, "a possible balance can be earmarked for the purchase of new investments". We're going to invest that. But this text does not take account of the other situation; that last year there was no profit of 50 million was only 30. And by law, 50 had to be cashed out, so 20 had to be borrowed. And the second year is going to be 70 million, 50 has to be cashed out, but 20 can't be returned from this address, but you can invest it. This is related and gives the possibility of a link to that dilemma: an insurance company or a pension company. They are looking for all possible routes to capital that would allow some – nicely said – new products. But in the end, it can actually be a potential damage to pensioners. This text of the amendment, this is my personal position, regardless of whether the co-signatory is also our parliamentary group, would be irresponsible to support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u153	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? I can see the hand. I'm opening the application. We are talking about Article 6 and the amendment of the coalition to this article. Mr. Zanoškar, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Thus, perhaps a little diametrically with my predecessor's discussion, let me say that in the DeSUS Group we support the changes of the law in its entirety and with these amendments, of which we are cosigners, including the amendment to Article 6. We think that Kad is the institution that's been servicing and servicing the ZPIZ and somehow taking care of this pension fund. However, the definition and amendment to Article 6 provides that these 50 million, which would be generated from Kad's returns, are intended for the coordination of pensions. And it seems to us that at this time and even in the light of the adoption of a new pension reform, when there is likely to be an increasing problem with funding and pension allowance, it is only right that at least this money – in fact 50 million does not mean a whole lot, but it does mean some basis for coordination – is intended for the pension fund. Of course, we are optimistic, optimistic in this sense, that we believe that Kad will do well, that he will bring good, that he will be more and more than 50 million, that the rest of this profit in Kad will also help to make new investments and buy new investments and invest in something new. Thus, on the basis of the proposaler, who considers 50 million to be a sustainable number, which would be good for PPIZ and the harmonisation of pensions, should remain in this respect. So, we're in favour of this, so we also support this amendment because we don't think 50 million is too much, it's not the amount that When I couldn't. We want and also expect Kad to operate in such a way that these 50 million will be covered by his returns and that there is likely to be something left, and that it is right that this money is earmarked for PPIZ, for the coordination of pensions. So this is what the DeSUS Group, which thus supports all the solutions that go well with the PPIZ, which go to the welfare of the pensioners and pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you. Do you have a replica? Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u156	Anyway, I hate to break it to you, but I have to get back to my colleague, or he mentioned me, so I have a formal right to a replica so there won't be any misunderstandings, but look. This is the deception of pensioners and potential pensioners. If someone thinks that with some text, such a strange one, he will help with quality legislation, then I am deeply convinced that he is wrong. Of course, this is nothing to the benefit of the pensioners. Pensioners have the right to a pension in accordance with the law and have the right under the law to harmonised pensions. The sources are the resources that the system provides and we cannot have in one pocket for coordination and in the other pocket for basic pensions. And don't be the one you want and take to be a little mean, the right to represent exclusively the interests of pensioners, so naive that someone takes you thirsty over water! Pensions are a single cost when talking about pensions, valorised or harmonised pensions. And they can't be a pension under A, paraphrasing a fellow praiser, and a pension under B. That's what it says. First we'll pay the basic pensions, then we'll coordinate them. And we'll have one in one pocket and the other in the other pocket. Make fun of retired people who are scared of being taken from them. With such things of course — what if there is an emergency, regardless of the legal arrangement, when will the insurance company not be able to direct these 50 million? Then, according to your logic, there will be no alignment. A higher power can also cause a violation of the law, I'll say. Pension is a single cost and it is necessary to fight to make pensions suitable, and I will say here in a God-awful way that we missed a unique opportunity, even though employers will jump to correct certain things, both in the contribution to pensions and for health insurance. No matter what condition! That's a fact. Look what the Germans are doing! Now, if we're rocking here with something, it's really about everything else in the back: who's going to be sitting in the control organs, who's going to get another favor, and then like little kids, when we buy them a lollipops from one pocket and chocolate from another pocket, they're going to have a bigger fantasy and they're more pleased to get one or another gifts. To the pensioners, this text is irresponsible! And so, of course, it cannot be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u157	Thank you. Is there still a desire to discuss it? I'm opening the application. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u158	Your Honor! In this law it would probably be good for the ruling coalition to read its coalition treaty again. Although we have read this over and over in this National Assembly, I think it has been five times. And we've all come to realize that it's working against the coalition treaty. In this coalition contract, you have written about When to transform it so that you can manage the property in order to provide funds for the pension fund separately, so that you can ensure the professionality and autonomy of the management of the state property; and what is essential, the property of this new organisation, you have written in the coalition contract, you will transfer from the country to the Pension and Disability Insurance Office. You don't do this with amendments or this law. On the contrary, you want to centralise the management of state property in some way and, on the other hand, move it away from parliamentary and other controls in order to be able to manage this large cake. When there is only one part in this story, one part in this new Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia is an important part, but in the way that this transformation is made in the case of the transformation of Kad as well as in the case of the transformation of management with all other state, financial and real property, it is avoided by some normal parliamentary supervision as is known by all regulated democratic countries. And what would least be expected in connection with the amendments tabled is, of course, to respect what you have committed yourselves to and what you have provided to your voters during the elections, especially after them. It is strange that the ruling coalition, and above all the government, is not fulfilling those political commitments it has made and based its programme. That this is not the case and that there are contradictions between yourselves, both in this law and in the amendments tabled, as in individual concepts, where what has been said today by one of the Members is actually happening, that it is obvious that it is only a struggle between individual lobbyists who have such or different resistances in this Parliament. That's very bad. It is particularly weak for the stability of the pension system, it is bad for the stability of the pension funds that you are reshaping in an inadequate way with this law, and it is bad for the safety of all those who have already paid into these funds for years and years, because they are more shocked every day that they will not have a scenario that is happening in some other countries, when insurance companies dealing with savings in these funds fall in addition to banks. I hope that this will not happen in Slovenia, and therefore it would be better to reject this law, to finally come to the National Assembly with a normal concept, because all of these amendments, which are tabled, if adopted, will not change anything, the law will only be more confusing and even more dangerous that this predatory logic, which was somehow already justified by the law on the transformation agency or the management of the country's financial investment, will continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u159	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Anyone else? Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u160	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! First, I would like to ask representatives of the coalition and representatives of the government why the provisions of the coalition agreement are not being implemented. What are the reasons why it has deviated from the solutions enshrined in the coalition agreement and are proposing solutions that are different from that? This can be answered by a representative of the Government, but also by representatives of coalition groups in the National Assembly. I think the answer is to explain to us the reasons why you put the matter so diametrically differently than you wrote it into a coalition agreement at the beginning of your term, that we deserve to know why we are all in the National Assembly. This, however, may also need to be explained to a number of coalition members who have not deepened in the terms of the coalition agreement and who, without a reservation, take the decisions proposed by the Government and are not as set out in the Coalition Treaty. Now, if at this time the basis had changed that it was necessary to change solutions from one year, year and a half ago, then it would also be correct to adopt a coalition agreement's rebalance. This would be the most normal way to redefine the foundations on which this coalition will operate. However, apparently everything arranged in the same way as last time, the day, two years ago, was explained by the President of the Government, why we would waste time with the formulations and preparation of some written documents, if we could arrange it orally, with quick talks and then deal with months and months of interpretation of what someone thought, what someone said and so on. In short, it would be good for you to explain these reasons to us politicians, because most of us are not aware for reasons, and I believe that most of the coalition does not know why this has happened, but it would be particularly good to explain this to Slovenian pensioners, why it is necessary to move the assets away, to move them to somewhere else, to be managed by a third agency to which the National Assembly does not have any access, and why not as set out in the coalition agreement. Here we can only find once more that, in this mandate, the role of the National Assembly as a supervisory institution over the executive branch of power has been expressly withdrawn. Everything is left to various agencies, various companies, various bodies that are removed from the direct control of the National Assembly, and all this with some interpretation, some explanation that it is necessary for me to approach matters professionally and so on. In short, judging by how professional things are going on, it is best to look at only diagrams showing the results of the country's performance over the past two years, and we will see which professions we have trusted with this asset. As long as the National Assembly had a supervisory function over this area, things were still working out, and the more the supervisory function of the National Assembly withdraws, the worse things go. This is a direct correlation, you can check, you can see what has moved away in this mandate and what trend has taken place from there. However, I would like, my fellow Members, a distinguished representative of the Government, to explain the reasons why the solution is different from that enshrined in the coalition agreement. This can also be explained by Mr Potrč, some other leader of the parliamentary group, so that we will know other Members as well as perhaps coalition members, why solutions are proposed differently from those promised, and even what is rare in this coalition is written down. This is a fundamental explanation to be expected at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u162	Yes – silence, no answers. That is why things need to be said more clearly, it seems that we do not understand each other. The coalition treaty is a political commitment; it is a political direction for the government and for this coalition. This government and this coalition are in direct violation of their public-given political commitment by this law. Why? This has not yet been explained by anyone in all these cases in the previous Capital Investment Management Agency Act. A very clear and unequivocally recorded commitment speaks of the fact that when you will reshape fully, not only these four pension funds, so that the property of this new organization will be transferred to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and that the effect of this management will entirely belong to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. Now you're arguing about 50 million euros a year. While, of course, not even that part of the four pension funds have been maintained in such a way as to establish a pension fund, you are setting up an insurance company and thereby increasing the risk for all those who have so far paid into these funds. In one way or another, he may release all public servants and any other person who has contributed this property to a greater risk to the future. And on the other hand, instead of doing what your political commitment under which you must act, legislation in the National Assembly must follow what the coalition treaty has said, instead of transferring all this property to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, as you have written down, you have done even more than is now enshrined in this law. Not only are you not doing this in this marriage, but even what was from the pensioners, you took from them with a previous marriage, with the one that made you scare Slovenia so that it wouldn't be able to enter the OECD. Since you have withdrawn the shares of the Triglav Insurance Company, which pensioners have elected on the basis of the referendum, you have abolished the pension insurance fund, which has over 3,000 pensions and transferred them to this agency. It is true, though, that the pensioners woke up very late; it seems that it takes more time under this government to see what happened. And only when the laws of the State Council were enforced did we hear a call from the pensioners that this was unacceptable. It is true, however, that we know where Mrs Mateja Kožuh Novak belongs and is now much more benevolent and quiet, rather than publicly and loudly pointing out things that are bad for the pension population and which pose a great risk to all these funds that have so far been made for this purpose, to reduce the risk of future pensions being paid. And at the same time, when you do this, we hear predictions that these pensions will freeze, so reduce, and reduce the rights of some who are legally regulated. So, a very clear question that requires an answer before you press the "yes" button: Why will you vote because you will obviously support this law against what you have publicly committed yourself to: against your political orientation as enshrined in your coalition contract?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u163	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u164	Thank you very much, Mr President. The questions raised at least in these last discussions call for answers. If we cannot get the answers of the competent representatives of the government or representatives of the coalition in the National Assembly, those who are here, I propose that we suspend the meeting of the National Assembly to ensure the participation of those government representatives who will be able to explain why this political difference and the solution proposed by the Government have arisen and is completely different from what is enshrined in the coalition agreement. This was also a fundamental platform for the preparation of solutions to be followed on this basis. I propose that, in accordance with the rules of procedure, the President-in-Office, because we cannot obtain and have no answers from Members, not from the leaders of the groups of Members, nor from the Government representative representing the Government. We can't get them. These reasons, however, are crucial and have not even been stated in the explanation of the law, why such a solution is proposed and not as it was written at the beginning of the mandate. I therefore propose that, in accordance with Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, or the 74th half-hours of the meeting of the Assembly of State, the President of the Government, the competent Minister of State, the Minister for Development or anyone, should come forward and explain the difference that has arisen. It is essential to decide on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u165	Mr Tanko, the respect for political promises made by certain policies is an issue that is not on the agenda. On the agenda is the law, we are talking about the reasons for the law, the content, the amendments and here we have Mrs Matejo Vraničar, who is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, who will probably respond to a lot of questions when she makes a statement. I cannot put to the vote because of this procedural proposal. Does anyone else wish to discuss Article 6 and the amendment to this Article? Do you still have a procedural proposal or debate? Here you go, Mr. Tanko. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I believe that, in such an easy way, the questions raised by Members of our Group cannot be addressed. It is a fundamental issue of the fate and development of the pension system, a fundamental issue of the preparation of funds and assets for the pension fund, a fate of several hundred thousand pensioners. In our parliamentary group, if you cannot give political reasons, we want professional reasons for such changes and such a withdrawal from the coalition treaty. This, however, must be done by those who have been sent to the National Assembly in order to defend a governmental solution, and this reason must and must provide us with these reasons and also give appropriate answers. It is not their choice whether or not they want to answer, it is their obligation to respond. I therefore propose that we suspend the meeting of the National Assembly and also provide an expert explanation as to why these differences have occurred, which are fundamental, and what reasons have led to this. And our Members and our Group certainly want to know this. We are not interested in whether coalition parties need reasons for change, and in our Group we want the reasons for such a thorough professional derogation from the coalition agreement to be clarified. And if it cannot be explained by the government coalition in the National Assembly, if the State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance cannot explain it, then we propose or require another competent government representative to explain this to us, who will be able to tell us about these matters. Once again, the reasons for this change are not stated in the explanation of the law. They are not included in the explanation of the law, so we also request the suspension of the meeting and the provision of an appropriate advocate for the proposed solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u167	Thank you. Well, once again, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Secretary of State represents the opinion of the Government and how it represents this opinion and when it is included is a matter of its free choice. That is why I cannot put a proposal to the vote. However, Mr Visjak made a statement to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u168	Thank you very much. I think that the coalition agreement is not just a written word, it's a political commitment that usually comes about on the basis of pre-election promises. Pre-election promises, however, are often important for the formation of such or different authorities or governments. People decide, I must say, also on the basis of the promises and commitments made by political organisations or political parties to their constituents. And one of the, say, housing solutions, although relatively unique, is also the party DeSUS, which has always talked about how it fights for pensioners and represents their interests. It is likely that the provision concerning Kad's property, which originates from the title of the first and second pension pillars in Kad, is a commitment that was, more or less of a substantive nature and has in some way protected the interests of pensioners, current and future. Why? In view of the fact that this property is to go into the management of the PSI, there will be some guarantee of stability in the payment of pensions. So, I guess the pre-election promise in this way has turned into a coalition commitment, and now I'm assessing that it's some kind of leverage - the weight of the electorate, the weight of all those who initially believed that someone would protect the interests of the pensioners in the government and in politics. Now it's relaxed, probably for some lobbyists who have other plans and purposes with this property and who want to manage it within some insurance company set up by Kad - When will the owner of this insurance company. And diametrically different than was promised and bound. So, the weight. It's a clean-up. Politics does something different than she's committed to doing. And then the "unfortunate" or "unfortunate" opposition, of course, wants to explain, under the terms of the phrases, what happened, why it happened, whether it was a strong, different substantive reason, because of the coalition contract it is some year and a half to make it better now, as we have in the coalition contract and it is a coalition agreement ad acta. No, no, no. We don't get that either. In fact, I do not expect this from the Secretary of State, because the Secretary of State has not tabled or the Government has not tabled this amendment. Behind this amendment is someone else - a coalition - and I ask, and I have heard three representatives of the coalition or four so far, Mr Zanoškar was fourth, but earlier they spoke to Mr Čepič, Mr Trofenik and Mr Žnidaršič. From this I understood that the coalition is still on the same, I would say, the position as stated in the coalition contract; but, look at the fraction, and the amendment of the coalition groups goes elsewhere, requires another solution. Now, understand if you can! I've been in politics for, like, 10 years, I don't understand. We have a proposal from the Government, we have an amendment of coalition parliamentary groups to which members of the coalition oppose, and no one answers why this amendment and what the mission, content and reasons are for this amendment. There's more to this silence! This silence also suggests that there are no substantive arguments that there are obviously some pressures of the lobby in the background, which are reason enough to accept such an amendment, but we will not talk about it. And here I am joining Mr Žnidaršič, and I too will be among those who would manage these 170s and a few more million; if we are going to "run" we will "run" abroad, but if we get anything, we will be richly rewarded. Such a principle is a worrisome, dangerous and can be a precedent for many other "excursions" with public money – or not public money, with insurance money in this particular case. So, indeed, this silence is more than a visual one and only a confirmation of these suspicions that there can be some biased clienteleistic form of interest for these proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr. Tanko spoke, do you have a procedural proposal? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u170	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. The third paragraph of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure states: "The President shall terminate the work of the National Assembly if it is found that the decision-making session is no longer final if consultations are required before the decision-making process and in other cases, if so decided by the National Assembly. If the National Assembly decides that it is necessary to obtain opinions from working bodies, the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government, the chairman shall terminate the agenda item under consideration and may also terminate the meeting of the National Assembly." I have proposed that in the debate we obtain the views of the Government that the Government should explain the reasons for this amendment to the law, which is different from that set out in the coalition agreement, and I propose that the President-in-Office be suspended until we have received appropriate explanations from the Government. Indeed, it is not possible to hold a debate in such a way that the opposition asks, and the coalition and the government about this subject matter to which someone is supposed to answer – and we know who the proposer is in this case, he should answer – but there are no answers. Representatives of the Government do not have any dissidents to decide to answer what they think they are responding to, they are obliged to answer all the questions raised. In our parliamentary group, we demand that we get an expert explanation of why this amendment has taken place in this law, which is significantly derogating from the coalition agreement. Therefore, we propose to break the agenda item. Dear President, you can determine when the point will continue. However, since this is fundamental to the debate on amendments and the vote on the law, we would like to obtain appropriate explanations on the issues raised here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u171	Mr Tanko, the amendments have been tabled by the parliamentary groups. Whether they explain it or not, it is a matter of their political culture. We have a representative of the government who can also give the government an opinion on this amendment. All the conditions for further discussion are present and I will not put this proposal to the vote. Mr Zanoskar took the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr President. Say good-bye again! See, this amendment to Article 6 is not a debate or opening a debate on whether or not the coalition treaty is being breached, but it is precisely the content to be discussed. Well, since there are so many comments in this debate on this amendment to Article 6 that we do not advocate the interests of pensioners and pensioners, then, on behalf of the Democratic Party of Pensioners and our Group of Members, let me say this. From the very beginning, we follow the amendments to the law, and from the very beginning we closely monitor all these moves and proposals by the applicants. In any event, at any stage of the process, we would find that anything is going against and against the interests of pensioners and pensioners, then be assured that as much as you are all other mentally concerned about our pensioners and pensioners, then surely our parliamentary group and the Democratic Party of pensioners would be the first to point out that the infringements are about reducing rights or reducing some situation in the future. However, from the very beginning, of course, we overwinded either the pension company or the insurance company, and from this, after reasoned discussions and arguments, we assessed that the insurance company was what would bring some new value, which would extend the range of all these offers it could offer, and thus contributed in some way to the urgent returns in Kad itself. That was our decision. Further, when the debate on the loss of the debtors or beneficiaries, i.e. the insured, pensioners and pensioners, the review of work, was also our amendment to Article 2 that the supervisory committee should be adequately integrated and set up a structure where the insured, i.e. pensioners and pensioners, will be represented. We recall that the congregation of Kod decided that one third of the representation in the congregation was made up of pensioners and pensioners. Thus, if we take this Article 2 and the amendment to it, then you can see that our Group of Members has also taken care of the interests of pensioners and pensioners, and we want this part of the insurance and insurance companies to be included in the Supervisory Board, so that transparency of business is achieved and thus the interests of pensioners and pensioners are protected. However, let me say this in any way, whenever it is observed and it is concluded that the matter is not in the interest of the pensioners and pensioners to whom we still have a special feeling, a special relationship, then be assured that the first to warn the applicant and suggest that this proposal should not go forward; in this case, when we see that the matter is set in such a way as to protect the interests of all those who are not only beneficiaries, who are, after all, owners and co-owners of all assets with whom Kad manages, then it seems to us that the matter is entirely appropriate. Perhaps, however, further arguments on the part of the applicant should be heard at this point. I agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u173	Anybody else want to discuss this? I see multiple hands. I'm opening the application. We are at Article 6 and the amendment of the coalition to this Article. Mrs. Roach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u174	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will really only talk about Article 6 and the amendment to this article, not the entire history of the pension system of the Capital Society, pension funds and so on. The fact is that the amendment, which has been tabled and also adopted by the Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy Assembly, is now changing that the amended text has been harmonised among the coalition partners and that is why we have tabled it – all four parliamentary groups together. The debate about what used to be a chicken or an egg doesn't make any sense in this amendment. The point is whether it is realistic to calculate that each year the Capital Society could set aside EUR 50 million from its profits and direct them to the PIZ. Calculations have shown in those who have data for calculations that these 50 million can be counted real over a long period of time. So, for a few years, the money from this profit will remain at the rate of 50 million years, a few years may happen, but the sinusoid will go down and it will have to be drawn from undistributed profits, I will say domestically, not as experts require it to be properly said, but I am not an economist and therefore I do not know how to use these terms properly. It is, however, that that profit, which will not be used in the past, in the preceding year or in the preceding year, will be used to shift to the year when the capital company's profits will be lower than the expected EUR 50 million. But there's something else I have to say. Of course, 1.11% of the total amount required for the payment of annual pensions of all Slovenian pensioners, representing EUR 50 million, represents approximately 1.11% of the total amount needed for the payment of annual pensions, cannot guarantee the stability of the payment of pensions to Slovenian pensioners. You could call that strawberry on top of the cake, not half the cake. And for this reason, I think it is fairly sober, realistically estimated that the amount that ensures long-term preservation of capital in the Capital Society, which is owned by all pensioners in Slovenia and also those pensioners who will start drawing pensions when their time comes. Thus, we cannot talk about the EUR 50 million that the Capital Society will direct to the CAPIZ, jeopardising the capital sustainability of the Capital Society. Of course, it is her duty to manage capital in such a way that, in the long term, it retains value, is acquired at value and investments are so dispersed that it is simply not possible for a partial crisis to occur, of course, the global crisis can cause disaster, while the crisis in individual economic sectors, with a large share and a large share of the capital company's investments in government bonds being invested, which means real long-term investment security. I think that this amendment is correct and that it is right to support it and thus complement it, because it is also more professionally correctly written than the first text they have drafted, without offense, members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, who share with me the ignorance of the professional expression. That's why I think it would be right if we signed such an amendment all along.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u175	Thank you. Anyone else? Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. Given that neither the drafters of the amendment, the Group of Members of the Coalition nor the Government want to explain why this difference has occurred, the discrimination between the coalition agreement and the solution proposed in accordance with Article 74, I propose that the debate and decision on this item of the agenda be postponed to one of the following meetings. Please put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u177	The debate is already under way and the vote can be moved to one of the following points when the debate is closed. Do you have a procedural proposal? Any other procedural suggestions? Mrs. Pecan, you want a debate? [[adverts from benches]] See, the procedural proposal to postpone voting to one of the following points will be completed when the debate is closed. But the debate is under way. There was no such procedural proposal at the beginning of the debate, Mr Tanko. Any other procedural proposals? No, no, no. I only saw one hand for the debate. Mrs. Roach.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u178	Thank you very much. I would read item 14 of the coalition agreement, which states: "The coalition partners will reshape the Capital Society so that we can organise the asset management in order to provide funds for the pension fund separately. We will transfer the ownership of this new organisation from the country to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance as a special capital fund, which will be separated from the current balance sheet of the STIZ." Now it's very important, it's about Article 6 and the amendment. "With salaries as a resource for the financing of pensions and the contribution of the State budget, the recast capital fund would generate additional revenue earmarked for additional health programmes for pensioners, in particular for long-term care." So the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance will be, because there is nothing to say about the purposes for which the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance will spend 50 million a year. Here in the coalition contract is the purpose, but the thing is the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and Pensioners, how they will spend this money. But I think the meaning and purpose of the coalition contract are good. I like him personally. I must say, when I retire, I will be very happy if these 50 million euros are spent on me being able to go to, say, a nursing hospital where my children will not be able to care for me if these 50 million are available for this purpose. So it is not true that there is any difference between the coalition contract and this; after all, I do not know what the coalition agreement has to do with this amendment. I don't understand that. I can be really stupid, but I'd rather be stupid than illogical.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr. Vizjak. A debate? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u180	Thank you very much. I'm very glad someone in the coalition reads the coalition contract. It is also very interesting that he interprets it as he does not. No, it doesn't say. Now, if it's written that we understand, if that means, I don't know, a locomotive, then that sheet of paper can also be a locomotive, if that's how we understand it. But this sheet of paper is a sheet of paper. It's not a locomotive. Look what Mrs. Pechanova read. That the property of pension funds within Kato will be transferred to a special fund within the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance. What are we doing now? We are now transferring this to an insurance company which, by the way, will deal with other insurance products and probably risks and, of course, would be completely different from the pension funds. And then don't let anyone else tell me it's not about the pensioners! What the hell! In fact, at first they are promised that the assets that Kad has for these purposes will be transferred to a special fund of ZPIZ, which is a guarantee for the stability of ZPIZ. This is a coalition proposal under the coalition agreement, and now the solution with the amendment of the coalition is that this property will be transferred to an insurance company that will deal with everything else, not just pension insurance - probably. Now somebody tell me how this insurance company builds on the stability of the pension system. I don't think so. [[adverts from benches]] Yes, I know, Mrs Pečanova, that you are reluctant to listen to this, but to me, it is a disdainful constant interference with rights that are not some of the rights that the coalition shares. Pensioners' rights are the rights deriving from their work, from insurance, and you here cut them off on those rights just as you like. We would not rationalise public administrations, but you are squeezing where, in my opinion, it is also constitutionally controversial to squeeze; that is, where people have money invested for their years, when they will no longer work and when they will retire. And the first thing you did was to respect all those who "care for the pensioners" under the terms, within the coalition, that you've halved their pension coordination, now you're predicting the freezing of pensions. You have this kind of pension fund exercise, as we now see in this law, so you're transferring it to some insurance company that will be able to deal with some insurance tomorrow. You're talking about care here, and I don't know what. The question is, if this insurance company doesn't cover any, I don't know, management insurance against liability and the like. So, I just want to point out that the actions of everything other than those beautifully-sounding commitments that you, by the way, have read a little bit earlier. And at least what it is is the duty of the opposition to warn you of this duality; perhaps because you will not do it. And not only because you will not do it, but also because you will do what it says in your programs and commitments, so you will work for the benefit of people and pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u181	Thank you. Mrs. Roach, would you like a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u182	It all turns out we're reading two different texts. First, it is explicitly written that asset management will be organised separately. No one said that current pensioners are not owners, indirectly, of capital in Kad. Another time. When you talk about Article 6 – it has nothing to do with the insurance company because it is before it is about the insurance company of the speech, but whatever it is, I will answer you anyway. This insurance company is an investment of Kad, but it is over the When Investment of ZPIZ. Thus, current pensioners have invested or agreed to invest 145 million dollars in the three pension funds that are still active today and invest money in pension funds, and what I know is how much money is already spent in order not to be too precise, in an insurance company that will manage three pension funds for future pensioners, while for the current pensioner, it will safely deposit money into an insurance company that will do something else. And the profit from this investment will go back to Kad and from Kad to ZPIZ. [[adverts from benches]] A life insurance company usually has no loss anywhere in the world. Please don't teach me about it. I'm not an insurance agent, but I know that those insurance companies that have life insurance have no losses, they lose those who have car insurance; and they won't do car insurance. So, I think we're quite loyal to the terms that we've all written together in the coalition contract, and we're doing it now. And not to deceive the Slovenian public, but especially the pensioners, because it's a purely fictitious invention to scare them. Your concern with Kadu was different, that Kad sold Mercator shares to two private companies that then totally screwed it all up.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u183	Thank you. As more hands have risen, I am opening an application for debate. We are at Article 6 and the amendment of the coalition to this Article. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u184	Thank you. I'm afraid we've confused all those who follow, so it's clear and loud that the insurance company is created by the exclusion and gets 152 million assets and that this has nothing to do with this 50 million – yes, the discussion went on [[...]] But, Mrs. Pečanova, there's something you've made a mistake in explaining, justifying the amendment. The amendment, it has to be fair here, not in accordance with the coalition agreement. This amendment devotes spending on such or other coordination of pensions, which you have read, and is not in accordance with the coalition contract, but we must be honest because the coalition contract has a health purpose. I have to save time for something more important, so I can't thank you anymore. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Blackach.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u186	Well, now that Mrs Pecan's coalition MP has explained the matter, I probably don't have to explain it, because my words don't have that much weight for her, and it would be a waste of time. But there's something else to say. If we had this law on the table today, but it would not be the Law on the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, then it would be possible to understand one part of this debate, but we have adopted the Law on the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, and you have also put Kad — far from the Pension Institute and from the ZPIZ. Even more! By this law on the Agency, you abolished those articles where pensioners had the right of origin to manage the real estate fund of 3,000 apartments and transferred them to the agency. If you don't believe me, ask your former colleague, Mrs Matejo Kožuh Novak, who protested after the marriage was adopted after three sessions. You have abolished this fund, you have abolished a number of provisions in this law, you have transferred the shares of the Insurance Company Triglav, which the pensioners have elected through the referendum to this agency; and not now speak and pretend that this is not the case! I only asked how it could be that in the National Assembly, which is not the first case, you adopt laws that are contrary to your political commitments.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u187	Anyone else on Article 6 and the amendment to this article? Mr. Tanko. Debate; or [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u188	Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u189	Procedural proposal? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President. It does not help us much if the Government is present in the National Assembly, but we have repeatedly explicitly stressed that we want to gain the opinion of the Government and the Government, if we want to do so, it is our duty to give this opinion. That's what the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly require. and in the event that the Government has not given its opinion in accordance with Article 73, third paragraph, in the last sentence, we request that the Government give its opinion. And since the Government does not believe that this is already the fourth or fifth intervention, I propose that you put this procedural proposal to the vote to decide whether or not the Government needs this opinion from the National Assembly. And I ask you to put this to a vote so that we no longer deal with these jams and explanations between each other, and the coalition is not united in this. It is eloquent that the coalition treaty has been breached, the Government has not explained it, the coalition parliamentary groups that are proposing the amendment say their own, and therefore I want the honourable Presidents of the National Assembly to give the Government an opinion. And until the government gives an opinion, let's adjourn the meeting of the National Assembly. Please put this to the vote. I think it will be enough that the Government will organise itself and get an appropriate opinion on this solution, which is proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u191	Thank you. I think the representative of the government is present, and please respond to the dilemmas that have opened.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. So, the thing that we are discussing today in the National Assembly is the proposal for a law on the transformation of Kad and the Court, we are not discussing a coalition treaty, which is why I have not wanted to go so far and I do not want to be determined whether the law is in accordance with the Coalition Treaty or not. This is simply, in my view, not the subject of today's debate. If you want the opinion of the Government regarding the proposed law and the amendment to Article 6, let me explain the following. It was already stated in the first reading of the proposal that Kad to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance each year provide 50 million funds to be paid as expenditure or as operating expenses. The purpose of this provision is to provide or determine the long-term obligation of Kad, which must ensure, without jeopardising the assumption of a permanent undertaking, from the management of the funds it has at its disposal, that the undertaking is created without jeopardising the company’s assets. In view of the debate in the first reading of the draft law and in the second reading by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the provision was slightly amended or supplemented. Once again, I stress that the amount of EUR 50 million is fixed as an amount, as a remittance paid as an operating expenditure, not as a profit expenditure, but as an operating expenditure. It is based on the income generated by Kad’s assets management. In the second reading, the second paragraph of Article 6 was added to the Committee, which provides in the second sentence of the second paragraph, slightly inadequately or flawedly, for the remaining profit from the operation of Kad. This provision would mean that this undistributed profit remains indisposed at all times and cannot be applied at any time in the future. We therefore assess that the proposed amendment with the amended second paragraph of Article 6 which allows this profit to remain on the transferable profit item and can be used for the purposes referred to in the first paragraph of this Article and that the potential balance is used for the purchase of new investments is more appropriately addressed by the question of the possible consumption of Kad's profits. Once again, I would like to point out that Article 6 speaks of Kad; such as it will be after the transformation or after the exclusion of part of the company into an insurance company. The bill was the subject of the widest possible coordination before coming to the National Assembly; not only political but also professional, not only with political parties, but also with interested groups. And in these discussions, which were held prior to the submission of the Act to the National Assembly, they also continued at the time of the first hearing in the National Assembly or in parallel with the first hearing in the National Assembly, and in these discussions it was found that the proposed solution ensured the effective functioning of Kad as well as the effective provision of funds for the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. Finally, I should only touch on the issues or claims raised that by setting up a capital investment management agency and transferring management rights to this agency, some pensioners are taking part, which made it impossible for the pensioner or the institution to exercise its ownership rights. This is not the case, as we have repeatedly pointed out, with exclusive and purely management rights, ownership remains the same as it has been so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u193	Thank you. Anyone else want to talk about Article 6 and the amendment to this article? No, no, no. Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate the second chapter and articles 7 to 14 and the amendment of the Zares Group. Anybody want to talk? I can only see one hand. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. The Court of Auditors, in its audit report on the review of the operations of the Consulting and Management Company, described or stated that the liquidation process had not been successfully carried out, since the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had stopped the liquidation process and the Consulting and Management Company continued its regular business, despite the conditions for the successful completion of the liquidation procedure. Following a decision of the Government establishing the liquidation procedure, this should be completed by the adoption of a law on the transfer of the powers, rights and obligations of the Consulting and Management Society in liquidation and the remainder of its assets to the Slovenian Compensation Society d. d. The Court of Auditors also considered that the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Finance to suspend the liquidation procedure and to continue the operations of the DSU resulted in the non-economic performance of the tasks carried out under the law, since these tasks would be able to be carried out within the Court with lower costs or more economical. A decision by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the sale and use of the purchase assets from the sold share of DSU in the Slovenian steel industry, d.d., which, contrary to Article 11 of the Law on the Privatisation of the Slovenian Ironworks, d.d., allowed for the conversion of the claim to DSU, the purchase from the sale of the stake in SIC, into the ownership share of DSU in the amount of EUR 16 million,326 thousand,651. Thus, the purchase was not deliberately used to reduce the indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia, as provided for in Article 74 of the Public Finance Act, but was used to finance the extension of the activities of the DSU or its subsidiary DSU Real Estate, namely real estate transactions purchased by DSU Real Estate in order to rent them to ministries. On the basis of this finding by the Court of Auditors, on 13 March last year, we requested that this issue be addressed at an extraordinary meeting of two working bodies, once the Commission for the supervision of public finances and twice the Finance Board. To date, this has not been the case, since it has been found that, in accordance with the findings of the Court of Auditors, the Government has to draw up an appropriate document. Well, the government is this document - this government, because another government has done it, and that is not important - it is the governments of the Republic of Slovenia - on 8 June this year the government has finally done this homework. On page 34 of this document, it stated: "With the transfer of rights, powers, assets and obligations from DSU to the Society, it will also take over the management and storage of the archives of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Restructuring and Privatisation, the archives of the Slovenian Development Society, d.d., and the archives of DSU related to the privatisation and ownership of enterprises, and the archives of the Republic of Slovenia will take over the management and storage of the archives of the Slovenian Development Society, d.d., and DSU, which is not related to acquisition rights, powers, assets and obligations under the Act on Transformation. The assets that will not be transferred will remain in DSU and DSU will, after conversion, limit itself to activities related to the construction, management, rental and other activities related to these activities. As part of the preparation of comprehensive real estate management solutions prepared by the Ministry of Public Administration, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will definitively define the status of the DSU and transfer the remainder of the rights and obligations to a new entity that will manage the real assets of the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the above, we consider that, in terms of economy and economy, the merger of DSU with the Court of Justice makes sense to optimise the number of companies whose task is to manage the State's capital investments. Notwithstanding the many other activities carried out by DSU, the continuity of their implementation will be ensured by the transition of employees with specific knowledge from DSU to Sod." And, look at it, a fraction of it, there is a functional coalition on the committee, which is a little concerned with the Court of Auditors' findings, which are of little concern to the Government and which is deleted from the law of 8 articles relating to the transfer or termination of the DSU. I think that, apart from the quotations from these two documents, there is no need for any other justification for these eight articles to be returned to law and to be adopted in the concept as envisaged, since this is one of the fundamental chapters of this law. So that I will not speak again, we propose that the former articles 7 to 14, 8 be returned to the text as proposed by our government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u196	These amendments have been tabled by the Zares Group and the Committee has indeed voted to delete this chapter from the law. The Court of Auditors also considers that the Court of Auditors, in its audit, has determined the prudence and relevance of the continued existence of the DSU and that, at the same time as it did, it has ordered the Government to make a comprehensive analysis, not only for the DSU, but also for Kad and for the Court of Justice, and that, in the context of this comprehensive analysis, it has determined the purpose of such or other further form of organisation. What was written down in this law is now deleted and now you want to return, the result is that this decision is made in mind without any analysis. On the other hand, the DSU is an institution that operates well. Over the next four years, it has contributed around €100 million to the state budget from various perspectives. The court doesn't do so well, at least not in the last two years. In a good year in the National Assembly, you granted the Court €480 million in guarantees. For 480 million euros for being liquid. Thus, the first guarantee law stated that a guarantee of EUR 300 million was granted in order to ensure normal liquidity. This has never happened in the past – to accept guarantees to ensure the liquidity of business! They have always been seen as some concrete investments and concrete investments. And now what do you want to do with this amendment again? Join good company with bad company. Why don't you do the opposite if that's the case? If something has to be put together and concentrated!? In the framework of the DSU, a number of procedures under way for so-called wild privatisation are under way. This is probably the motive for blurring these things, for eliminating this discontinuity to happen, and for a number of things that have been set in motion in the past, it will be forgotten. DSU is the institution which is an investor of a building that was built for the needs of the police and through DSU would be financed by this building and through leases that the Ministry would pay. It's probably also disturbing for someone, because it was a project that allowed the state to gradually move into ownership by paying itself rents, which essentially means paying off the lease. But in this mandate, specifically your minister, you have made this model, but with an effect on your private pockets. The State shall repay the loan to the private person. The DSU, which is 100% owned by the country, has done the same project and has been halted or damaged by the fact that now this facility, which has been deliberately built for the needs of the police, with all the security elements, with all the necessary equipment, with adequate glazing, with the helioport and everything else, will be dedicated, as we hear, to the Ministry of Environment and Space. So it wasn't good for the police, and for the Ministry of Environment and Space, this facility will be good and suitable. Those reasons that have been stated, from the fact that the problem is the gas that is going to explode and that it is dangerous for life and health, obviously for the ILO they are not important and for the police they were. Apparently, there are some hidden elements in the background that say that all these things need to be blurred in some way and that makes the law simply attach to the Court. This procedure, or amendments that bring this inappropriate story back to law, also points to what has already been discussed in this law, as well as several times in this national assembly, that this government does not have a concept and some normal strategy. Without regard to the governance of the country, without regard to the management of the property of that country, no matter what activities in the areas that will be significant to our future, in particular when making decisions that would prevent wood from falling into this debt spiral in which Slovenia is wooding. One part of these inappropriate decisions is this law. How appropriate solutions in the area of governance of state immovable property and the management of state capital investments will be provided that this government has not been able to solve one minor problem in a year and a half, which is called falcon. This is a typical example of this effectiveness. And normally, all the solutions follow this model and this scenario. So everything that used to fly landed on the ground is grounded, concrete. Even those who somehow hope to fly like a sparrow have to cut their wings or cut their legs. This is a model that is established and applied both in human resources and in all other areas. And this way in this law, which we are witnessing today, when political definitions of our own coalition are overtaken on the one hand, on the other hand, one solution that is reasonable and smart on the other is voted on by the Committee, and is sought again in the National Assembly by amendments that put the matter back on track. I think that these amendments relating to the DSU cannot be supported and it would be good for the Government to come before the National Assembly as soon as possible with a comprehensive strategy to finally know what and how it thinks in individual elements. One part of it is this story.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u197	Anyone else? Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u198	Thank you for your word. What has been said is, in some ways, trying to justify this functional coalition that took place on the committee. That's what's going on. But there is no argument for this; I did not speak previously on purpose, which government, because this problem concerns two governments, the former and the present. The former government proposed and the National Assembly accepted that the DSU should be abolished and then failed to respect its own law. That's the first conclusion. This coalition continues – I will not say this government. The government wanted to be consistent, made an appropriate analysis and brought to the National Assembly an appropriate law, which should have been adopted once, as the Court of Auditors has determined. Of course, the public does not know what this DSU is doing and what has now been justified. It has seven sets of tasks: regulating, evaluating and transporting parcels and real estates, checking the ownership process, issuing certificates, managing capital shares in companies, managing legal matters in the country and abroad, managing business facilities and renting on the market, purchasing and managing business buildings, and renting facilities to public authorities, and conducting liquidation procedures in enterprises. And that with one of these – purchase and management, construction of business facilities – could be started, it had to be breached by purposelessly spent, purposeless and against the law, EUR 16 million. And that's what we're trying to brag about. I wouldn't brag about it! Here many are responsible that he has not yet sanctioned this. Of course, the current government has the idea of creating a new legal entity in which it will concentrate all state-owned property management, then it is, excuse me, without any connection that we will have a DSU and another legal person, and I do not know who else and we will give birth every day! How many of these terrible estates are in management? Dear people, four, count them! For four of us we have a special – this is supposed to be innovation, as some people say, but don't connect me to the police building because I don't care at all, except in principle. Nothing in particular. These four facilities are: business facility F2 at Masarykovo 16, District Court in Maribor, DURS, Tax Office in Postojna, and business facility C in Litostroj. These are all four objects when we're talking about some terrible innovation. We have illegally spent 16 million funds, which can only be used to reduce the indebtedness of the Republic of Slovenia under the Public Finance Act and so on. Of course, it is inconsistent for the coalition to draw or help to draw from the law proposed by the Government the basic text and thus actually multiply the legal persons who will perform imprudently with state property. That, you know, about the economy that is also in this text – yes, what else would it take for the DSU, the Management and Consulting Society, to be successful! That would be a disaster. It is already their mission so that they must be successful, we can only talk about more or less successful results. This material, too, does not mean that success could be better, according to the local authorities, whether it is of some height. She was successful; yes, it is her mission to do so! This proposal to return has practically three foundations: since it follows the Court of Auditors’ findings, it follows the government’s findings or position as expressed in this document — one month ago, one month and five days ago — and has been reducing the number of legal entities and thus the cost of managing or managing the state’s assets. The result will later show whether we are really committed to reducing costs or whether there are any functional coalitions if I use this term again or any other lobby that is behind it. You know what this is about! On the one hand, to keep this thing alive in Lithostrojski and on the other hand to keep the cost alive. But for the country, it doesn't matter how much it costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u199	Thank you. I see another hand. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u200	The talk was about illegality in the business of DSU. I think those words are too easy to say. The model used by DSU in building real estate is similar to that used by Dars in the construction of highways — and nobody talks about illegality! With regard to performance, however, we can see how Dars has been successful in business and how this company has been successful in doing business in this work, which is a small part of what this company is dealing with, and is actually a small part of this activity. It was established mainly because of this — and this is the primary part of the activity — to try to recover as much as possible the former social property because it was estranged in the illegal property process. A number of procedures are still ongoing, and lawsuits have not yet been concluded, including in other countries of the former Yugoslavia. And a few things have been put back into the budget. For those of you who are now open, I fear that this transfer will die and that is probably exactly what is in the interest of individual lobbying. However, in some cases, it is quite clear that the principle of rationality and economics is not always the only one at the heart of this society, and if the principle of rationality and economy was at stake, it was precisely in the DSU, as far as police buildings are concerned. Tell me, what's happening now is that the rental of a private house is paid to private people from the state budget, and here we have paid rent in the state budget, for the needs of the state and for the acquisition of ownership after 15 years of the state or even now. And that, of course, is not a good model for some. Why? It's probably because they're looking at something other than state interests. I think this is also one of the elements that say why these amendments happened, but it is not clear why they happened only by the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u201	Thank you. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Who wants to discuss Article 15? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. And I am putting to the debate Article 20 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. And we are moving on to the debate on Article 24 and the amendment of the Coalition's sent groups and the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Party's Group. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate and put to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the Zares Group. No one wants to discuss it, then I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendments in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 16th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. AT THE TIME OF THE DAY, THIS IS ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE MANAGEMENT OF PAYMENT SERVICES FOR BUDGETARY Users. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the bill, we give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Act on the Management of Payment Services for Budget Users, which is currently under consideration, and the sub-legislative rules to be issued on its basis, should systematically address certain issues and specificities of payment services of budgetary users arising from their budgetary status and their inclusion in the single treasury system or the single treasury account system. At the same time, the register of budgetary users and tasks and the organisation of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments as a body in the composition of the Ministry of Finance, which specializes in the performance of the professional and development tasks defined in this Act, shall be regulated. The provision of payment services to budgetary users is currently subject to the Law on Payment Services and Systems and Articles 73 and 74 of the Law on Payments. These provisions also regulate the tasks of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments and remain in force and apply also after the implementation of the Law on Payment Services and Systems, which has repealed the Law on Payments in the rest of the world. In view of the specificities associated with the operation of budgetary users, the Payment Services and Systems Act provides for the possibility that the individual provisions of that Act may be exempted from public payments in the course of operations of budgetary users and of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia or that payment services for budgetary users may be otherwise regulated by a specific law. Similarly, we note that the provisions of the Law on Payments that are still in force do not meet all the requirements and modern normative standards or that there is a risk of legal void in certain areas. The proposed law will therefore replace Articles 73 and 74 of the Law on Payments and regulate all specificities related to the provision of payment services to budgetary users, in particular the management of the register of budgetary users, the integration of the register with other registers, the obligations of budgetary users, the type of accounts or the management of accounts for them, the purpose and method of collecting personal data, sanctions for breaches of the law and the organisation and duties of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments. A proposal for a law will set out the way in which all entities concerned by this law are treated. In this way, the proposed law will functionally round up the normative whole, which systematically regulates all the areas mentioned above. I appreciate that the debate so far has shown that the text of the bill has been supplemented by the amendments adopted by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in accordance with the starting points and principles and the main solutions on which it was drawn up and on which the proposal for a law is based. Respectable. It takes into account all the above, we propose that the National Assembly, in accordance with its Rules of Procedure on the Proposal for a Law on the provision of payment services to budgetary users, approve and adopt a proposal for a second reading law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance, monetary policy as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mr Rad Likar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u204	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings to all present! The Committee considered the draft law at its 18th regular session 23. 6. 2010 He was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which made comments on the provisions of the seventeen articles of the draft law. The proposed law has been tabled by coalition parliamentary groups. Representatives and representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service attended the meetings of the Committee. In an additional presentation of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, her representative stressed that the amendments tabled by the coalition groups were largely followed by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, except in Articles 16 and 18 and the comment on the insufficiently clear arrangements for the processing of personal data in Article 30. However, it drew attention to the amendment tabled to Article 2, which amends the first indent and adds new indents of this Article, since this amendment does not contain the definition of the direct and indirect user of the budgets in the first indent compared to the basic provision of Article 2. This term, however, contains a criminal provision of article 31 of the law. Otherwise, in Article 1 of the Act, direct and indirect users of budgets are introduced as a deadline, but are not specifically defined by reference to the Public Finance Act, as proposed in the first indent of the basic text of Article 2 of the Law. The Committee did not, however, adopt its amendment to the amendment of the coalition groups to Article 2, which would take account of this comment by the Legislative and Legal Service. In the debate on individual proposed solutions and amendments tabled, it was noted that the amendment was tabled for the new Article 23rd, which relates to the obligation to verify the data on the payment order in payment of the compulsory duties and other public financial revenues. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 23rd, for the correct identification of the payer, the type of compulsory duty or the public financial income and the supervisor of the public financial income, the payment order should include, inter alia, an active sub-account of the public financial income published in the Register of Transaction Accounts. In view of the fact that the system does not make payments in the case of an inactive account and, as highlighted in the debate, it would therefore be more appropriate to provide for a solution to inform the payer, by way of reasons of refusal, when indicating an inactive account, that it would be more reasonable to check the correctness of the account or its name instead of checking the activity or inaction of the account. At the expectation of the Committee, the bill-maker should examine this issue further and, in the context of the second hearing of the National Assembly, may propose a more appropriate definition of account control as one of the essential components of the payment order necessary for the proper execution of the payment. The Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and adopted all amendments of the coalition groups. The Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. The amendments adopted are included in the text of the amended draft law, which forms part of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u206	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye to everyone again! The proposal for a bill on the provision of payment services to budgetary users is a comprehensive proposal that will systematically regulate this area. This is a specific issue with regard to business under the Law on Payment Services and Systems, which is a fundamental law. The reason for the specificity is in the very nature and specificity of the services related to the management of the operations of the budgetary users involved in the single treasury account system of the State and the municipalities. The Basic Law on Payment Systems and Services allows different arrangements on the basis of this specification. The proposed law thus further regulates the provision of payments and services to direct and indirect users of state and municipal budgets, the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia. The registers of budgetary users and the organisation and tasks of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments as a body in the composition of the Ministry of Finance shall be specified in more detail. The DeSUS Group assesses that the draft law respects the fundamental principles of payment services and payment systems, taking into account the principles to be followed by entities operating in public finances, namely: protection of public funds, security of payments, public service, transparency in the provision of payment services, direct notification of service users, transparency. In the Group of Members, we stress that today this area is extremely well regulated, that the operation of both the Office and the budgetary users, as far as this area is concerned, is ongoing and stable, and we are therefore expressing a general concern whether changes in this area are necessary. Nevertheless, we will support the bill in the expectation of a more transparent one. the operations of the budgetary consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Borut Saiovic on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Good afternoon to all of you! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law on the provision of payment services to budgetary users, since in our opinion the scope of public payments administration is systematically regulated. The Law on Payment Services and Systems, which replaced the existing Law on Payments, has recently been adopted, with the exception of the provisions referred to in Articles 73 and 74, which also regulate the tasks of the Public Payment Board. In view of the expiry of the Law on Payments and of the scope and importance of the specialised, professional, enforcement and development tasks which have led to the establishment of the Public Payments Authority, this proposal of the Act makes sense to regulate the provision of payment services to so-called budgetary users. This proposal regulates the provision of payment services to direct and indirect users of state and municipal budgets, as well as the importance of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of Slovenia. Furthermore, the way in which accounts are maintained and payment services provided to budgetary users, other tasks and specific requirements related to the recording and implementation of public financial flows is identified. It is also important to define the tasks and organisation of public payments administrations. The bill itself also aims to regulate and systemically manage accounts and provide payment services to budgetary users, further regulates the register of budgetary users and the procedure for obtaining and terminating the status of the budgetary user. We estimate that these changes are necessary, welcome and desirable, so we will support the proposal of the law in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Chapič has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u210	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a bill on payment services for budgetary users. In accordance with the current legislation, budgetary users have a different way of paying services than those of regulated companies in the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, specificities and restrictions are laid down relating to the operation of the budgetary users involved in the system of the Treasury Account of the State or municipalities. The draft law sets out in more detail and sets out how payment services are provided to budgetary users, the register of budgetary users and the organisation and tasks of the Public Payments Administration as a body in the composition of the Ministry of Finance. The proposal for a law in a specific part shall govern the purpose of establishing and the content of the register of budgetary users and the procedure for entering or deleting it. For budgetary users established on the basis of a law or other regulation which is not registered with any other registry body and for the budgets and managers of the single treasury account system, the register of budgetary users shall be the primary register. The Register of Budget Users shall be made publicly available and free of charge on the website of the Public Payments Board, which shall also be maintained. On the basis of the register of budgetary users, the following shall be provided: identification of budgetary users, budgets, fund managers, the single account system and supervisory obligations and other public financial revenues, management of accounts or accounts, provision of payment services for budgetary users, support to treasury operations at the level of the State and municipalities, connection and exchange of data with other public registers and official records, notification of payment transactions to budgetary users and other tasks. In this way, access to budgetary user data is much greater and more transparent. The draft law also further regulates access to data from the register of budgetary users. The proposed solutions shall take into account the fundamental requirements and principles of registration law, such as: the public, the uniformity of the register, the registration obligation, credibility and confidence in the register. The draft law also defines the specificity associated with the management of accounts and payment services for budgetary users. The draft law separates several types of accounts maintained by the Public Revenue Administration, namely the Treasury Account of the State or the Treasury Account of the Municipality, which is intended to manage the funds of the single treasury account system, the Account of the public financial revenue to which the taxpayers pay the compulsory taxes and other public financial revenues, the Accounts of the budgetary users intended for the payment services provided to the budgetary users, and the Other Accounts and Accounts set by the Minister responsible for the finances. In addition to those accounts, the Public Revenue Administration shall keep records of the payment transactions and the state of the financial assets of the budgetary users in specific dedicated transactions accounts opened with Banka Slovenije for the separate management of funds for the execution of a particular programme or project, as well as of the special accounts with zero positions opened with banks used exclusively for the cash operations of budgetary users. Direct and indirect budgetary users are bound in the execution of the budget and regular operations to a single treasury account system, as defined by the Public Finance Act, and the proposal of this Act therefore contains specific provisions of the obligation to close transactions accounts with banks and to prohibit payment transactions outside the single treasury account system. For all of this, the Social Democrats Group will support the proposal for a bill on the provision of payment services to budgetary users.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr Rado Likar has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u212	Thank you again very much for your word. In 2002, payment transport reform was completed, and economic legal persons' accounts were transferred to business banks. However, in accordance with the Law on Payments, the newly established Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Public Payments as a body of the Ministry of Finance has begun to provide payment services. This laid the groundwork for the establishment of a new payment system for budgetary users. The Law on Payment Services and Systems, which replaced the Law on Payments, retained paragraphs 73 and 74, which also regulate the tasks of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia in respect of public payments, allowing the individual provisions of the Law on Payment Services and Systems to be exempted from use and to otherwise regulate the provision of payment services to the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments. The proposal for a law submitted by the Government to the parliamentary procedure sets out in more detail the provision of payment services to budgetary users, the register of budgetary users and the organisation and tasks of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments. Such a legal solution already applies to the tasks of the authorities in the composition of the Ministry of Finance – such as the Tax Service Act, the Customs Service Act and the Prevention of Money Laundering and the Financing of Terrorism Act. The business of budget users, direct or direct, is specifically regulated in our country, as they are linked to the single treasury account system and therefore has certain specific features for the provision of payment services to budgetary users. The basic tasks of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for public payment as a payment service provider for budgetary users have been defined in Article 74 of the Law on Payments. These include, inter alia, the provision of payment services for the budgetary user, the management of accounts and registers for entities and the provision of information and information on taxes paid, contributions and other compulsory charges and public financial revenues. In the SDS Group, we support the solution to deal with this by special law, as well as the establishment and maintenance of a register of budgetary users in the way that other registers apply; for example, the Court Register, the Business Register of Slovenia, the Register of taxpayers and so on. However, the proposed solution in the new Article 23rd, relating to the obligation to verify the data on the payment order in payment of compulsory duties and other public financial revenues, would be more reasonable in our view to verify the correctness of the account or the consistency of that account with the title, is a content check, since the activity or inaction of the account is already checked by the computer system itself. The bill does not bring significant innovations in the operation of the single account and payment system of budgetary users, but merely regulates by law the organisation and competence of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for public payments as a payment service provider for budgetary users. We will support the draft law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u213	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the amended bill will be held in half an hour in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item, and I am also adjourning the 19th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 6.50 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u214	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue to end the 24th item on the agenda - the proposal for a decision declaring a decision adopted at the legislative referendum on the Law on the ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which was held on 6 June 2010. As the amendments to the proposal for a decision have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the council has taken a decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda - consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 25. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision, and therefore the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 26th item of the agenda - consideration of the Proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the first paragraph of Article 16a of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia (Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 19/10, officially cleared UPB-2 text). We are moving on to a decision on the proposal of the parent working body: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the first paragraph of Article 16a of the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia is adopted. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 1. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the Council of State has taken a decision. We therefore move on to deciding on the text of the authentic interpretation in the text, as presented by the group of Members with the first-signed Milan Gumzar. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 3. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the text of the authentic interpretation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia to ensure financial stability in the euro area, an urgent procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 13. Seven. 2010 We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u215	Thank you very much, President. So in the SDS Group we will support this amendment because we believe it is extremely important not only for the stabilisation of the financial system in the euro area, but also for the stability of public finances in the Republic of Slovenia, which must be of particular concern to us. We believe that any financial mechanism to stabilise the euro area should be voted on separately, in the form of a guarantee law. It is also possible to understand the interpretation of the Constitution of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In fact, the guarantee is only an act that follows a basic purpose, i.e. a loan, some provision of financial resources, and the framework, the conditions of this first transaction of providing financial resources must be known, clear, if we are to give a guarantee for this at a second stage. This is not the case now, in fact, we are adopting a single framework under this law, where we allocate over 2 billion guarantee quotas for the purposes of financial stability, but we do not know for what specific purpose; whether this is assistance to Spain, Ireland, Portugal or any other euro area country. And that's the problem. The problem is that we do not know what the company or those guarantees are intended for, what this company will pay for as a result of the guarantee. Parliament will be only aware of this in the future, the government will decide on this, and this is, according to our assessment, contrary to the Constitution. Contrary to certain other provisions of the law, in particular the law on the implementation of the budget and the law on public finances, we believe that this amendment and the adoption of this amendment would make this solidarity, which provides for some stabilisation, financial stabilisation, within the framework of the Eurogroup, much more transparent. We believe that Parliament would retain some of its fundamental competence in providing guarantees, because the Constitution says that guarantees can only be granted by law and that laws are adopted by the National Assembly and we cannot possibly accept an interpretation by the Government that the guarantee framework law itself satisfies this constitutional standard. Therefore, we propose that you follow the opposition's views, after all, it costs nothing, perhaps a day or two, which is a small thing in the stabilisation of the Eurogroup, and is crucial for the stabilisation and transparency of public finances in the Republic of Slovenia. We propose that in any financial mechanism, for a particular reason, it be decided here, in this room, in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u216	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. As the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u217	Thank you. I'll be relatively brief. Therefore, because you have not adopted an amendment that would at least minimally ensure the constitutionality and legality of this law, including the legal regime governing the area of public finances, we will oppose this law in the parliamentary group, even though we welcome the basis of intent, but the implementation to this extent is carried out not only because of content but also because of some sting or for some unreasonable reason, if some opposition proposes, it must be rejected. Well, we won't support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Our Group of Members will not support this law. We expected that at least an amendment would be adopted, which to some extent improves this fiasco and this nonsense. In fact, thinking about this in today's Slovenia, in our National Assembly, is pointless, because the coalition works as it pleases it, whether it is good for the country or good for it alone. One would expect us to vote by 2/3 of the majority in such important matters, and that was not the case either. In short, we probably won't even vote in the opposition again, because you'll just send us out and you'll decide for yourself. It is likely that the government will adopt a law that will be passed by the majority of the coalition, which the opposition has nothing to say about, and that the government itself will determine what it wants, what it feels and how it feels. I think this is one bad day in the history of Slovenia, which will still hit us hard on the head. When the credits we have to pay for cheating, stealing, and not knowing what else are going to happen, people will start asking questions. I hope it's not too late.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u221	Thank you so much for saying that. We will not support the Slovenian People's Party's Group of this Act in particular because we believe that two billion guarantees pose an excessive risk to public finances. So the commitments that could arise from the acceptance of these guarantees can seriously threaten Slovenian public finances in the future due to this threat, which definitely exists, and the nagging, unreasonable hiccups that we are making in this area, but we want this matter to stop and we want to wait to see how things are going to happen in the European Union, especially with other individual problems that are problematic; that is to say, countries that are in trouble, which are much to be discussed, and that they will then decide on such or other support for these countries. Let us recall that in this National Assembly we have already accepted a guarantee of EUR 400 million for Greece, that today we are re-accepting 2 billion, in short the guarantees in this National Assembly just after the current tape, so, with ease, non-chalant. We're against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u222	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, for 44, against 28. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 6th item of the agenda - the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession and the High Representative of the Republic of Slovenia for Succession in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 5. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda - second reading of the draft law on the conversion of the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance on the transfer of rights and powers D. S.U. to the Slovenian Indemnity Society and the Investment Policy of the Capital Company of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Slovenian Indemnity Company under the ordinary procedure We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 1. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 23. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 2. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 26. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 6. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 42 votes against 28. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to the second chapter and to Articles 7 to 14. I remind you that this amendment is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 25. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 25 becomes irrelevant. The amendment is also substantively linked to the amendment of the coalition's sent groups to Article 24 and the SLS Group to Article 24. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment to Article 24 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 65. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 65.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The amendment to Article 25 is therefore irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 15. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 28. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, DeSUS and LDS to Article 20. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 27. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are therefore deciding on the amendments of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS parliamentary groups and of the SLS Group to Article 24. I warn you, the amendments are actually the same. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 63 votes against 3. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As we have said, the amendment to Article 25 is irrelevant and we have therefore concluded our decision on the amendments. This also concludes the second reading of the bill. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill at its next meeting. On the basis of Article 137, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the National Assembly that it adopt the following decision: a proposal for a third-reading law shall be prepared by the Government. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 4. [[The vote was 75.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the bill on the management of payment services for budgetary users under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Collections in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled for the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Enforcement of Rights from Public Funds under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 12. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 22. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 23. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 64. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 25. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a bill-maker if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u223	Thank you for your word. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we ask that the National Assembly vote on the possibility of a third examination of the law taking place at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u224	As you have heard, the proposer proposes that the assembly, under Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, hold a third consideration of the draft law at this meeting. In the second reading, amendments were adopted to less than a dozen articles and we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 21. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. A third consideration of the bill will be carried out by the National Assembly on Thursday, 15. Seven. 2010, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments adopted and the articles to which the amendment has been adopted. The amendments to these two articles may be tabled by qualified applicants at the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda - this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Social Security Benefits under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. I decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 12. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 42. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendment was not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. Please, I'm sorry. I didn't notice. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, Jakob Preseknik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr President, for understanding that I want to clarify that the Slovenian People's Party's Group cannot support this law, especially for one simple reason which I have tried several times, both on the committee and at the plenary session itself, to explain. It is the abolition of the so-called state pension, which we consider to have been a major step forward in social security, especially those of the most vulnerable, older people who, under other laws, could otherwise not have reached a decent and permanent pension. It is a matter of protecting against a good decade of acquired rights; on the other hand, it is also a matter of degrading and degrading recipients who will have to continue to demonstrate, as a result of this amended way, that they are entitled to other social benefits. This is the main reason that we cannot support this law and do the same in the previous law, which we will make definitive decisions, as you said, on Thursday at the meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u226	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 5. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the interrupted 1st item of the agenda - this is on questions from Members and Members. In line with the proposal by Mr Tanka, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to Jože Tank's parliamentary question on the government's cooperation with the opposition. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u227	Thank you so much for saying that. The President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also called on the opposition to participate in the preparation of these key laws, which are necessary to regulate the situation in the country, as things are getting worse and worse, and trends are becoming extremely negative and the situation is deteriorating. This promise has been repeated several times in this term by the National Assembly. However, when I asked him whether his offer was sincere and serious, since it had already repeated itself, whether he had prepared coalition-coordinated solutions for it and that offer was operationally worked out, the answer was avoided. However, he said that his attitude towards this cooperation with the opposition, with the Slovenian Democratic Party, was also largely linked to the final account vote for 2008 and 2007, when the coalition had to re-vote and adopt the final account as it had been submitted. From this answer, it was his deep resentment that this must have happened to his coalition. This was also the reason why it was rejected and there was no response to the Slovenian Democratic Party's offer of 2 plus 10. We expect that the President of the Government will also be able to apply his words in practice, either to accept or to accept the offer that we have submitted to prepare his proposals, to supplement this cooperation offer, or that the Government will coalitionly harmonise its proposal for cooperation. However, it is obvious that there are enormously many different opinions in this coalition, that each coalition party has its own position and that the President of the Government cannot even do any more of this verbal step. And this is how we face it again and again, dealing with his calls for cooperation, but there is no step to make this cooperation actually happen. I propose that we support this proposal for a debate on the Government's response to the fact that we will actually find out what is happening with these offers; whether they are his personal wishes, whether these proposals and those initiatives are coalitionly coordinated, or whether they are worth more, or whether it's just a pianist story. I propose that you support the proposal and then actually see if anything is going to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u228	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 72 present, 28 votes against 43. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Radovan Žerjava will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of mags. Joyful Žereva in connection with the sale of state property. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u229	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. We will certainly support this proposal. I asked myself, in accordance with the possibility of the President of the Government, about the future of the New Ljubljana Bank, in particular the future, as regards ownership. Indeed, in recent times there have been rumors, mainly in the media, about such and other recapitalisations by strategic partners from abroad. I believe that the crisis that it is and the problems in public finances must certainly not be an alibi, that under this pressure they would make any mistake and that the most important Slovenian bank would land in foreign hands. I think that we need to talk about such an important issue, to talk here too, in the National Assembly, and to judge what is the wisest and smartest thing about this bank. I pointed out that it is also necessary to consider bringing the New Ljubljana Bank together with the Triglav Insurance Office. In fact, this would set up a strong financial institution. Insurer Triglav also needs an appropriate, strong partner in the banking sector; that is, bank windows are an important sales route, and it is also important here from the perspective of the possible penetration of such strong financial institutions into foreign markets. This would give us the right potential, a society that would be effective, competitive not only in our market, but also in foreign markets, and thus would certainly preserve state property, even upgrade it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Is there any other group that would like to explain the voice? No, MPs. Explanation of the vote on behalf of Andrej Magajna and then mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Andrej Magajna, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u231	Good-bye! I support the proposal for a debate in the National Assembly on the fate of the New Ljubljana Bank. We can wait for the Government to decide for us and provide us with a solution, but we can talk sooner and open all the discussions. Regardless of my approach, I do not think that there will be too much debate and there will be too much discussion in advance. This is not a normal polarisation between the position and the opposition; opinions will be divided according to other criteria. Unanimity in government, parliament, between economists, the professional public and the public at all. The final decision will serve as a model for the ownership of other entities where the State has its shares. The decision can also be fatal, perhaps as fatal as the ownership of Lek. According to their status, Lek is very different, but certain matters are the same, certain problems are the same. Let's not be afraid of the debate, let's open it up, because Parliament has an extremely important responsibility that can also be fatal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u232	Havela beautiful. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, mag. Franz Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will also support this proposal for a debate because there is never too much debate on such an important point or issue as the sale of state property. I must also say that the bank or banks, insurance companies, PTT companies and so on, which bring profits, are actually the last thing they would sell, even if the Bank of Ljubljana is currently in trouble because of poor business and lending, we know what they have brought to the brink of liquidity or in difficulty of having to recapitalise it. I think it is even better if we had to solve the bank's problems once again, even though they were caused by the management with reckless actions; this would be better than a sale that would otherwise bring some benefits in the short term, but they would quickly spend the purchases or the money from the sale, and they would no longer be able to accumulate profits from this property in the long run. That is why I think it is right that this is being discussed and that this issue should be addressed comprehensively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u234	Thank you very much. We're voting. 71 Members and Members are present. 35 votes against 34. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 34.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In accordance with the proposal of the President of the Government of Borut Pahor, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister, Mr Pahor, to the question of the Parliamentary question of the victory of Jelinčič Trinité concerning the construction of the Aeronautic Museum of ZU [[Western European Union]] in the Murski Sobota and decriminalisation of this project. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When I asked the question of the Member of Parliament, I put the matter to a greater extent. To talk about the problem of the pomur region, which has been neglected, although it has received some kind of law on the resolution of the pomur region. Those few million euros have practically disappeared to an unknown place. Some have shared good jobs, some have received money to hire a certain number of workers, but nothing seems to have happened. I think the pomur region was somehow very badly pushed aside because of this. Well, given that it is. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u236	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Mr. Jelinčič, continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u237	However, given that the construction of the Aeronautics Museum is the only possible solution for that region, I think it would also make sense to discuss this. [[...]] Issues would also be clarified in the area of criminalisation of this crime, the attempt to build this museum, as Mrs Katarina Kresal did. Or it would appear that this will have to be discussed some other time, perhaps in other forums, in the Council of Europe or something like that. However, with regard to the rescue of the Pomur region, I think it would be worthwhile to use at least a few words, but not to take those people to a place and forget about them.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u238	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 39. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal by Mr Grill, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Dorian Marušić to the question of Mr Grill's question on the reduction of investment funds. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u239	Thank you very much. It is known that last week, or that you have adopted in the coalition a state budget rebalancing, where investment funds are drastically declining and investment in hospital infrastructure is in sharp decline. For a total of 39 million or even more millions of euros, the funds are falling, so that there will be significantly fewer funds for the construction of an emergency centre in Ljubljana, for many hospitals across Slovenia, as well as emergency centres. This is certainly a serious damage to the Slovenian health system. In its explanatory memorandum, the Government has somehow tried to justify that these funds are essentially redistributing into 2011 and that these ongoing investments will not be slowing down much in this way, as this is expected to be accelerated in 2011. This, of course, is not true, because the calculations of how much money would be needed for 2011, show that these are unrealistic expectations, as these will be a few ten million euros; the rapid calculation shows more than 50 million euros. In view of the macroeconomic situation as predicted by the well-known economists, we will have even less money in the next year. This means that the upgrading of the emergency centre in Ljubljana will fail; the emergency centres in Slovenia, the general hospital in Nové mesto, Trbovje and several such hospitals will be reduced in this way. In view of the fact that Minister Marusic has indicated that he is currently negotiating with the Ministry of Finance, that in preparing the 2011 budget, some of these funds are indeed trying to be provided and that negotiations are also under way with the European Union in order to obtain some European funds for this purpose, such a debate in September could help to shed light on all the difficulties encountered in providing these funds, and it would be significantly easier for him to negotiate. I therefore assess and also the Group of Members estimates that such a debate would be particularly in favour of our healthcare system and that the Minister himself would then have a significantly easier job when negotiating for this urgently needed resource. I therefore hope that this proposal for this general debate will receive sufficient support, of course, even in the coalition. In the parliamentary group, as I mentioned, we will, of course, also support this proposal to carry out this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u240	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 27 votes against 41. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with France Tsukati's proposal, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Health Dorian Marusic to France Tsukjat's question on the senior doctor's work. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors, France Tsukjat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u241	Thank you for your word. I have opened up a problem in the parliamentary question that has arisen because of the lack of social dialogue, doctors or a large crowd of doctors have cancelled their consent to overtime and these consents are deposited in Fides and Fides will deliver this to the Ministry of Health in the coming days, which means they will not be on duty as of 1 September. Rather, it is an overtime period that exceeds the time that the employer has at his disposal to order the doctor to work overtime. This limit is 170 hours a year. That means about 14 hours a month.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u242	May I have your attention in the hall, please? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u243	So, 14 hours a month a employer can charge a doctor without his consent for overtime. The minister always responded to the problem of on-calls in hospitals. There we admit, there may be good measures and there it is possible to rationalise the duty and the organisation is more flexible. In healthcare homes, however, we have 15 health homes in Slovenia, where less than 10 doctors are both employed and concessionaires combined. If we are counting on the health care service to provide a home, that is to say, to the extent of one doctor, one sister in the nighttime and during the holidays and Sundays, that means 5 times 10 nights a week, plus 2 times 24, that is 98 hours a week or 420 hours a month. If a healthcare home would want to cover this up with employed doctors, it should employ at least 4 doctors. So let's say 8 doctors, less than 10 in these health care homes, have to cover this time with half the doctor's work and do an average of 80 to 90 overtime per month. Without this agreement, duty will be impossible to organize in these health homes. It's about, say, Ribnica, Idrija, Logatec, Cerknica, Hrastnik, Zagorje and so on. I asked him how he was going to be in the autumn of September 1st, and I didn't get any answers. However, the minister replied that even during vacations, he would prepare himself for this situation and that would require a discussion, a conversation in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u244	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. 72 Members and Members present, 30 to 38. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal of Mr Jožet Jerovška, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Culture Majda Širc to the question of the delegation by Mr Jerovška regarding the acquisition of media houses. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 29 to 44. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Ambassador, Mag. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of Culture Minister Majda Shirca to the question of mags. Juliane Bizjak Mlakar in connection with the proposed new status regulation of Radiotelevision of Slovenia. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? In your own name? In my own name. Just a minute. Does one of the parliamentary groups want to explain the voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] Explanation in its own name. Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Why should we talk about transforming Radiotelevision of Slovenia into a profitable organization? This new organisation, which could have almost 50% of commercial activity, would have transferred state assets to this new organisation, following a proposal from the law. Profits from commercial activities would not necessarily be spent solely on the conduct of public service activities, as is customary for public non-profit services in the developed world, but profit could be shared by members of the Administration, the Supervisory Board and the Council of the RTV after covering a possible negative from public interest activities. But I could share with others who are involved in the organization of this, according to a new, profitable organisation. This was not the purpose of establishing a public institution for which we citizens are willing to make a mandatory contribution to RTV. To pay for it, we have decided to have a public institution, which will be a non-profit institution, through public funds and a surplus of all activities, a national interest, not a new group chosen from politics and other organisations, on public funds and on public infrastructure, creating profitable ones for ourselves. As this is also the case with other public institutions, I believe that this should be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Explanation of the voice in his own name, Victory of the Elinčič Noble. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u247	Thank you very much. I'll support this proposal. I think my two colleagues are here, too. It's a matter that needs to be clarified in here. The law, prepared by Mrs Shirca, is a common sausage, without tail and head, and in fact does not fix the situation on RTV, but worse. He certainly fixes things for some, for the most part, and for the viewers and viewers in particular, he makes things worse. That is why I look forward to the debate and once again say: I support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u248	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, for 32, for 39. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Krivac, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Igor Luksic to the question of Mr Krivc's mission regarding the school calendar rules. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Daniel Krivec, Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u249	Thank you for your word. Unfortunately, in the Minister's reply, I did not get any valid arguments as to why school vacations from two weeks have been merged into one week's. The Minister acknowledged that no analysis had been carried out or that this would have any impact on the economy, on the transport and safety sectors, and not least on the environment, but also on the reasons he stated, it was practically unclear what the justification was for changing this Regulation in this way. It was clear that it had not been coordinated with neither the Ministry of Transport nor the Ministry of the Economy, nor with the Ministry of the Interior. Thus, this decision is in some way contrary to what the Government and these ministries are advocating in the field of safety on the ski slopes and in the field of road safety. In the meantime, the Ministry of Economy has also sent its position, which I will also read and the ministry in its position says that the unification of vacations in one week for all of Slovenia is not in favour of Slovenian tourism, and says that the negative consequences of these decisions on uniting winter school holidays will be reflected in a large direct loss of income, including a long-term loss due to the changed practice of allowing and redirecting domestic guests to holiday goals abroad. I think that those Members who were present in the Chamber were able to convince themselves that the Minister had virtually no serious justification for why a practice that has been established in Europe, which has been well received in Slovenia, is changing in such a way, without aligning with the ministries, which are also in some way tantamount to such a change, and that in some ways it is improving safety on skis, safety on roads, reducing the capacity of our skis, in some way also causing problems to those schoolchildren who are from less wealthy families who cannot afford to afford abroad. I believe that you too will listen and confirm that the debate on why this regulation has changed so quickly would be beneficial for all our citizens. That is why I am asking for support and for this to be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-07-13-SDZ5-Redna-19.ana.u250	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 36. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Zvonk Černač, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, to the question of Mr Zvonk Černač, on the financing and construction of the motorway cross. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 44. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the proposal of the Mining Act, within the framework of the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Friday, 9. Seven. 2010 carried out a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, decided, on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 180 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 71 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 1. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 19th meeting of the National Assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9 a.m.
