ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u1	I'm starting a meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members cannot attend today's meeting: Milenko Ziherl, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, only Bevk from 19:00 onwards and Jožef Jerovšek. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY - A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE PARTICIPATION OF WORKERS IN THE REQUIRED PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. He has the word, Dr. Matthew Lahovnik, Minister of Economy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! It is a proposal for a law on participation in profits that introduces certain changes. As already existing law regulated the participation of workers in profits and participation in company ownership, the contract on the participation of workers in profits, as well as the procedure for concluding the contract and tax relief. Let me say that, at the Ministry of the Economy, we have prepared an analysis of why, in fact, so few companies decide to share profits with employees even when this profit is created. Also with the professional public, a discussion was held and it was pointed out that there are some too many complex solutions in the existing law and too few tax incentives or incentives for companies to make more decisions to share profits among employees as well. At the Ministry of Economy and Government, we are aware that the participation of employees in profits is a very important lever for greater motivation for employees and identification of employees with society. In modern approaches to corporate governance, the participation of employees in profits is also used in order to increase the involvement of all stakeholders in corporate governance. The very logic is based on the principle that if knowledge is a key factor in creating a competitive advantage, and this knowledge is largely embodied by employees in society, then they are also justified to share or participate in profits when it is created. Therefore, we have prepared certain simplifications: in particular tax reliefs and simplified the contract procedure itself, the registration of a contract that is necessary for an economic company to be able to benefit from these tax reliefs. Let me say that, at present, in Slovenia, 24 companies have decided to take part in the profits, so these changes, which should have a positive impact on the increased participation of employees' profits, are necessary. The aim of the law, as I said, is to simplify the procedures, abolish the suspension of the payment for employees and improve the tax treatment of paid profits for workers and the resulting incentive for the maximum possible application of the law and the sharing of profits among workers. After this resolution of the law we are preparing, the tax treatment is at least as favourable as the payment of profits to capital owners. So far, if you have decided to pay the profits to the employees, this has been more taxly burdened and by contributions if the profits were paid to the workers than to the capital owners. That's what's going on now. In addition, I should say that, among the main solutions, it is considered that companies can share profits among employees, as it is significantly more favourable, allow for the distribution of profits at group level, eliminate one or three-year deferral of payments as a condition for the acquisition of tax benefits, simplify the process of conclusion of the contract, the compulsory registration of the contract is replaced only by a notification to the tax administration and, as I said, a more favourable tax treatment is given to the company the amount of profits it pays to workers, is considered to be a taxly recognised expenditure if the contract is concluded at group level, and, of course, the parent company is considered to be a tax recognised expenditure. Social security contributions are not paid for the corresponding amount of profits, and we have burdened the employees, but it must be said that when we talk about paid part of the profits to the employees, of course, income from the employment relationship is considered to be not fully considered as a tax base, but only 50% of this income. In the case of a share scheme, the tax liability shall be determined in accordance with the rules applicable to profit from [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] Thank you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Matjaž Han. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Honourable President, Honourable Minister with a team, colleagues and colleagues! On 13 May 2010, the Committee on the Economy considered the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in profits as a work force. The Committee was attended by representatives and representatives of the proposed law, namely the Ministry, then the Legal and Legislative Service, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, the Association of Employers of Slovenia and the Association of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service on the basis of which the coalition groups tabled amendments, taking into account the bulk of those comments. The amendments were also tabled by the SD, DeSUS and SNS groups and by the unaffiliated Member to Articles 3, 4 and 8 and by the Slovenian People's Party Group to Articles 3, 6 and 25. The Committee was also given the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism, which unanimously supported the proposal of the law, and the position on the amendments tabled to Article 3 and the amendment proposal of the Association of Councils of Workers of Slovenia. The meeting was held by the Minister for the Economy in his opening remarks on the reasons for the adoption of the bill, its basic objectives and the main solution, stressing that, in accordance with the basic principle of the draft law, the principle of voluntary participation in profits for workers and society is maintained. However, the representative of the ZPS explained that the comments made in the written opinion in the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups were duly taken into account and the comments made by the Minister of Economy were duly clarified. As part of the discussion on individual articles, members of the Committee discussed, of course, Articles 1 and 3 of the draft law. In the debate on Article 1, the proposed legislative text was largely supported in principle by the debate on Article 1. They considered the bill to be a step in the right direction, so that it would enable the law in practice to actually come to life. It brings such changes, which may really encourage the company to share profits with employees, showing support for the removal of unnecessary bureaucratic barriers, the abolition of pay-backs and, in particular, more favourable tax incentives. However, some other aspects were also highlighted, namely that no serious analysis had been carried out prior to the drafting of the proposal for a law on the implementation of the applicable law, and therefore there are not sufficient grounds for assessing in the introduction of the bill that the current profit-sharing scheme is not sufficiently encouraging. It was suggested that the applicant should provide all relevant information to Members prior to the consideration of the draft law at the meeting of the National Assembly in order to present the actual situation to them in this way, as this also allows for easier decision-making. The most extensive and, of course, controversial debate took place on the provisions of Article 3 and on this article of the amendments tabled. Article 3 sets out the principle of voluntary participation in profits and, in certain cases, the amendment seeks to include the obligation to participate in the division of profits. With regard to these solutions, the debaters were not united. Most of the discussers supported the introduction of compulsory participation, stressing that only in this way will workers actually participate in the profits they also generated. The current law has been in force since the beginning of 2008 and the data show that it has not recovered, which means that the principle of volunteering does not work. Others cautioned that the amendments tabled provide a conceptually different solution, which was not the subject of social dialogue, so it is not possible and is not the most carefully thought out. It was also pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service that it would be advisable to scrutinise thoroughly how the content of these amendments is placed in the remaining text of the bill, which is based on the principle of volunteering. Notwithstanding the concerns expressed, the Committee adopted the amendment of the parliamentary groups of Social Democrats, DeSUS and SNS and of the unrelated Members, Mr Žnidaršić and Mr Rezman. However, the amendment of the People's Party's Group was not decided because it had been withdrawn from their side. Thus, the Committee decided that part of the profit must be made compulsory to workers if the company assembly decides to split more than 25% of the profit on the balance sheet. However, the part of the balance sheet profit that is distributed to workers in this case must not be less than 25% of the total balance sheet profit intended for distribution. After the discussion, the Committee also decided on all other amendments and its decisions are reflected in the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with co-worker and co-worker! We are talking about an important topic in terms of the development, perspective and satisfaction of workers in Slovenia. The position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has always been that companies have to use profit-sharing instruments to the greatest extent possible, and for which there are certainly no sufficiently favourable conditions or mechanisms to encourage this in the past. This is evidenced by the simple fact that only 24 companies were involved in the profit-sharing schemes under existing legislation and that companies with the largest number of employees were not included in the profit-sharing schemes. Thus, only 0.29% of all employees participated in the profit sharing, and only 0.18 per cent of total profits were distributed. We wonder what are the reasons why companies do not participate in this scheme. When we ask companies, they justify this fact by looking for reasons mainly in the tax instimulation of profit sharing, which simply means that companies are not to be included in these schemes. The same weakness in existing legislation is also on the part of the recipients of this profit, workers, because such profit-sharing income is certainly overtaxed. In addition, the current legislation provides that the tax advantages are granted to workers only if they agree to postpone payment of profits. Finally, it has been found that the profit-sharing process is too complex and administratively very burdensome, as we are still witnessing in many other acts of law and law. The proposed law in its original form has made a number of improvements that would allow for the sharing of profits for employees in a significantly larger number than it has so far. The main changes that we view in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia as extremely positive relate to paying workers the corresponding amount of profits immediately, thus eliminating that one- or up to three-year delay. Another important change is that there will be a benefit for employees by not including the amount of profits in the tax base for the purpose of income of 50%. The profits paid to companies will be considered in full as tax-recognised expenditure. It is also very important that the payment of profits to workers will be fully exempt from social security contributions. In addition, companies will also be able to share the balance sheet profit among employees on the basis of a contract on the participation of workers in profits. The proposals are useful for both employees and employers. And that is what this is about, and this must be our goal to have satisfied, well-stimulated workers who participate in profit, as well as to make profit-sharing stimulating for employers. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we firmly believe that the law proposed by Minister Lahovnik was appropriate and good, as it would in its original form further stimulate the economy to share profits with employees, as envisaged by this amended law. The amended bill is moving away from this optimism as it opens up a dangerous area of so-called creative accounting, salary stagnation and interference with the already acquired rights of employees. Responsibility for any such consequences and non-payment of profits shall be taken over by the proposers. Both the professional public and the international experience show, convince and confirm that the best examples of profit sharing are those carried out on a voluntary basis. You [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] in practice they work. [[...]] There is only one country in the world and Europe that is moving away from the principle of volunteering. This is France, and we are certainly not comparable to France in these cases. The division of profits in Slovenia has become too popular a political theme, rather than an expert and reasoned debate that would bring the most benefits to workers. Compulsory division may be [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] She hears well and is popularly liked, but she is not useful for employees and workers. [[...]] As has already been said, in the LDS, we advocate that profit sharing be as much as possible, and in particular we do not forget that it must be created first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u8	President, Mr. Secretary with the team! We will discuss the views further. Now for the opinion or position of the Group of Social Democrats. Since 1997, when the then government had prepared a proposal for a law on the participation of employees in the company's profits, we have also tried to place this idea among employees in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. We have supplemented this law with working stock, but we have been rejected twice in this assembly in the legislative process. At that time, I announced, on behalf of the applicants, that we would put the law with our content into the procedure or that we would strive to obtain the appropriate support of this arrangement in the National Assembly. The law adopted in the previous term was a step in the right direction, but not enough, as the results show. The valuation of profits distributed to employees shall be measured in percentages. So the changes are necessary. The government has passed the law that we are considering today. It improves the current state of affairs. The process is simplified and the incentives for sharing are more sensitive. Therefore, even without the adoption of the most important amendment in the vote, the law would be supported because it is a good law. The signatories to the amendment adopted at the Committee on the Economy's meeting have supplemented the proposed text of the government law in a way that prescribes a mandatory division of a quarter of the balance sheet profit to be shared among employees, even if they decide to split more than 25% of the profits. So up to 25%, we keep volunteering and over 25% keep commitment. This can also be called a kind of compromise between different views of this arrangement. In doing so, I should point out once again that if society does not decide to divide more than 25%, volunteering remains. However, we reject the arguments made by opponents of compulsory profit sharing among employees as well. The anti-constitutional nature of property intervention was mentioned. Interesting argument. After 1990, we reintroduced capitalism in Slovenia, and in various ways it acquired owners. In order to protect this property, we would now refer to the Constitution, overlooking one of the functions that property also has under the Constitution. It's a social function. The second argument is that only France has similar arrangements in Europe, so this cannot be the reason for us to adopt this system in Slovenia. The argument against the data could justify the finding that France has problems with its regulation. For example, investors have to retreat and therefore have problems with the competitiveness of the economy. It's not like that. Also, the argument against which it says that under the same conditions, under the principle of volunteering, profit would also be shared among employees, and in the case of obligations under the same conditions, no, it is attractive and unrestrained for hair. The statement of representatives of the Chamber of Commerce announces the difficulties that there are investors abroad who decide to enter the Slovenian market and wait for today's decision of the National Assembly. At least that's doubtful. The claim that there is additional taxation, we challenge and repeat: if investors decide to make a profit for development and be distributed between them less than 25%, they do not have the obligation to share profits among workers. However, if they want to distribute it more, it is only right that they also have to divide it into workers. Investors who want to make a quick profit with cheap labour and take it out of Slovenia do not want to. So far, the experience of sharing profits among workers leads us to the regulation we are proposing. Such resistance to those who are supposed to share profits among employees in the event of volunteering, but in the case of obligations, is, of course, extremely eloquent. According to our assessment, profits will also be shared among employees if the division is mandatory, otherwise not. There's something about that. Capital owners over 25% won't be able to split their profits just between themselves if they don't give part of it to the workers. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will also support the proposed law with the amendments necessary for the operationalisation of the labour force. In the debate, we will also define ourselves to all the other amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u10	Honourable President, Honourable Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we welcome any change in the direction of greater attractiveness of this law for both sides, i.e. for workers and employers, following the division of profits. Although we do not believe that an appropriate analysis has been made to show the weakness of the now existing law, which was adopted in 2008, and has only begun to take place seriously in last year's year. We believe that the key reason why profits were no longer shared among employees is that in 2008 there was a deepening crisis that led to great caution in the division of profits in 2009. Less profits have also been distributed among shareholders. I believe that this caution and this crisis was also the reason why slightly less profits were shared. And it is right to make certain changes to this law in the direction of greater attraction. One more thing, if the country would like to share profits among a wide range of employees, why the Government has not adopted a similar approach to state-owned companies - Telekom, Petrola, Krka, a whole bunch of other companies, banks, insurance companies that have shared profits. If they have adopted guidelines on the salaries of managers, on supervisory boards of management, why no guidance has been adopted, that there is a greater share of profits in the assemblies for employees in Telekom, in Petrol, in Slovenian railways, in Luka, in Ljubljanska banka, in Novi Kreditni banka Maribor and so on. There's also a kind of paradox to this. It is not true that the scheme so far has not been tax advantageous. The current scheme has been tax-friendly and has also had one interesting - three-year delay in payment. In this case, the three-year delay in payment was, in fact, no taxation - not for employers, not for workers, and in fact there was no tax on both sides. And a hundred percent of everything that the employer would want to share in the profits turned out to be in the worker's pocket. It is true that the majority of employees’ interests go to profit immediately, so the scheme has recognised only 70% of the tax relief not 100%. It is likely that this proposed solution in this law is now a little more attractive in tax terms if profit is shared immediately. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, however, we are relatively reserved to the solution that part of the profits must be shared. Why? There are some very important reasons why. Every compulsion to employers, to capital owners, reduces the competitiveness of the national economy. The Slovenian economy has already decreased slightly in terms of competitiveness in terms of our competitors. The Slovenian economy is competing with neighbouring economies and we need to be competitive if we want domestic investors to stay at home and if we want to attract a foreign investor. If we have some uniqueness here, such as this solution proposed by the Social Democrats, then it means that part of the investors, including the locals, will go a little over the border. And also foreigners are likely, and the foreign capital that we want in particular in the greenfield area, we will not attract such measures, but we will expel them first. This is one of the key weaknesses of the proposed solution. This measure is a measure that deepens the economic crisis. In Slovenia we face that there are no investments, no new programmes, no projects. Will this measure bring them? No, he won't bring them. Maybe he'll drive the one who came. Once again, this investor will look a little bit around and probably choose a more competitive economic environment. And what's very important is that he's unjust. Look, banks, insurance companies are probably about to drop out or reach even nicer green numbers, so they can share profits across the street. A manufacturing company, such as the Slovenian ironworks or any other, which will probably have a few more problems, will not be able to. Look, a bank worker, he's gonna get a profit in the insurance company, but a producer doesn't. This is a popular populist action of the Social Democrats when they propose to share profits when there is no profit.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Lojze Posedel. Please. May I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we really support the participation of workers in the distribution of profits. We believe that workers are a very important component of business, of creation and it is also right that they are involved in the sharing of profits, that a satisfied worker is the most important for the company to work well and that it is wrong to be involved only in the bad, is true when problems are, and they are, in the crises we are experiencing, so much more, but it is right that it is also involved in profit. That is why we have also looked forward to this law, which has been drafted by the Ministry of the Economy and which the current law on the sharing of profits or the participation of workers in profits is correcting in the part where it has proved necessary in the work itself. We also expected that this simplification of the procedure, which has been assessed by employers as very disturbing, would greatly help to increase this participation of workers and, above all, that the abolition of the suspension of payments would mean that workers would be involved in the distribution of profits immediately. Indeed, in the Group of Members, at this time of discussion on this bill, we estimate that there is too much talk and talk about profit sharing and that there is too little emphasis on figures indicating a significant reduction in profit, including profit tax, and that time is probably a little late for this debate on this law. We've been expecting a lot from this marriage. However, in Article 3 or the amendment to Article 3 proposed by the Committee on the Economy itself, we do have different opinions in the Group of Members, assessing differently whether compulsory participation is good in one part or whether all the benefits, all the advantages of the new law, would also encourage increased participation of workers in a voluntary manner. That's why we have different opinions here. However, it is certainly our common view that workers are involved in the sharing of profits. Therefore, we also expect the Government to draw up other necessary laws so that by increasing the role of workers in the sharing of profits, we can continue to receive the labour share law and so on and so on. We are truly united in the Group of Members as to the need for the participation of workers in profits, but we have different opinions on Article 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, we did not have a system law to regulate the participation of workers in profits until 2008. By adopting the law, the participation of workers in profits was possible, but it was not taxed or otherwise encouraged and up to 20. 4. In 2010, only 24 companies were entered into the register of contracts managed by the Ministry of the Economy. For this reason, in the SLS Group, we support the proposal for a new law that will try to ensure greater response. The proposal simplifies profit-sharing procedures and, above all, the sharing of profits among workers encourages a new tax treatment of the profits paid to workers and the regulation of tax reliefs. We also supported the proposal in the parliamentary group that profits should exceptionally be distributed among workers. There is no reason that part of the profits should not be allocated to workers only if the company assembly decides to share the balance sheet profit. Work as one of the two key production factors in the company undisputedly contributes to the creation of the added value of the company. The objective socio-economic reality thus dictates the participation of this production factor in the division of profits. If workers can contribute to the existence of businesses in times of economic crisis by giving up their jobs, it is only right that they are properly rewarded in good times and in a successful business. Regrettably, there are endlessly many problems and closures that do not help workers and workers when we start talking about workers and workers. Our view is that workers and workers should share fate even when there are good times in companies, and of course when there are bad times. In recent times, unfortunately, we have seen only the bad times that workers and workers had to share. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support the form of compulsory participation of workers in profit and we will gladly support such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Matjaž Zanoškar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! Allow the representative position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in profits. Our parliamentary group has been monitoring the implementation of this law throughout, including during the previous government mandate. And just as our client advocates the principles of solidarity, reciprocity and social justice, we were not satisfied with the implementation of this law, especially because the data also say that workers were involved in the sharing of profits in springs. So 24 companies, 24 companies were the ones that shared the profits for the workers. We therefore welcome the proposal of the law before us, because we hope that this will lay down the law and provide for the law to bring about changes in a positive direction, that is, for what our parliamentary group as well as the party, the Democratic Party of the Retired, is taking. So the workers are supposed to be involved in profit sharing. Of course, we do not think that we are the only parliamentary group that has faced a great dilemma in these discussions, the dilemma of volunteerism and the dilemma of the obligation to share profits. If we look at the EU guidelines and proposals, then we can say that it tends to be shared primarily on a voluntary basis. Of course, it is true that it is on a voluntary basis, but when it is exposed to a mechanism through which it is possible and a realisation is given that companies that generate profits share this in workers. However, since this does not seem to be the case in our case, so far the mechanisms have not worked in this direction, we are committed to supporting, and we have also supported the amendment to Article 3, which introduces the compulsory division of profits. Of course, this compulsory profit sharing is at a limit of 25%, so 25% of the profits made are the workers involved in the division. And up to 25% of that still remains on a voluntary basis. We advocate that mechanisms, as has been said, either in the tax sense or in the tax sense, make a possible division of up to 25% on a voluntary basis and that when profits exceed 25% of a business, then this division is mandatory for workers. I think that the position of the DeSUS Group is right for employers and employees and that such an arrangement would be fair, in some way would protect workers and, on the other hand, employers. We also fully agree with the debates that have been held so far. Of course, employers have an interest in making profits. And where conditions are good, there they will invest their free finances and also invest in some development. However, I think that this mandatory participation of 25% further should not be an issue, a controversy, a problem or a thought of not investing their own free funds in investments in a country which has such provisions. The DeSUS Group supports the combined system, i.e. volunteerism and commitment, which is also stated in the amendment proposals to Article 3 of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u18	Good afternoon. Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister! In general, we have to be honest. Recently, we have only observed that the Government is working hard to implement such an exit strategy is not to move from words to actions and realities. This is the first law of some that we will deal with today and tomorrow, which shows that the state is thinking right and the government is thinking right. It wants to close as many social transfers as possible and wants to achieve that more people will work more than they will live on a state-run manger by means of measures, lower taxes and stimulating employers and workers. This needs to be said objectively. As far as the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in profits is concerned, it is quite clear that we support it in the Slovenian National Party. We also support the part where we are cosigners of the amendment that participation in profit must be compulsory. Why? I don't know if it's the law or the law or the law. I think life writes laws. Who makes the profit? He's a worker. It is true that the investor is the one who gives the capital and from this capital has all the right to receive part of the profit. It is also true that the worker creates this profit and therefore the worker has every right to have some of this profit. The worker has a mandatory right to a "received" in the pronunciations when the business is bad. But this right is far worse than this right. The employee involved in the company’s poor performance is firstly involved because he receives a late salary; later he is involved because he does not receive a salary at all. And the worst penalty for a worker's participation in a loss in a company is to lose his job. And if it has "right" under the terms that it is involved in bad business, it has the absolute right to be complicit in profit as well. Of course, there is still a question, as it was, who will be and how many who will want to share despite the profits made. Of course, they will manipulate and, according to the amended proposal of the law, many will share a profit of up to 19% or 20%, thus excluding the element of the obligation set out in Article 3. It's also fair to ask what that means. It is true that if such a law is enforced as it is, there will be a reduction in corporate tax revenues. On the other hand, if we look at the income of the profit workers, we can also expect an increase in the public finances of taxes. Well, what's the difference, we don't know, but it's also fair to look at it. The question already raised today, and for the last time, is the question of foreign capital. If we adopt this law, then foreign investors - "bobo", under the terms - will go away. Yeah, where are they now that there's no tax? They have the same opportunity to invest in Slovenia now, but they are not. They will come if they see an interest in the quality of the work of Slovenian workers, whether this law will or will not exist. As far as I know some foreign entrepreneurs, even with great pleasure to my workers, if they are good, pay and profit; I know them. So that's the excuse from the vine. And what we have heard today is about France, and that we cannot be like France. The Slovenian national party still insists on its identical position: we care, we care about others, we care about our people, we care about Slovenia! If it's only France that has such a law, it's only France. Even if France didn't have one, why wouldn't we have one? Why wouldn't Slovenia be the first place? Many words have been spoken under the amendments to Article 3, but I think it is right that such an amendment has been adopted. I think that the content of the complementary law is right, and I think it is right for us to decide together, regardless of the different words, and we will also support this law, and time will bring its own. And let me add, in conjunction with other laws that are being prepared, I think this is the right way.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 3, the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and the amendment of the SD and DeSUS groups of Members. At the same time, I inform you that the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party has withdrawn its amendment to Article 3. Who wants to discuss the amendments to Article 3? I'm asking you to sign up. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me present in the introduction the principle view that the current government, especially the coalition or part of this coalition, is much too busy sharing, and much too little about how to create what we would share. This is crucial to me, and it is crucial through all the current measures of the government. And the last balance that we have in some way in the media is revealing. In fact, there are no serious initiatives on how to start an economic cycle in Slovenia, so how to enable people to share at all, that people will have jobs, that pensioners will have pensions, that students will have scholarships, that those unemployed will have cash benefits, that social supporters will have social assistance. All of this creates an economy and no one else, respectable. No public servant creates this added value that we can share, but uses it. And when you work so hard on how to share, it is very much forgotten how to create this and how to create favourable conditions for economic activity in Slovenia, for investment, for new products, for value added, also for profit increase. And only then, of course, can it be shared. So this is the general conclusion, which will accompany and monitor the whole debate today on this law. I believe that we should take priority in Slovenia in how to create more for division, but not how to share more, and of course not or at another stage, or not at all how to create that, that we will share. That's why I'm saying this marriage is very empty. He's empty about not sharing anything under this law. See profit or corporate income tax data for the first months of this year. It's a waste, according to the prognosis. Two and a half times less than last year, but it was sad last year because we were already in crisis in 2009. It's nice to talk about how to share. In each family, family members, especially younger ones, talk about how to share. I would do that, I would do that, he would do that, and someone would have to create that. And in the Slovenian Democratic Party, in all of our packages to get out of the crisis, we drew attention to this particular segment of how to create. We have therefore also proposed measures to relieve the economy of how to stimulate investment in order to create it. The amendment to Article 3 was also made by us because an amendment was adopted on the Committee, which introduces a mandatory division of profits where more is created or where it will be shared with shareholders, capital owners, i.e. more than 25%. This will also be shared by the balance sheet profit, which is significantly higher than net profit, because of course it is an accounting category that has not yet been cleared of taxes and other things. This solution, which was adopted by the Committee under Article 3, will dramatically cut into the existing rights of shareholders, capital owners in the company. It is therefore, of course, justified to listen to the economy in this case. The economy represents these capital owners, not least employers in the broadest sense of the word. In fact, they assess unanimously. They are all united in the fact that this will drastically hamper the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy and decide whether, for example, purely family enterprises, private companies, foreign investors will still invest in us. Wouldn't they rather look for investment in a more attractive economy in the immediate vicinity? Also in the Balkans, where labour is even cheaper, new markets are opening up and similar. Remember, the Slovenian economy competes with 26 more economies within the European Union and competes globally with countless economies. Some are uncompetitive for such and other reasons because they are too far away, some are too expensive, some are too cheap, but in our immediate vicinity are the economies we are competing with: Italy, Austria, Hungary, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Croatia, last but not least Bosnia, Serbia, etc. These are economies, these are our competitors, not just for foreign investments, respected, even for domestic investors. And when someone compares all these indicators and realizes that in some indicators we already have sad results, say, flexibility in the labour market. Any effort by any government has been undermined by the efforts of trade unions. There's nothing you can do here. We have very difficult labour legislation and, of course, we are uncompetitive to have a headache. We've got a high job tax. There's obviously nothing to be done here, either. Now another nail in the competitiveness of the national economy. I am sure that this measure will not attract any investor. This measure will not attract anyone, certainly not. If you have to do something, instead of being able to do something, it's a red light for someone or at least a yellow light. I think it is right to maintain a voluntary but tax- and bureaucraticly attractive profit-sharing scheme. Now the Social Democrats explain to all speakers how to share profits. I agree. The workers are well-deserving, and they're entitled to profit. They have to get it. At the same time, however, I ask you, since we have recently passed a law in the previous government on the sharing of profits for workers, before that in all the governments in which you were Social Democrats you have never adopted, you have always proposed impossible solutions that have not been adopted. First time. You have been following your own principles, walking your own principles by proposing something that is not consistent with social dialogue. This proposal for compulsory profit sharing has not been aligned with the social partners. You are sworn in a coalition contract in all your principles for social dialogue, to coordinate solutions between the social partners. Social partners are not just trade unions, they are employers. You haven't aligned these solutions with them. If you are, tell me when and with whom. You haven't agreed because employers are united that this is inconsistent with them. Not only did you not coordinate, you didn't even coordinate. You didn't even ask anyone for his comments, but as I would say, you cowardly even on the committee yourself "snatched" with this amendment in the text of the law and you're making a great populism here. I'm popular because there's nothing to share. The other thing would be if we had a few billion balance sheet profits and we were talking about sharing that. So a few hundred million will be this year, and we'll see how and where it ends. If you wanted to share the profits in fact, if you wanted this to be mandatory, then you would have used one measure that you had already used when you wanted state companies to lower salaries to management, management and supervisory authorities. You have adopted guidelines with which you have committed supervisory councils through the congregations to limit the awards to the administrations in order to limit the prizes to the supervisors. Why did you not accept, respected, the same instructions for sharing profits with employees? Please don't answer me why we haven't already done this. We could not do this because the law was passed in April 2008. For the first time, it was only when the balance sheets for 2008 were known, that is, in 2009, when you had to exercise in your hands. I'm already telling you that you won't tell me what you did. One more time. Here, with a similar instruction, if interest were involved, companies could commit themselves to share the 2008 balance sheet profit, which was large if I am not mistaken about EUR 3 billion. But then there would be something to share, and you didn't do it, but now you come up with solutions to share something that can't be shared, because it's not, simply said. The balance sheet profit will be, I don't know when this law will be enforced, we will be talking about sharing profits in 2010, and today you can read in the reports on how much of this balance sheet profit is estimated to be, because we have data for the first four months. I believe that the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democrats is fair to this extent because it imposes some kind of compulsory division on companies where the country is more than 10% owner. Why? These companies were one way or another probably in some social property before, and this company was dismembered by ownership in one way or another between private investors and companies. It was created by workers of previous generations and it is right that, in the light of solidarity, part of this profits are now employed in these companies. Of course, there are many questions, such as some family companies that have grown out of the garage, craftsmen who are accidentally d.o.o. Now, not the S.P.s, who have therefore set up a company with their capital and may even want to expand or even attract foreign investors, why by this compulsory division they should be diverted from development and investment. I therefore believe that the solution would be a solution, if a compulsory division were in force in accordance with your proposal to companies that are 10 per cent or more of state-owned, a solution that would be substantially more just and at the same time less affect the competitiveness of the national economy. Because the state of Slovenia, where it owns, will invest in one way or another, because it will eat this bar with its teeth pressed. A foreign investor or a private, domestic investor would not have rejected such a provision. On the other hand, I think that most of the employees or a large part of the employees are in these companies, which are 10 % or more state-owned. And here's another question I'm asking you - this government: is there an assessment made of the loss of revenue in the state budget, due to the introduction of a mandatory profit-sharing? Firstly, the state will seriously ask whether it will share or even draw profits from companies. As part will land elsewhere, but not in the budget, these decisions will make it less profitable in the budget. Secondly, it will be smaller because a smaller state will be able to share it as a shareholder. And it will be very interesting how this measure affects all the efforts of the European Union now and also alerts the Bank of Slovenia to give the devil a reduction in the deficit. It also reduces the deficit in such a way that certain revenue is kept in the budget, in particular dividend income in companies. First of all, there won't be any of these dividends, because there aren't many, and second of all, you're gonna nail them with this. Your Honor! With all due respect for your high-flying objectives, the other side should also be mindful of what such a measure means for those who create in Slovenia. Please tell me one argument about how this measure, which you are proposing, will stimulate economic activity in Slovenia, encourage investment in Slovenia, encourage employment in Slovenia. I really want to hear it.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u22	If anyone is a populism in the National Assembly, Mr. Visjak, it is very difficult to compete with you. However, a few answers may be given, although I have never been Minister for the Economy, I have never had the opportunity to regulate this matter, unlike you, who say that you have passed a law in the past term. Of course we've accepted it, but it doesn't give any results. It should therefore be amended and the Government has therefore proposed a change. And already the basic text of the law proposed by the Government is much better than what you have adopted or proposed and adopted by the National Assembly and would give results in my opinion in any case. But given that we have been committed to compulsory profit sharing, we are also expected not to make differences when we are in opposition and when we are a government party. With regard to profit sharing at the time it was created, there was no possibility. These are the merits of a law that has not provided sufficient incentives for employers or capital owners to decide that some of the profits are also shared among employees. And there are other reasons. It's not just bad marriage, because we could share anyway. But it is a balance sheet profit, Mr. Visjak, and it can also be shared this year. This is a fundamental difference between what you say and what is stated in the law that we are considering and adopting today. Of course, this law is not intended to invite foreign investors to raise employment rates. But it has other effects. And you know exactly that it has other effects. Other laws need to be adopted for what you are saying. And as colleague Barovic said, we are on track, and I am sure that the ministry that proposed this law will take further steps to make the Slovenian economy more competitive. And that, like now, with his hand in his hand, the Ministry of Finance will also help him. Where was the biggest problem with profit sharing? At the Ministry of Finance. As they have become wary in all ways and with all possible receptions, there would be no compulsory share of profits among employees because there would be a loss of revenue in the state budget. However, they did not take into account the other positive things that this law certainly brings. Social dialogue. Of course, we are advocates of social dialogue. We were when you guys weren't talking, and now we need to talk to the unions and the employers. There are always differences, there are always misunderstandings. And you will not say that in your previous mandate you have managed to resolve all agreements with the social partners. It probably won't hold. You've had demonstrations, too, although we've had them before. When we talk about social dialogue, of course it is necessary and we are advocates of social dialogue and it will be so in the future. However, the Treaty is very difficult when employers are on the one hand and employees on the other hand are on the other hand in a particular arrangement. And we can sit on these social talks for 10 years, and we can't get close to social partnership. Employers advocate voluntary profit-sharing, trade unions say that it is mandatory to share profits. And how does that get out of hand? Compromise. And this amendment to Article 3 is a kind of compromise that preserves volunteerism, up to 25% of the profit sharing the company decides whether or not it will share the profits. And if it's shared, up to 25% is not required for division between employees. However, if this limit exceeds 25%, it has to distribute 25% of the balance sheet profit for distribution to workers as well. And we think it's the same because they're making profits. And the last time I said that it was also a kind of philosophical question, of course, it was true. It's about fundamental changes in thinking about who makes the profit. Yesterday I heard that this is what the remnants of socialism in Slovenia think. If that's why I'm in favour of a mandatory share of profits among employed socialist, I'm a socialist, and you can call me that by the end of this term. I won't be ashamed of it because I have nothing to be ashamed of. The result of the social dialogue cannot be achieved, so it has been exceeded in this way, as has actually happened in the process. We have heard many times that this interferes with the constitutional right to property. I already said this in the introduction on behalf of the Group of Members. By 1990 it was all ours or no one's, however you want to take this state property or social property, as we called it. After 1990, some successfully brought this property to their yard. As these procedures were carried out, this is another story, but now they want to protect this property with a constitution. Why was she not protected so well during these years of possession? And now, because of trespassing on property, on the right to property, we must not accept a compulsory share of profits among employees under certain conditions. What about the social function of property that is enshrined in the constitution? They probably take away all those concerns. And when we talk about the possibility of very good investors coming to Slovenia in the coming months, I repeat Mr Barovic's question: Where have they been so far when there is no compulsory profit sharing? They are now waiting for today's decision by the National Assembly, or tomorrow we will vote, and I say that they will not wait for free today to see whether there will be a compulsory division of profits. And if there's a mandatory division of profits, they'll go south, said Dr. Visjak, you'll have to fight there. But if she's volunteering, they're coming to Slovenia tomorrow. Don't joke! You're not serious. The reason for us to take a decision as set out in Article 3 is more than enough. And as I said, this article says that the obligation begins with 25% of the profit sharing. If more than 25% of the profits are distributed, one quarter of this profit will be distributed to employees. And that's the way it is, and we insist on it. Your amendment, however, breaks this possibility because it says that this is mandatory only for societies where the state has more than 10% equity. Of course, we will not support this amendment because it is going back to where we have already been and where we have already tested the success of legislation in this area. In the past, profits were shared when they were. And I also hear many times that it's not the right time to do so. When do you think it's a good time to fix this?Oh, my God! When there was a profit, it wasn't a good time, you turned us down twice. When there's no profit, there's no time when there's no profit, so there's no connection, because there's nothing to share. But I am sure that in this Slovenia there will come a time when profits will come and when we will share them - even among the employees if this law is adopted tomorrow in the same content as it is. I cannot agree, and again, to this claim that under the same conditions, with the same tax incentives, with the same failure to pay the profits from this part of the profit, the owners will also share the profits among the employees if the law writes volunteering. If we record under the same conditions that it is mandatory to split the profit over 25%, but if more than 25% is shared, they will not share it. When my opponents convince me that this is a reality, then I can change my mind. But this opinion, this attitude is ridiculous at first sight and unseriously and for the hair attracted as I said. However, under the same conditions it does not matter whether it is mandatory or optional. And all these calls from individual Members, if you have to reject this arrangement, which is ready, if you give a bad signal, that we have taken something that is not good for the owners, and that in this case they will not share the profits, means unreality, means that even in dreams they did not count on sharing profits among employees as well. If they did, this arrangement wouldn't bother them. Under the same conditions, however, if you are willing to share the principle of volunteering, say that because it is compulsory, you will not share the profits. That's funny, I'll say it again. And when today's position has been expressed that if such an arrangement is adopted and profits are not shared, we accept the responsibility of those who have proposed an amendment. Look, it doesn't matter, really, that we won't be able to verify what would happen if it wasn't in the law, but I'm sure that's not the reason and that it's very difficult to justify that the obligation is a non-delivery of profits and volunteerism, and on the same terms. These are therefore the opposing arguments for the compulsory division of profits. And when we talk about the amendment to this article, let me say that it is necessary and I will also support the amendment tabled by the SD and DeSUS, it would probably have been signed by someone else, and unfortunately there was no time to rush the amendments to be discussed at the National Assembly. Of course, it's operationalizing the decision taken at the parent's working body meeting. This law, with these amendments, is becoming life, real in practice, of course, depending on those who have always made decisions and will also decide in the future whether the profits are shared among employees or not. The amendment proposed by the SDS, which states that compulsory profit sharing is compulsory only for companies where the country has more than 10% of the share, I will not support it because it is a step in the wrong direction, in the direction from which we came. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Replica mags. Andrej Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u24	It has to be replicated because there have been quite a few untruths being said, not to tell a lie, and I will prove them. Respectable, it is a lie that there has not been a coherent solution between the social partners so far and that this state of non-compliance with this solution has now been cut short. That's a lie, Mr. Contic. The current law has been harmonised among the social partners. I have been coordinating the current law with the social partners for almost a year. The solutions to the voluntary distribution of profits to workers according to the principles set out in the law, these tax advantages and the benefits of paying contributions were in line with employers and employees. This is the law that went through social dialogue, and it was finally harmonised. I'm sure at the Ministry, they have the signatures of everyone who's been thrashed in the archives, and they signed under it. With your solution without social dialogue, you have intervened in this agreement. You reached into a deal and broke it. That's why you're against employers now. Not only did you intervene and try to harmonise yourself, but you didn't try to harmonise yourself. You have intervened so hypocritically, I said earlier, in an agreement reached and at the same time declare yourselves to those who respect the agreement between the social partners. What it is is an eccentric example of how social dialogue is being curtailed. When something is agreed when the Ministry and Government propose a law that builds on this agreed in terms of the interests of both workers and employees, the procedures and works are simplified and the work is more attractive, you come with an amendment and cancel this agreement. Your Honor, if this is your notion of social dialogue, then God help us in this country. That's what you did. And you have previously deceived the Slovenian public when you said that you have cut off on one side the interests of employers after volunteering and on the other hand the interests of employees according to obligations. Employers and employees agreed and signed that the result, which is legal, is a common result that this is a compromise that this is an agreement. Therefore, please do not mislead the public at this point of social dialogue.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When we adopted a law on the participation of workers in profit in the previous term, we all had two good things in mind. First of all, we considered that this was good for the economy, that it was encouraging for the economy to see what was promised today in this new proposal to increase the identity of employees with businesses, to reduce fluctuations, to reduce abstinence, etc. And secondly, we felt that it was right for those who made profits to be involved later. Unfortunately, empirical data has shown that, despite good intentions, the victim was seized. It wasn't luck what was wanted. And this is evidenced by the fact that among those very rare companies that did share profits with employees, there are no large companies among them that are not state-owned companies, at least more visible, as far as ownership is concerned. We know that very little profit has been distributed among employees, and we also know that those who have decided to do so have not been much. This law, which is now before us, and the amendments to a separate article, seeks to undo those flaws that the previous law had. And it's all about the same goals again. On the one hand, we find that the applicant also writes that it is a decommissioning of the economy. This is probably encouraging for the economy. On the other hand, we are again promising that those who have generated profits will benefit from its division so that more employees will also benefit from this profit. An amendment that has not been tabled for the purpose of breaking this law to the Committee on the Economy, but with a view to changing the way to achieving these objectives, is an amendment which had the following in mind. First of all, it is not right that those who made profits were not involved in its division. Secondly, it is not right that profit was divided very arbitrarily. Without any logic at all, you might say. Otherwise, participation, as far as percentages are concerned, would be significantly higher, the number of companies would be significantly higher, and those who would receive this profit would also be much higher. Now it happened that something very small company did share, but the vast majority that made the profit did not. So the management and owners decided purely arbitrarily on how the profits would be split. And that's what we'd just like to fix. That it would not be a coincidence that some who made profits would be involved. Many others, who also created it, did not. Now it's just a coincidence. If the principle of volunteering were to work in such a way that the bulk of the employees would also benefit from profit sharing, our concerns would probably be lower than they are now. Unfortunately, we have no other option than to assure the Minister that he has spoken to a number of managements who have promised, if there is volunteering, they will share profits. But this assurance is so weak that it is given at any time, even to change or conceal the word given to it. And once again, it will turn out that the employees were somehow played to avoid participating in sharing what they were creating. I am not sure when it is said that this will reduce competitiveness, that any of our companies are less competitive if this same profit is obtained by either owners or employees if it does not therefore return to technological improvements, to improvements in safety at work and to other forms of promoting competitiveness. I am also not sure that if this law is burdening the economy that might be affected by this unloading, they will now be fleeing abroad. Why, if they have reliefs here and we're unloading them here? And I'm not sure that those who are also supposed to invest capital in us are now going to have a lot of concerns when instead of paying a profit tax to workers, they're going to pay a little bit of profit to them, and therefore they're going to be burdened because that's considered tax-recognizable. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Andrey Magain has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u28	Mr. President of the National Assembly, Mr. Secretary. Colleagues and colleagues! I support the idea of compulsory profit sharing, despite forecasts of bureaucratic burdens and tax reliefs. Already, the speakers felt that they were afraid if these obligations were not made, there would be no interest in sharing. Despite the fact that the law so far was flawed, the data show that there was no interest. There will be no interest because the system already has a conflict of interest between owners and workers. As long as we have this category distinction between owners and workers, there will also be conflicts of interest and there will be no interest in division. There has been a compromise on the Committee on the Economy. After this compromise amendment, profits should only necessarily be split if the company shares more than a quarter of the profit on the balance sheet, otherwise up to 25% would be voluntary. I am also afraid, as Mr Barovic has already said, that speculation will occur, that owners will be careful to share 20%, 23%, 24%, and more than 25% will probably change their minds. I am not most impressed with the compromise, but it is still a huge step forward. So we have a qualitative leap in relation to overvalue. The profit isn't just about exclusive owners, it's about thinking, moving in our heads. The worker becomes in a way an entity and not just a balance sheet cost. The profits are always influenced by all participants and stakeholders. We're aware that it's not the same. The Pond, or weight of one shareholder, involved in the process of designing the value of the product may be different, depending on the sector, from a particular company. At the moment, we do not have a methodology for objective evaluation, which is the right and fair relationship. 25% for workers can be even unfair in certain cases. This is a sector where we have a highly skilled workforce where the value of equipment is relatively low and the value is in the education and knowledge of workers. In this case, this share should be higher. Regardless of the apprehension and methodological problems, I believe that this is an extremely important novelty that will eventually show who is who. The key differentiation will take place at this very point, between the liberal value position and the social democratic starting points. I am not surprised, therefore, by the LDS’s position, nor at all, but I expected more attention on the other hand to this issue. I'm talking about SDS. This party was named the Social Democratic Union of Slovenia at the time of its establishment. I know this very well because I was co-founder, together with Francet Tomšič and Gorazd Drevenski, we were translating social-democratic European programmes and we wanted to introduce a new modern social-democratic party and we were looking for bridges for parties to democratic reconstruction. This party has also opted for a social-democratic concept. However, there are apparently no more Social Democrats on the other hand, perhaps some will come forward, and some will vote in favour of this amendment. Well, a little more of a joke. And the mandatory profit sharing will, hopefully, finally trigger another shift in our heads. Movement in perception of ownership or definition of owners. In 1990 we moved from social property to the market economy, we wanted a titler, an asset holder. Above all, we were faced with the alienation and theft of social property that had leaked into private pockets. We're talking about use and abuse. The first government also has some credit for this because it did not introduce a system and control mechanism to protect social property, and the government continued to do so after 1992. Social property has been the subject of exploitation and abuse. If we had a different model at the time, if the worker had become a decision-making body and had been involved in profit, tycunisation might not have taken place as much as it did in Slovenia. The product is always the property of everyone. Someone may own the facility, the machine, the "know-how", but the final product is always the property of all who are participants. This, however, will also have to bring about different decision-making models that may be triggered by this debate once, even in Parliament. It's not just about getting to know each other, but, we have to admit, it's about fighting interests. Why wouldn't smaller countries be innovative, we've heard that today. Who talked about the lighthouse? About the lift to the top of the world? Does this apply only to the product? Does this not also apply to different relationships in the creation of this product and in the sharing of the results of the work? Is it not a key added value in the knowledge and recognition that we are all owners of the product we have created?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. As my colleague Posedel has announced, we do have a common view in the Group of Members that the law is good, that the law is necessary, and that we are thinking a little separately about Article 3 or the amendment adopted by the Committee. Even without this amendment, the law would be good because it improves the state and inefficiency of the legislation so far. And with this amendment, in my opinion and in my opinion, the marriage is even better, so I will support it. Even if that makes me a socialist or a socialist, I am absolutely not ashamed of it, I will take that as a compliment, because we are a liberal and a social party. Within our parties there is a debate on how to value the work, the role and the place to give to this essential segment and the factor of capital creation and the creation of added value. The debate may be somewhat academic. We do not have many models to determine whether commitment or volunteering is effective. We have one country, this is France, and I miss a thorough analysis of the effects of compulsory participation on profits in France. But it is very easy to believe that France is one of the most competitive European countries, that it is one of those most facing the challenges of crisis and recession, and therefore I do not have the elements to assess the negative impact of compulsory participation in profit in this country. Even in other countries, although not compulsory, it is well stimulated and these incentives help to better identify workers with their businesses and to think differently. Yesterday, in a conversation with some union representatives, it was also interesting to hear that, while this law is good, it is welcome, but it is not essential, because we have other, more concrete, more important things to solve. And this is where they predict the most intense debate on some other packages, especially the labour market and pension reform. I hope that this positive tension will remain, in a social sense, in that debate as well. If we return to compulsory profit participation, at this point it may be an operationally not excessively effective step, because profits, as we hear, are not or are very modest. However, this is a proposal put forward by the Committee and proposed by the SD Group of Members, but it is a compromise solution that penalises one, punishes those who create little profit and are in fact on the verge of survival or their own development. Here we are talking only about those companies that generate more than 25% of the profits and where it is perfectly normal to think that this profit should be rewarded not only by the administrations or owners but also by the worker. That's what this is about. If this profit is distributed, it must be distributed in such a way that the owner assesses the work accordingly. One argument against the obligation to profit is the risk of stimulating so-called creative accounting. That's a risk. But I think, when we discuss the obligation to participate in profit, we also need to think about greater and more effective financial discipline. Look, Greece was the country where they were accountingly the most creative and they're where they are. Such terminology, in fact, only in other words, cheating or lying, must be prevented in another way. And this is a question of the financial resource, which will have to deal with these very complex issues sooner or later, in fact, by avoiding paying or displaying the balance sheets in its true image. It is not just profit, it is a fundamental question of how to involve employment in business management. I do not understand this issue without thinking about two other key issues: the labour stock, which I think we are already behind, and co-management. These two concepts are linked to participation in profit, and sooner or later we will have to address these important changes in the perception of worker and capital participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Franz Gniedarsich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I support the mandatory profit-sharing law for workers. I also support the amendment tabled by the SD Group of Members and, of course, DeSUS, especially because it operationalises a solution to compulsory profit sharing, under specific conditions and limited scope, according to the solutions they are. But I am sure that the primary division of created values in our country is unfair because workers with the lowest wages are below the poverty threshold or there. A fair division would be such that full-time workers have such a salary to provide them with a pension beyond the poverty threshold after a successful conclusion of their full-time work. Today, we have at least 200,000 employees in the country whose pension would be below the poverty threshold at such a rate, which of course means that capitalist regulation and the system are actually exploited in this part, and it would also show more resources, and in particular for employers with profits, to focus on a gradual increase in wages, especially the lowest, although this might cause a slight contraction of the wage ratios. In fact, compared to developed European countries, they are too small and are therefore not encouraging. Compulsory profit-sharing may be an incentive for workers to make greater profits for companies and then expect their share. The compulsory distribution of profits is therefore well supported and I hope that employers, due to this obligation, will not block the possible growth of wages for those who are successful and thus avoid, in the relatively modest part of the distribution of profits, the payment of contributions and taxes. However, wages, which are actually the basic source of social security and social security, will stagnate. In doing so, it is a shame that the existing law was not sufficiently taken into account at a time when there was more profit. On the other hand, I wonder where billions of profits have emerged in the past that have obviously not been poured into investments and even fewer into jobs that are less than we have had. The solution to this law is a step forward in favour of the participation of workers in the overall performance and performance of businesses. However, he is not the only one who needs to be well-being and that workers will be pleased to identify with the company, to feel that they are part of this story, that they are, not to say, co-owners, and therefore have a long-term interest in greater success and greater participation in making a profit. It is clear that I will not support that SDS amendment which distorts the real purpose of this law and speaks of companies that are to a certain extent owned by the State. As such, however, I think that the new incentive is for workers and that is why I support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is "Silven Tiny."
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister! It is certainly necessary to stimulate people with a well-paid job and participation in profit, as well as to give and put out social peace through transfers that ensure the survival of people and, as I have already said, social peace. Satisfied worker also ensures greater productivity and quality of life for all who depend on this story. Some companies have already shared profits with workers, and as we have seen, all these well-standing companies where profit sharing has proved to be stimulating. But I'm sure not everyone shares that opinion. And that is why it is necessary to prescribe by law a share that will also be realistically acceptable to owners and will not be detrimental to development and research for businesses. Every novelty is certainly accepted with some doubt, but in most cases it will prove to be better if not good. Trade unions have always pointed out that they should be involved in the profits of workers when companies are doing well, not only when they are doing badly and they need to be able to save businesses from red numbers. All the time, it was pointed out to companies held by foreigners. They have all the profits from the country and they whistle at the climate that is currently in the country. They think in the interests of the owner who wants to make money, but they don't think about sharing profits. Workers are only a labour force for these owners, which must ensure a high added value, as otherwise it is written off as an amortised machine. It is therefore appropriate to provide workers with a profit when creative and additional value is high. One of the craftsmen once told me that the workers have a salary of all over EUR 1000, and they are also complicit in the profits. It's a Slovenian craftsman. Where the company does not have enough to pay its wages and is on the border of the guaranteed salary, let the company close because it is hurting everyone, and the biggest damage to workers, their families and subcontractors. As we can see, they always keep the best. Those who thought of the bad times when everyone was doing well. Today they stand up and do not complain that it is a recession, but it is also a pleasure among workers who are also involved in profit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u36	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister! I will support the proposal for a law on employee participation in profit. I'm also going to support the SD amendment because it's kind of logical. Logic is shown to be such that up to 25% is not required to share, and over 25% is compulsory to share profits. This also stems from the so-called entrepreneurial logic. You know I come from entrepreneurship. And if the assessment was that it was 20% of the companies, that is, those who created this net profit, also shared, then it was a step forward or a step in the right direction, especially from entrepreneurial logic, as I originally said. What does this division of profits also mean among workers? Does that mean a lot more than some of you might be able to put on? This means motivation for workers to build belonging to society, to build an orderly relationship of equality, care, responsibility. It refers to a positive responsibility or otherwise, even workers are willing to do more, to make this profit, because otherwise it will not be, which also works for the workers. Of course, there has been a lot of talk about the fact that productivity in Slovenia is poor, that we are incompatible with Europe. So this is also one of the steps to be taken for motivational gains, how to improve quality, productivity, achieve positive results or goals, and create net profit in general. That's the point. I don't know a businessman or a manager who wouldn't want to share his profits if, of course, he was created to that extent. I can assure you that I know a lot of colleagues who are already doing this, who already have this, who have figured it out years ago because they wanted to create within the company harmony, belonging, work, responsibility for all the same: managers and even those workers who are in lower jobs. That's what any individual who works in a company, big or small, could just want. This means that division is only possible when profit is generated. All individuals, all departments within companies, and all must play a positive role in this creation. If everyone plays a positive role in the company, there will be a profit. I should probably have a little bit of a reaction to that. There have been many debates in the Committee on the Economy, there has been a lot of talk about it, and there has been a lot of dissatisfaction. If I tried to pull some things from a positive perspective. There was talk of how bad this division is for new companies. I don't think so. There's no motivation for new companies. I don't think that's appropriate. New companies, according to statistics like this, the illusion is that in the first, second, third year, the new company is expected to create no profit. This is usually after a few years of business. After five years, profits usually begin to be generated in new companies as well. The period of five years when the new company meets is that you have to work hard and do a lot of things to make a positive business at all. A lot of negative things have also been said about companies coming from abroad waiting for them to come to Slovenia and start their activities here. I don't see any reservations in that either. They're all welcome. And even if they're foreign companies, if they're making profits, I don't see any reason why they wouldn't share them among the workers if they came in over 25%. After all, it is clear, however, that foreign companies based in other countries and we know what can be done or manipulated today with financial statements, so that I see nothing wrong here, that even with this novel, which we today or will confirm, we will attract foreign companies to come to us. After all, we are known for having good and hardworking workers and workers. That way, I will be happy to support the proposal today. However, there is still a need to hold a debate so that, of course, we can identify the good and the bad, and perhaps some years from now we can fix something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before, the replica was not possible, but I overlooked that it was a replica, and I apologize for wanting a word. About the lie. The social dialogue was over, the results were in the law proposed by the minister to the government and the government adopted and forwarded to Parliament. Of course, I would expect nothing more from the union than what they did. They agreed on a compromise that improves the existing situation, improves the current bad law and goes in the right direction. It's not about the goal they set themselves, but it's going in the right direction. And when they took into account the real possibility in politics and in the National Assembly, regarding taking this important decision, they of course considered that this was the range that was at this point in time. In doing so, they have ignored all our efforts throughout the years, leading directly to the goal that the unions have set themselves. This is the share of profits in a mandatory way: that is, the actual share of profits. In volunteering, I should be allowed to question the purpose of the owners to share the profits. So the path has gone in the right direction and the consensus of the unions within the social dialogue is perfectly logical. The situation is changing in the National Assembly when the possibility is detected in the air that this law can be bloated with the content that we all want together for so long. And that's what we did on the Economics Committee. The Committee on the Economy is a parent working body, is open to the public, it is possible to monitor this discussion on the parent working body and it is possible to attend those interested, in this case there was the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, were representatives of the Association of Employers of Slovenia and was a representative of trade unions. And as one party advocated a proposed solution based on volunteerism, the union representative said he supported the amendment tabled jointly by the parties to the mandatory profit sharing in certain cases and under certain conditions. That's the whole story. And it's not a lie. If there's anything bothering me, it bothers me that someone's telling me a lie. It bothers me even more, or at least it bothers me even if someone tells me that I'm cowardly. Because I haven't really met you in my life. I may be in the future, but I didn't know it until now. What bothers me, though, is that my cowardice is evident by someone who, at the time of the ministry, called for a radio show and introduced himself as Andrew of Styria at the time he served as minister. And the same one now shows me cowardice and concealment. No, I made this public as Bojan Kontič at the Committee on the Economy and I also stand for it. I'm not hiding anything because I was first signed under the bill both times when they were rejected. So there is no secret that I am advocating a mandatory profit-sharing and will insist on this in the future. And one more thing when I'm on the phone. I have heard many times the argument that responsibility for loss should be considered, not just participation in profits. This means that in the event of a profit, capital owners will receive a profit. This is questionable for workers because these same workers do not lose profits or lose part of their property in the event of a company or company operating in a loss. That's an awkward thing to do. Especially because we know who loses the most in these cases. It is true that the capital owner loses part of his assets and finds a market niche elsewhere and directs the rest of these assets elsewhere. A worker usually loses his job. First part of the salary, then the work, sometimes the departures, and then something else. And now who's the one who's responsible for the loss. As a rule, no one is responsible for the loss. The short end is drawn by the employees. That is why this argument does not hold up serious judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We support the law in the Slovenian People's Party, but we are convinced that it would be much easier and that it would be much easier to talk about it and also about all the amendments if it were put into the national assembly procedure in a package with another, especially labour law. If we remember, we passed the Minimum Wage Act in this house a long time ago, with which we burdened the economy. As a counterweight to this necessary measure, we have not yet taken any action. In order, on the other hand, to burden the economy, we also burdened the economy. In the SLS, we are convinced that the division of the balance sheet profit among workers, if an undertaking chooses to split it at all, should be mandatory. For we believe that it would be right, fair, fair and fair for workers to share the fate of the business in the bad and also, I stress, in the good times. In the last two years, we have witnessed workers sharing the fate of especially bad times. But it's not that far back, at a time of high economic growth, but there were good times when companies had big profits. Unfortunately, at that time, it was not heard that workers shared the fate of these good times. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, on the Committee on the Economy, we proposed an amendment for the mandatory division of the balance sheet profit of 25%, without the condition that it is not shared if only 25% of the profits are shared, which was the proposal of some other parliamentary groups. Then, due to the systemic non-conformity of the law and in particular to the danger of having difficulties in adopting, this amendment has been withdrawn and supported the proposed amendment of some parliamentary groups. Over the past two years, there have been a lot of speeches about the sharing of profits, the salaries of managers, the establishment of a new balance in the economy, and I don't know what else. Most of all, there was a lot of talk. In this case, too, there is a great deal of speech from which, of course, the workers will have nothing. If we are serious, then this step needs to be taken seriously and clearly and a commitment or, if you want, compulsory participation of workers in profit. So far, volunteering has not provided the right solutions. Only 24 companies or 0.28% of employees participated in profit. And of these 24 companies, by the way, only one company that is owned by the majority or majority of the state and all the other 23 companies are privately owned. We could say that private-owned companies are much more aware of the importance of a satisfied worker. They are aware of what motivation means, and they are aware of what it means to be part of the company. Some economists understand that. I'm sorry, just some. Which is hard to understand, because Slovenia has a history from another country where workers have been treated differently; but I am not talking about some rocks now to go back there, God forbid. Today, however, some have become worse capitalists, such as capitalists in countries where capitalism has been around for a hundred years or more. And I will not deliberately discuss how these capitalists have come to this property, to own it. Some, of course, in a fair manner, but many, unfortunately, do not. I am aware of the interests of the economy, capital, owners, shareholders and so on. Also, there was a lot of talk when the predecessors spoke about possible reductions or a smaller volume of foreign investment. By the way, do you think foreign companies really show all the profits here in Slovenia? I don't think so. You know, there are a million ways in which this profit is made and here in Slovenia, very elegantly, in one way or another, "too thin", under the terms, to the headquarters of companies abroad. Compare, for example, Lek and Krk. Is that even comparable? What profit does Krk have, and what kind of profit does Lek have? What remains in Slovenia and what does not remain in Slovenia? Have you ever heard of the profits of many foreign trading chains in Slovenia? Marble palaces, shops, everything flashes. Where are the profits? Does our country have any of these profits? Of course, I do not dispute foreign investment in Slovenia, but I also want to show the other side of the medal. And probably this will happen in the future, there is no reason for anything to change, even if this amendment on compulsory employee participation in profit will be changed. It's gonna stay the same. All these profits from foreign companies will go abroad. But maybe our companies that have outposts abroad are doing something different? That's the law of capital. This is the essence of everything - expanding production, expanding the scope of business. Then the profit comes to the seat, into the corporation. Look, this greed for money has to be stopped. Slovenia and Europe need a new economic and social model, a new economic and social balance. The gap that is increased by this hike in money, where there is no choice of ways, where no choice of means, where it forgets values, where it forgets about ethics, humanity, is not going anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is a pity that we have to talk in this way today about the possible sharing of profits among workers. Someone today mentioned socialism in an inappropriate way. What's wrong with that? At that time we shared in our Slovenian socialism at the end of the so-called accounts. I worked in a good company, I'm proud of that time, and I'm proud of that time, too, because I learned a lot there, and I had a good salary. At the time of privatisation, I submitted my certificates to this company. I have to say, one of those people I haven't speculated on and I've been getting such beautiful dividends in the long run, we're actually getting a profit. Unfortunately, in many companies this privatisation has been reduced in any way. People get squeezed, they get nothing for stocks, and they don't get any profits. At the time when it went bad, when the company had to be put on its feet, it worked on them. When profits were made, they were not shared, once again at their own expense, as they knew and knew, especially for their own interests. In principle, I support this law. Of course, it will have to be finished, they remain afraid. I would also like to express that in our society we need to understand that we need each other, employers of workers, workers of pleasure and employers of satisfactory workers. Only a satisfied worker is a successful worker and brings profits to the company. And until they understand that in this country, I don't know if we can talk about profits. And also our schools, because they're raised, but then it all comes with the years, life adds its own, and then you can do it properly. At the time of the privatisation, we were all trumpeted as to how we would be more successful if we went on the path of capitalism. I must say, they didn't convince me at the time. And even then, I didn't believe that the country couldn't be a good master. If you care about people like you care about companies, that you have a frame for the time when new times come when they can follow it, you might as well do so at the level of the country. I read somewhere in Chile under the rule of Pinochet, he gave the best economists to go out into the world and then these economists set up an economy that works very well today. And if long-term plans are made, there's a lot of good that can be done. Where did this privatisation take us, this greed? Now we have the last case, those who didn't privatize in the first wave went into the second wave. In the second wave, they went into what they went into. Mercury has very serious problems. If Mercator is going to save Mercury by accident, the question is whether they won't even sink. I don't think that was a good policy. And they don't have anything to share. Workers have 450 euros in salaries there. It's a great grief. First they gave up 10% of their salary for the company to stand, and today they're here where they are. I don't know. This is the country's fault. On the other hand, we have private companies, companies that have grown up with the personal involvement of the owner. I'm not going to name a company, I'm just going to say the starting letter "A," because this politician's owner doesn't like us. When I come to him, we talk, but he says, "I don't like politicians' Guido, because I've had a lot of cooking done to me in such a way that I can't do well at home with my workers." In addition to stimulating his people, this entrepreneur rewarded them with coffee in addition to the legally determined amounts that must be available for food at work. These people boasted about the kind of good employer they worked for in their environment. Well, then the inspector came in and taxed him for that part he put in there. You know, if that's how you work to see such a quick fear in a part like this, then we're really not stimulating to such companies. And this company successfully survived the crisis without the help of the state, but could have done otherwise. Today, however, it has so much production that it has a simple spatial distress that it already has this "sweet" problem that it will have to solve so that it can continue the matter. And look, before I said that the country can't be a good owner, or we hear anything else about Lek. By the time this happened, Lek was sold, we can't hear anything about Lek anymore, but it was one company that we could all be very proud of. I am sure that we need this law, but we need it because employers are not yet aware of it, so that we can also share some of our profits among workers. Unfortunately, we have to do this with the law, I'd rather see that it's in people alone to know that it's necessary to share both good and bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Lois Posedel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. I am convinced that if today had not been an amendment to Article 3 or had not been tabled at the Committee on the Economy, the debate on this law would have been concluded and tomorrow voted and probably unanimously supported by this law. It is so good to be prepared and to take into account what the previous government has drawn up, which has adopted a law that has allowed workers to start participating in profit-sharing and has upgraded with what has in practice proved to be shortcomings that have made it impossible for more than 24 companies to go into this scheme. Therefore, the proposal put forward by the Ministry has been so promising and in this particular area of reducing the process itself, simplifying the procedure, very large and good tax relief and deferral of payment has been a good journey for this law to be unanimously adopted - probably. However, the article, which has been amended, is good at that part as advocates advocated, but can also be very bad at that part as seen by opponents of compulsory participation. It is sad that many answers to one or the other will never be found out, because the article has not been processed as it should be - professionally, and where the positive and negative consequences in various areas, economic, legal, and now we will only guess what would be better. Perhaps today, too, the debate is very close that we will continue or hear them with some populist performances, as if the former Minister of Economy asked this government why it did not take and take measures that would and would make it impossible to pay in enterprises where the state is the majority owner. Probably the counter-response: why the government, which had been in the previous term and which had witnessed huge profits and probably watched companies drain themselves, how profits had been channelled not into new markets, but were spilled and used mostly for ownership consolidation, why it had not already reacted in such a way or otherwise, by such or other law. Therefore, these discussions are unnecessary, even non-productive. Above all, there is a great danger that today's debate will lead to a new division that is very easy to see. Thus, for some who are in favour of allowing workers to profit, it is said that those who are for workers are in favour of participation of workers in the division of profits, and for those who are only on the side of capital. I think that such a message and such a conclusion would be the worst, so we also repeat that in the Group of Members we really very clearly and very loudly support the participation of workers in profits and that in this amended Article we can only see the danger of some false promise to workers that they will be involved in the profits and that this profit may not be or is very likely not to be. The figures on profit are alarming, and I am sure that everyone knows them and that from 3.4 billion in 2007 to 549 million in 2009 it points to a dizzying and steep decline in these profits and that, given the crisis, the question is indeed what will be shared. The question is also how the owners will adapt to this requirement to determine the mandatory division of this 25%, how they will exploit all the options that they are. This question will remain unanswered. However, it would be an answer if such a law as the Ministry has drawn up, left and adopted on a voluntary basis and, after one year with arguments, could be said that these simplifications, including those tax reliefs, did not help to involve more companies in this scheme. That is why we do not have any information on how the financial ministry will react. According to data, this voluntary model was considered in government, and today the finance minister is likely to be different in his accounts and is calculating what such a change in this law and the possibility of a lower tax on profits and, consequently, a lower inflow into the state budget. All these dilemmas remain open due to the possibility of this haste, and this great desire of some who have been really striving for this compulsory participation of workers in profit for several years, and they may have been a little hasty in this sting with this way of amending Article 3. Even more so, I think it is inappropriate in these discussions to listen to a somewhat underestimating or inappropriate attitude, for example, of foreign investors, who are just waiting for today's decision. I am sure that they are very well aware of the developments in Slovenia and that they have probably adopted with some optimism a law on the faster development of Pomurje and that there is probably a desire on the one hand to attract foreign investors, and on the other hand a provision on the mandatory participation of workers, which means somehow immediately some signal that there is a need to share profits here. I think that regardless of how this law is going to apply today, I am convinced that the law will be adopted, because personally I will not oppose the adoption of this law, despite the provision of Article 3, that the preparation of amendments to the legislation governing the field and the work will continue to be a cost of labour, but that they will come as soon as possible into the category of human capital and that all forms of economic democracy will create conditions where workers will want to co-create, want to cooperate, be active, and this is probably also a basic condition for the knowledge society of workers who have the skills to cooperate, who also want to invest in the development of their company in this way. I am convinced that this must continue until the final promotion and formation of labour stock, although regrettably, a lot of water has leaked, much of the profits have gone away elsewhere, not to where it is needed. That is why I personally regret that the law is not as it was originally prepared, but I support the fact that workers will be involved in the distribution of profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you. On behalf of the party and on behalf of my own, I estimate that if this debate is - not least, because we are also paid to be here - that it is useful. My colleague gave me a great point. Sometimes, now we leave the political or economic system, we talk and we learn at school that we have the production force first, that's the worker, and then the production assets and the objects of work. The key difference between the economic system at the time and now is that this first element has disappeared. He's not here. Production forces. We have the means of production, the objects of work, and the power of production has become a cost. It's one big mistake, a system that has its roots, for over 400 years from Britain, elsewhere. But we will not reverse the history of economic systems. However, when we talk today and especially about this Article, we need to draw from the basic point of view: a worker in the country of the Republic of Slovenia for his efforts and for his work, where good business results have been achieved, is not properly paid. It's not paid properly. Now we have two options: either with the law, as we already have and again demand, I give a hypothetical number that a worker in this country must have, according to all the other results, 700 euros of minimum wages, or we are solving this manna that is, through this way, we are talking about today. So that the worker at his minimum wage, which is actually minimal for his work and his work, should be rewarded with a share in the profits. However, if we are talking about compulsory or, if we are talking about voluntary participation in profits, the employer, you know, because we are talking about a balance sheet profit, he can do whatever he wants. Even in the case of the mandatory, which is just a little more than voluntary participation, as we have already heard, the owner of the balance sheet profit will be able to hide. Of course he can hide it, he can make a loss if he wants, on paper. That way, in any case, it will be up to the one who decides the fate of profit or loss, depending on what happens. Well, we can't just raise wages to the workers because of this, because then we would really get to the economic downturn; but here we give at least one chance to improve the position of the worker wherever possible. Of course, some injustices have also been done, but I am sure that any man who will see an opportunity to improve his life and his financial situation will make an effort to do so. I'm sure of that. Everyone wants it, and what Comrade Visjak said before is true. You really need to think first about how to make a profit, then share it. But that's now the question of how we teach kids and ask them what happened before, chicken or egg. There's somewhere to start. I think it is also right for us to start with this law and with all the other accompanying laws so that the spiral begins to rise. If we respect this law, of course, if those companies that make profits, some of them, shared this profit among workers, workers would work with much greater enthusiasm, which means that productivity would be greater and, of course, more and more, and that would also create more and more cooperatives than these cooperatives and, of course, achieve what colleague Vizjak said to start making profits and then share it with pleasure. So I think it is right to adopt this law, and it is right that this division of profits is compulsory. We already know from experience, for two years there was a voluntary opportunity for workers to participate in profit, and it turned out to be barren. If it is mandatory, it depends, of course, again on how the balance sheet profit will be displayed, but it will be mandatory, at least one result will be more. As far as the calculations are concerned as my colleague has said before me: that the government has calculated on its model and that we now do not know how it will be - it is not good because it says that under the assumption that all companies would opt for the participation of workers in profit, the available data estimates the financial participation of workers in profits of EUR 811 million, which is approximately 9% of the profit shown for this year. So we also have this calculation. If everyone who was obliged to make a profit gave workers the opportunity to participate in profit, that would be 811 million or 9.4%. And lastly, I will say again, it is true that in one case there will be a reduction in tax revenues, and in the other case there will be an increase in public financial revenues directly from the supplementary income of workers. And if we measure satisfaction, it will be much greater where the worker's additional income, even if he pays more taxes, and the additional encouragement and joy of the employer, because he will also have tax relief for the part of the reward that he will give to the worker. I am sure that this tax relief will be more favourable for the employer, i.e. greater than the "cost" in the quotations that will arise with the share that the employer will give to the employer for participation. It's a good thing we're talking about this. I think we'll be united and we'll support this marriage. As has already been said, it will be of the will of the employers to draw the balance sheets and show them to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u48	I'll call you next time. A brief comment on the current debate, which has in its own way been extremely useful. As it is said, it has proven to be someone in Parliament, in the government. This point will show the differences in our opinion, not least to the people we always put first; finally, we are representatives of the people. But this people -- they're getting more and more, they're getting a minimum wage. This debate has also shown how much more we are burdened with various dogmas, prejudices and how quickly we share labels. In the forums, there are already "against socialists", "co-ordination", "self-governance", "where it will come". As you know, I don't have this category alone, if you want, with a socialism label, no problem, because the party I preside over has the name "socialism". But if social justice is what's at stake, then I'd rather be a socialist. I know that we will never achieve this goal, social justice. Can't be measured, can't be calculated, can't be determined. But the goal should remain. And there's another dogma. Companies will only be well and successfully run by owners, as if work is not an attribute of ownership! Work is not just physical effort, work is an intellectual investment: knowledge, skill, skills. All of this contributes significantly to the outcome. And therefore the product of work is the property of all, all those who created it. A big leap in the head will be needed; also a leap in our name of work and what we create together. The problem with dogs is not about the dogma of socialism, but especially today's dogma of capitalism that have collapsed. One extremely dangerous dogma is: "It doesn't matter who makes the profit, it is important that it is as many as possible. You socialists would just share, and we owners create." Isn't the worker the one who's co-created? Motivated worker, worker who also feels positive consequences, not only negative in his efforts. Did this financial crisis and the financial pyramid happen to the owners of large banks to destroy their assets? No! No! That would be against the legal system. Of course, capital-political elites have made such a system that their privileges have been legalized and then we hear from Mr. Mrkaić: "Yes, that would be illegal." What we are offering today also means that workers are stealing profits from owners that they have created; as we say, work counts nothing. And if we don't make this move, if we don't abandon the old dogma, if we don't overlook that the problem is not socialism, the problem is capitalism and its dogma, which rule us today, until we know it, we will also find it difficult to accept this modest contribution to justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u49	Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u50	The core of today's debate is the question of what kind of economy we want. And we social Democrats are united that we do not want such an economy, which will only work and generate profits on the stings of our people, to take profits to some unknown place abroad, and in Slovenia there will remain few guarantees to create a society of prosperity and social and connected communities. I think that in this House we are particularly united to see the perspective of the Slovenian national economy in that it must be a highly technological, high-value economy and what, if only people's knowledge and creativity is a marriage to achieve this goal. Only in this way will we be able to talk about a society of prosperity in this country, only in this way will we be able to provide our people with a better and fairer pay for their hard work. I don't see fear as a motivator, as a key motivation to invite people to do good, self-sacrifice and create for our common good. On the contrary, I see this motivation in security, in prosperity, in a connected community that will be able to be encouraging, that each of us will encourage us to be in the best interests of this community, and in that we will build, in our own well-being and well-being of our families, indirectly, the welfare of the community in a way that we will make our best contribution to it in knowledge, in our work, in our experience and in all that we can give, firstly, in order to provide ourselves with one open social perspective, but also in order to build one social and related community directly with this contribution. I do not agree that the only alternative to capitalism is what we unfortunately also have the opportunity to see in Slovenia in recent decades. I take even less good examples than Mr Kres presented, and I hope that he was convicted here that the Chilean dictator Pinochet sent young people to the best schools - that the process was different, that the Chicha School of Milton Freedman, in cooperation with the secret services, first trained young Chilans into the irreprehensible neoliberal economists, then carried out a coup, killed the democratically elected Salvador Alliende, who was building a democratic and socially connected society of high social rights in Chile, established a regime of military junta, killed thousands and thousands of people and disrupted what the socialists tried to create as an example of a social state in Latin America, which is why Chile has a very poor view of today's Slovenia. And our response to the crisis, as the Social Democrats wrote in one of their political manifesto, is a just society! Not that we will first trim what we are giving to people today in order to be more competitive and that we will only be able to achieve a more just society when we are more competitive. I see this way a little differently. I think that we must first build a just society, first provide people with more security, more prosperity and that this will actually be what will generate, that each of us will give the best of this community what we can do. First of all, to ensure its social perspective, its social security, but indirectly, because this is the only way for all of us, all of us, to be better off in our community tomorrow. The compulsory distribution of profits in its essence therefore speaks of how we will create. Not about how we're going to share. Because it's that fundamental motivational element. Because we all have to admit together that there is no longer an economic sector in society of the 21st century that would be interesting for our community, which is dependent on capital alone. No, no, no. The economy that we see in our vision, which is fueled by knowledge, creativity, on good ideas that can achieve high added value, those ideas depend on people, on our people who create these ideas, they elevate them into new products and into new services. It is therefore right that our people, who participate in this creative process in various ways, should be rewarded accordingly. And as Bojan Kontič said earlier for Slovenian media and I think this is the fundamental point of our acquisition: we do not want investors who will only milk Slovenia and exploit a Slovenian worker with a poorly paid job, but we want investors who will come to this country to offer our people a job, but at the expense of this work that Slovenia will do for them, to invest in this community. And that is why I am alone among those who strongly oppose the various ideas of reckless privatisation of state property and see in the processes that we have already discussed in this National Assembly, at the head of the new capital investment management system of the country one perspective and the opportunity to prove that the country can be a good owner of businesses. The SDS amendment would therefore limit this option only to state-owned enterprises, while Mr Vizjak has explained this for a long time and widely, and from what we will be charging the state budget if we adopt this law, if not from corporate dividends. I think we need a lot of investment in this country first. A lot of investment first! And the solution, as we are applying to our proposals in this law, provides companies with the opportunity not to share profits, to make reserves, to reinvest this profit in order to expand their business in order to win new markets in order to win new products and services. In this case, this compulsory profit sharing is not compulsory because it is not available. Europe needs a new socio-economic model, one of the proponents and advocates of the solution, which is common to us, said this beautifully earlier. I think that this is at the heart of the moment at which Europe is at stake, also because of the assistance the European Union is providing to Greece today, in the fear that the collapse of Greece would affect the collapse of our common currency, and thus a substantial deterioration of our common economic opportunities. Regardless of the interesting theories of conspiracy, which do not leave me cold about who brought Greece down, however, it is possible to draw something out of this that the doctrine of the European Union is exactly its connection and that it can be successful only if it is strong and connected and united. In this respect, I would like to welcome the efforts that lead to this goal of standing on our own feet, not comparing our competitiveness with that of someone on the other side of the world working for a handful of rice, but that we will build our economic performance and perspective and consequently a socially connected community on giving our people more security and more prosperity. And that, as I understand it, is the intention of this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the debate on Article 3. Would you like to discuss it again? I'll give you time to report. But I would be very grateful if you would concentrate more on Article 3 and the amendments for some knowledge, because now the content is much different. Please report to anyone who wants to discuss. Mr Andrej Vizjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u52	Thank you very much. It is possible to draw two out of the debate: despite the fact that there are more or less populism provisions to bring about the actual division of profits for employees, this is unlikely to happen. It won't happen for more reasons. The first reason is because there is simply no profit or very little profit. The second reason is that even where there is profit, managers will certainly find circuits, surely they will find ways to get the balance sheet to such a level that they will earn little or nothing. Many options are how to do different tricks, if management and owners, of course, decide to do so, to make profits lower than they actually are. All these frauds will occur if the solutions affecting profits are inconsistent with employers or those who are ultimately the most responsible for companies. There was also little consideration that companies would probably start setting up some of their "biypasses" to raise costs through various advisory, legal and other contracts and thus reduce profits. None of you, Your Honor, on the proposaler's side has also served me with a concrete calculation of how much the state treasury will be more empty due to this measure. For example, how much less will state companies that will pay off their profits contribute to the state treasury? So far, the dividends have been those that have significantly balanced the state budget. [[The ad in the hall.]] So, so. I ask you, is this solution in line with the Minister of Finance - if he is not already with the employers? In those days, the Minister of Finance was in Brussels, where he dealt with the European Commission's actions, how to reduce the deficit and stabilise public finances. At home, however, you take measures to deepen the deficit in the state treasury. He'll be deepened on two levels. For the first time, it will be deepened because employers will avoid and find circuits to ensure that there will be no profits or that there will be fewer. This is said to have made less profits because of this category itself. Secondly, the country will be part of the profits it has made so far. In fact, you are here to spend certain populist measures on people who are not actually going to get them. This is one of the things I want to say on this amendment. We are talking about Article 3 where they have legislated the compulsory division of profits, which is why this is also related to the subject and the amendments to Article 3. I would suggest to Mr Kontic, who is the author and looks forward to his paintings on the front pages when he suggests that he should also suggest that profit must be compulsory, why not write another law, that profit must be compulsory, and if it is not, we must ban loss, and that must be done. It would be best if there were a loss, but we have to pay for certain items or services so that there will be no loss and there will be profits. I think it's still a compliment to these in your actions, I think it would be quite the right thing to do. So, respectable, companies will find circuits for these measures, which are unnatural, which are foreign to European economies, even in practice, unfortunately. France is the only country in the 27 EU that has it. No, it's not two, Slovenia doesn't have it yet, and I hope it doesn't. So this is an interesting view of the resolution of the Slovenian economy from the crisis. To emphasise and legitimize divisions, not to stress and not to prioritize how to create, how to create in this country and how to encourage - the economy creates them. All your actions are going, unfortunately, in the opposite direction. Companies will find ways, I think, to avoid it and it will cost them dearly, at least they will have those for whom you so declare themselves to be employed; they will have at least that. It will be very interesting to look at the implementation of this law in practice and also to monitor state indicators when they talk about tax revenue from corporate income tax. That is why I believe that the most unfair of this law is to those small and medium-sized enterprises and d.o.o. that have, for decades, strengthened the way that they are today employing one, two, three, five people, because they will also have to share it later, and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party limits at least this division that these family companies are, so to speak, all those in which the state does not own are exempt. And there's one more thing. Foreign companies are already making all the profits from Slovenia, now they will enjoy it even more through various invoices about, I don't know, controlling the group, I don't know, single marketing, single branding, single development. With these invoices they will collect all the profits from Slovenia and it will be even less and there will be even less taxes from this title. I do not know whether the author and creator of this amendment is, in addition to not harmonising it with anyone, not with the Government, not with individual ministries, not with social partners - so how he examined all these aspects of the consequences of this law. I think he was only doing one thing here, which is that he's going to be on some headlines in the media, that people are going to say, and then we can hope for some profit. And it's gonna hurt! It will hurt those employed in companies that are in production that are entangled in international markets competing with severe international competition, especially in the field of production, which are fighting a difficult battle in this global economic market and can only dream of profit. When you're watched by Telekom and Telekom's employees who will probably be able to share profits because they'll have profits - some say because they have a monopoly and they're some state-owned company - when, I don't know, bank workers share profits. Those manufacturing workers who sit over the fence and don't have this profit work hard, but they can wipe themselves under their noses for it. So the kind of gap is in these solutions, and this is a kind of unfair and kind of dangerous consequence. I do not know whether the applicants have overlooked this or whether they have assessed all these concerns as irrelevant to this piarian objective that they are pursuing.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u53	Mr. Bojan Kontic has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u54	I don't know if it's worth it, Mr. Visac, but it's because you mentioned my name carelessly. First of all, I would very much like to ask for a magnetogram to prescribe compulsory profit-making is the stupidity that Mr Vizjak has expressed and has nothing to do with me because my name has been mentioned in this connection. Write this stupid thing down on your own. About the pain, about the pirates. Look, the pain is immeasurable with you, looks like. You can see that from your performances. The pain is that you have drafted a law in the past mandate that has not produced any results and is being amended today. Of course, it's hard to look at these achievements with a smile on your face. And I'll tell you again when you say that the profit will be hidden, that it will be sunk, that it will be used in a different way. What it calls for is that at least work requires an obligation, because that means that if it is voluntary, there will be no profit. It won't have to be hidden, it'll be divided between the two, not among the employees. In this case, they will have to give it to employees in a certain percentage or hide it, as you say. But you always find a way to argue how bad something is. Regarding coherence - we have already cleared this up - with the social partners; for not being in line with you before, I sincerely apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Silva Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that today this debate is smoothly intense and so substantive, rare and to the delight of many. Somehow one would say, "Do you remember, comrades past times?" Not only the periods of the last 20 years of our country, but also the periods of success of some of our giants, such as Lek, because some of my predecessors have said, but also Litostro, including Krka, not least of all others, especially Sparks, how sadly they have fallen into the agony of decay, as is the case with domination. Some have said how important it is to find a titler, because without a titler, it is impossible to create, create. We have seen that once paraded horses, not only were powerful horses in Slovenia, strong in the former Yugoslavia, strong in Europe and in the world, known for which Slovenia celebrated and whose name meant real knowledge of education, about research, about good staff, about the quality of the personnel that, if they knew, good great multinationals also had one way to obtain. That's interesting. We have found that in fact all the smart men who were so analytically speaking how important it is to have a titler, because, of course, social and state property cannot be a competitor without knowing what and to whom, but were surprised and then suddenly, overnight, there, when everything went down, they found out how they did not know that capital could hit so violently. And these are from the end of the 18th and 19th centuries -- the ones we told them were the founders of the theory of capital from Engels and Marks -- they said. And some of the laws still apply today, I think, regardless of whether we have globalisation and we are in the 21st century. However, the one who has worked hard and in one way created new values, new businesses, educated workers and shared with them in one way every day knows how important it is to invest in human resources and knows how important it is that everyone who works must also be well rewarded and motivated in one way and must be aware of success. For example, the success of this company and, last but not least, it must participate in such a remarkable and important profit. What's profit? Profit is actually the fertilization of a work that allows these same workers, owners and operators to continue working, to create a better product, which is, of course, the goal of all of us. There is no model, there is no model of the most successful economy, there is no model that we can transport from either this country or that country. France is a good example of how they have evolved into what it means to participate in profit and what it means to take a worker into account as an equal partner in social dialogue. There has not been any significant progress at this time in this act of social dialogue. I think it's the first step to make a share in compulsory participation. I hope and believe that people will find out how really important it is, when to come up with a compromise solution. I think that this, present one offered by Social Democracy is good and will also show its long-term positive effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Only Bevk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. I think that this is a major achievement of the proposed amendments to Article 3 of the Law on the participation of workers in profits, so that, of course, employers are actually obliged to share profits with employees. This was not a practice now, for it was not legal. From now on, I hope that the law will be adopted. Yesterday, one of the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party informed us that we are running a right-wing social policy, under the law, where we provided an additional 122 000 pupils and primary school students with free or subsidised school lunch and a fairer and fairer arrangement for subsidisation of students' lunches in secondary schools. Thus, this law, which we discussed yesterday, and I hope that we will also adopt it tomorrow, will allow 90,000 primary and secondary school students free lunch, and all the other 194 000 pupils and students at least two thirds of the school lunch price. Today, the Slovenian Democratic Party opposes the legal solution that workers must be part of the profits. Even more! Today, one of the former or former ministers of the Janša government hopes that Slovenia will not join France, which is the only country of the European Union with a legally binding share of profits among workers. Really strange from the former government, which had full rights on its mouth, but very little in practice. I will support the amendment to the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in profits, the amendment to Article 3 of this Act, proposed by Bojan Kontič and Joško Godec, as adopted by the Committee on the Economy, which stipulates that if a society assembly decides to divide more than 25% of the profit on the balance sheet, part of the profit earmarked for distribution must be made compulsory for workers. And it continues to say this amendment: The part of the balance sheet profit that is shared with workers in this case must not be less than 25% of the total balance sheet profit earmarked for distribution to all employees in the company. I think that this is a great advance and we can say that our government, our parliamentary group, is leading a very responsible social and economic policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u60	Dear Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. I will not support the amendments of the SDS. I'll support the SD amendment. I am surprised that some of the SDS colleagues are just glowing about how they could show that everything is bad right now, and they probably want to. I don't know, I'm surprised! But I'm saying it's not true. We also have good, excellent and top-notch companies in Slovenia. There are many debates today, many views - that is also good. But I will respond to some of the debates and, above all, to how it is with companies, especially foreigners. You know what it's like with foreign companies? Of course they are welcome in Slovenia, they are also welcome in this pomura law and so on, but making 25% of the profits abroad is something special. They call it almost an extra profit. So, it is usually a few percent to make a profit, and it is normal that in Slovenia today we want more than 25% to share among workers. Now I am going on a concrete case to make it clear that this is the right way. If we have a company that has more than 25% of the profits, of course, the Supervisory Board has a decision on whether this profit is divided between employees or also modernised, it specialises this company. For example, one of the companies, in Slovenia we already have some, so super-modern, so specialised that it is no longer possible to upgrade specialization and modernisation. But he's still making 50% of his profits. Is it logical, then, to divide these 25% among the workers? Of course it makes sense! We also have such excellent companies in Slovenia. At this point, however, we have colleagues on the right hand side and media like that who say that we don't have it at all and that everything is bad. That's not true. We also have great companies in Slovenia, and at the moment it is to see that the economy is slowly waking up, we have more and more work to do. I think we're going in the right direction, which is why I'm going to back this up.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am grateful to the opposition, especially the SDS, for this debate. For the distinction between those who advocate the meaning of the work, and those who do not see it, is now more clear. Let us not forget that it is on the SDS's side that there are ongoing accusations, czech, the transition left is actually the one that advocates the interests of capital, new capitalism, tycoonism and so on. Right, because the phenomenon of tycoonism is part of this transition process, which has been going on for 19 years and has unfortunately developed a relationship to work that is similar to that of Slovenia to the Balkans: czech, everything related to the evaluation of work and the smell of social approach, after the recognition of labour rights, even in the management of business, of course, it is immediately branded as inappropriate as ideologically impossible and so on. Today we have even heard the praises of a fellow Member of the school of Chicago and not of the liberalism developed in Latin America by Milton Friedman. But let's not forget that that neoliberal model has led not only to social but to social, human disasters and right, which is why new models are emerging on the green continent, which are also reintegrating what we expect: the participation of workers and workers in the management of businesses. With this law and this amendment, we will not ban capitalism, but we will not end it, we will not abolish private property, we will not stop entrepreneurship, we will upgrade it, we will add added value to entrepreneurship, which is called stimulating workers in better corporate governance. And they know this model in Europe, they know it well in the developed capitalist Europe, and they can also value it well, from France to Spain to Finland. In France, with a law very similar to our law if it is adopted, and I believe that after this debate there will be more votes "yes" than was envisaged before the debate; with a law which essentially allows the worker to take the first step towards co-ordination but to co-operate in terms of co-responsibility for the fate of his own company. As the worker participates in profit, the worker is also involved in greater responsibility, it is aware that this profit does not come from itself, that this profit needs to be created, and this is what will also help capital, including the employer to improve the development and better management of its own company. They know these models. I keep repeating, and I will repeat today, the experience of Mondragon in Baska, which is comparable to such a psychological, social, geographically comparable Slovenia, and where companies have connected, made it possible for the company to participate, allowing it to co-operate, and also relations are no longer rigid and traditionally unionist, because the worker gradually becomes a co-owner, becomes a co-owner of the company because it is able to share, enables it to co-ownership, and thus also participates in the co-management of the company. Nobody loses, everybody wins. These models should be carefully studied, not afraid of them, because they associate us in self-government times. Not everything was bad in self-governance. What prevented self-management was the ideology of that system and the undemocratic approach of that system. If we could also properly reform self-government and bring it closer to developed capitalism, that was, of course, before different scenarios, and I hope to say, before better scenarios. Where are we now? After 19 years of wild capitalism - and thank God that Slovenia has kept some social shock absorbers and some social security guards, but in 19 years we have a worker who receives 400 or 500 euros a month. Under such conditions, it is a shame that workers who receive 500 euros a month work in companies where administrations and shareholders share profits, rewards, high redundancies, while the worker who is an integral part of the creation does not, of course, receive these rights. This is unacceptable and we need to stop here and take a small step back as necessary. Re-exploiting that social, solidarity sense that we had and we understood it well when we lived in self-governance and then quickly shattered it in the name of new saints and in the name of some capitalism that has become a god that has become a dogma. Well, today, with new approaches, new laws can modernise this capitalism in terms of greater social participation and greater work evaluation. I think it is an opportunity that we have, and I believe that this law does not solve all the problems, and operationally probably in these times of crisis it is not a lifesaver, it is not a magic wand that we will actually offer all the rights to workers. Absolutely not. I see this law only as a first step towards a new approach, where we will combine healthy, innovative, creative capitalism, without creative accounting with a social component, social responsibility, social entrepreneurship, but we can do this if the worker is consciously involved in the responsibility of his own company. Before that, I mentioned another package that we're going to face briefly and maybe face. This is that package on social shock absorbers in the flexibility of the labour market. There we need to be very careful that it does not turn out that what we accept today is just a candy bar, just a candy bar to please only employers at the next step. I believe and agree with those who say that there is a need for social dialogue, that employers also need to be taken into account and equally involved in this social dialogue, but this is not an arbitrary alienation of private property. Profit is created on the basis of participation of all - both employers and their assets, technologies and, in particular, workers' works. So it's not about alienating one part of the capital, but it's about distributing one relatively small fraction of the profit. So this amendment improves the law, and I believe, as I said before, that this particular debate was symptomatic. Okay, I think the public knows what the right hand is and what the left is and what is also a social, liberal option, which is not necessarily on the side of wild capitalism, but understands that good and developed capitalism without social participation in employment cannot be. Let us therefore be bold, rather inspired by those social and economic models that are closer to us - mentalally, psychologically. I think that France, although the only country that has a compulsory share of profits in its legislation, is a good example. And I still think that France is one of the key pillars of the European Union and its economy. So I have no dilemma whatsoever to support such a law, to support it with this supplement. I believe that workers will not immediately applaud us, they will wait for the results, but this is actually a signal, it is a message that they are now given greater respect and greater responsibility. This is the right direction, this is the right signal in these times. The excuse that we are in crisis, we don't need it right now, is not a good excuse. We're late. In fact, we came to such a marriage too late, but certainly not too quickly and better late than never. I repeat this: I will certainly defend and also support the law with the attached amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u64	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. So, the relationship between how to share what was created, on the one hand through capital injections and on the other hand those who create new value through knowledge, through their work, has always been the subject of very broad debates throughout the history of the development of human society. This is, of course, also the issue of Slovenian society. I myself believe that we have not found the best solutions to this issue in Slovenian legislation. That we have not found the best solutions, data show that the legislative proposals that have so far regulated this area speak of the profits that have been created, but when we talk about risks, of course we are talking about risks in both directions, but today we are talking about how to share what has been created. So far, Slovenian legislation has regulated this area by encouraging a very modest number of businesses, and it is right to repeat this several times today. Only 24 companies in Slovenia were involved in the sharing of profits among employees, with a participation of 0.29% of all employees, and only 0.18 per cent of total profits were distributed among them. I therefore, of course, welcome the changes in the legislation that are going in the direction of tax evasion. Of course, employers will be interested in sharing what is created with those without whom it would not be created, this is with those who are employed. So we are talking about human resources, which I consider to be one of the largest and most important capital in Slovenia, so that we can ensure the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. This is why, of course, today, it is also very important when we talk about whether we have created an appropriate climate with all the mechanisms so far for sharing to be done fairly, so that we can build a Slovenian society at a tolerant level without conflicts, without social dispersion and without anomalies that we need to talk about in Slovenia in recent years; this is so-called Taiwanisation. So that we came to the stage of the development of Slovenian society in a way that we are talking about tycunization as something bad, as a way of dissolving Slovenian society, which of course was not good. Surely we have also contributed to this by those who have adopted Slovenian legislation, that we have not been paying attention to all those arrangements in order to avoid these anomalies. The motive must be set up for both employees and those who invest their capital to do so and to take care together to create as much added value as possible, to create as many values as possible in order to be able to talk about whether or not we will share something and how this division will happen. Of course, today we need to hear warnings that the changes that would go in the direction of being a witness to sound accounting, how to avoid showing profits, how to create circuits in companies, in order to show less profits, and, of course, the budgetary and public financial consequences when we talk about what one or the other solution will mean. But this raises the question whether we have set up all the mechanisms by the development of Slovenian society so that some deviations do not occur without some bad practices. Because I am sure that there is so much debate about how we will share profits, especially in finding that in some very narrow circle there is a lot of sharing, whereas among the crowds of people who co-create, we have not actually set up mechanisms to, say, live properly and satisfactorily. I am talking about how we built the pay system to create this dissatisfaction with people who have actually been modestly rewarded for their work. I am sure that if we had a pay system in a way that would provide a significantly greater satisfaction for employees when they create new values, that even in a dilemma, how to create conditions for the sharing of profits would be closer to those solutions proposed by the Government. Therefore, allow voluntary decision-making to economic operators to decide how they will share their profits. But I believe that at this stage in Slovenian society we have not gone in this direction and that, therefore, the decisions and proposed marriage solutions, which go in order to establish a combined solution between the degree of volunteerism and commitment, are acceptable to me. So, for me, it is acceptable in this sense that there is a greater participation of employed people in relation to invested capital, that they are co-responsible, those who create these results of work - and that, of course, participation. When we talk about that being even less - can we fall even lower? Can we still fall under 24 companies? Can we still fall under the fact that we're only going to share 0.18 proms of total profit? The warnings of economic operators going in this direction are very important. But can we go any lower? Is there any alternative to the answer to those who are telling us about these warnings? When I think about these relationships and when I realize for myself that the year that has passed was actually a split of profit actually the element when we're even going to ask ourselves if there's going to be anything to share. And when we weigh these decisions here today, it is a compromise decision for me to make if profit is created and if division is over 25%, that part should also be devoted to employees. Of course, for the purpose of shared responsibility, so that there will be more of this profit tomorrow and that these divisions can also be more. Of course, with a clear awareness of the development of human resources and investment in the development model, so that we will be here in Slovenia - and I myself in the National Assembly have always advocated that you are citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, that is, citizens and citizens want jobs based on knowledge and quality jobs. I believe that one such measure is going in this direction of participation and increasing the liability of employees so that they can participate in profits. That is why I support the law, which goes in the direction of tax relief, which relieves what has been poorly thought out in the past law, because we are introducing more favourable tax treatments, while at the same time, of course, I will support the decision to define part of employee participation in profit in the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First, regardless of whether I vote in favour of the Social Democrats and DeSUS amendments and vote against the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 3, I would like to say that this amendment, which has been adopted on the Committee and which introduces over the level of 25% of the divided profits as a compulsory division, amounts to up to 25% of the distributed profits voluntarily and compulsoryly, introduces a different view of what the role of living work is, whether mentally or physically, in relation to the capital invested, one way or another, in an economic society. The fact is that we will finally come to a significant shift in understanding the role of work in the economy - that it is equivalent to capital invested because without living work, such or otherwise, capital would do nothing. This is dead money, dead matter, which, by itself, is not yet capable of creating added value. Here is the essence of this law, which offers another option. In fact, when we said that if the Assembly decided to split 25% of the profits, it was a voluntary decision whether to share the profits with workers, and over 25% of the profits distributed had to be shared with workers. This means that there is also the possibility of whether this apparent high willingness of employers, an economy, to share fate with workers even in the part where there is a voluntary share of profits. If that happens, then I take the word back and say that it is not necessary to have a compulsory profit-sharing, because most companies with profits have decided to voluntarily share profits already in the corporation 25% of profits. Great! But until this autumn, when the possibility of sharing 25% of the balance sheet profit with workers is given, of course, I will not believe that until then, because there is no will to do so in the past experience. I just want to say the following, by the way. We do not accept this law, like any other law, except the law on the budget, for the division of profits made in 2009 and 2010. This is the law that will last. Thus, it is completely irrelevant what the profit was in the past year, what will be the profit this year, what will be the profit in 2011. If there's nothing to gain now, it's no big deal. We are adopting the law for a period that is not time-limited, and when there is profit, it will show how many employers, owners are actually prepared with workers who co-create the profits of these companies, to share fate and profit. In fact, one who thinks that workers can be paid with a 13th salary or with some ratings during the summer on the payroll - this is the larifari. Why? Because the pay-sharing is not the same as the profit-sharing. The pay split means that, just as amortization is paid for machines, you pay the worker his hard work. While the division of profits means that you understood that the worker's work, the intellectual and physical work invested in the company, is part of what creates profit, is said to be equal to capital. In the end, I'd say the following. If such a law had been adopted in 2000 by compulsory sharing of profits with workers, then tycunisation in the form we have today would not have been. Because there would be no source from which these famous tycoons could buy shares in companies at the expense of profits made by workers as well. And last but not least, about investors waiting at the border to see what happens. I would like to point out that those who speak so much about these investors should remember Iskremetz and the Slovenian steel industry, what they have done "good" under the terms of this time since they were brought into our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mrs. Pechanova. We concluded the debate on Article 3. There are still suggestions. Anyone besides Mr. Puksich? Then I'll give you time to report. Who else wants to discuss Article 3? Mr. Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm sure we're right when we support this marriage. Today I read in Finance, "Cod and colleagues have paid 12 million Euro dividends from the profit account". Why? So they bought what they used to buy. Now look. On the other hand, today's story is happening again, I heard it from an employee in a company who says, "Let's take the extra 400 euros that I have. I am in favour of the company going bankrupt and going after the purely normal legalities that the economy dictates in this direction, but not to be resolved in a way that will save them, for example, Mercator, because in this case they will save these 12 million." They're sure of that. I think it is only right that we adopt this law and that we also settle these matters in the long run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I must say, as far as the amendment to Article 3 is concerned, that it is difficult for a person to make a decision. Above all, I would like to say what some are now trying to show as if the coalition were inconsistent. Far from it! We have in coalition all the same goal, we all want profit created, profit also paid, only the paths we see there are slightly different. In the Liberal Democracy, we agree and support the view that the number of companies that pay profits in Slovenia today is shamefully low, because if only 0.3% of all employees participate and we divide only 0.18% of all profits, then something is wrong. We want to make a stimulating tax environment, one that would stimulate businesses to make as much profits as possible and, on the other hand, as a fear and weakness of this system, we see that by mandatory profit sharing we are working an unstimulating environment that can, in particular, drive away any external investor who does not understand the specifics of our system. Above all, because they are aware that there are many possibilities for so-called creative accounting, that those who do not want to pay the profits will not be able to avoid it. We fear in part of the story that precisely because of these creative accounting tricks, public tax revenues may be even lower. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, Minister! In the Slovenian People's Party, we have already said that we will support the proposal of this profit-sharing law. But, you know, I think it's kind of funny, especially sad that we've been talking a lot today, for a few hours now, or this profit to share, how much, ever since and so on - on the one hand. On the other hand, the Minister of Finance and the President of the Government of Crying and Commodity say that there is no income to do a rebalancing. In short, the country is collapsing, we are already quite close to the Greek path. So where were you, colleagues and colleagues, 12 years ago, 14 years old, 15 years old, when you were in power and when some of you were alerted to the damage of social property, to the theft of social property, when we asked you here, in this House, where are those strong billions that this Parliament has taken to rescue. But you still remember the TAM factory, that was once. So many and so many thousands of employees in the TAM factory. Where did the money go? We also told you through the commission about damages to social property. We told you what was going on in Elan, and we demanded responsibility, but of course there was no responsibility for this theft of social property, unfortunately, there was no responsibility. Where did some individuals come from to create such terrible possessions? It was said that with capital injections on the one hand and on the other hand with human resources. I agree with the other one, with the human resources that we can share so much into, if you want the mental part and the other physical part, all of them are human resources. What about the capital injections? Where did those capital injections come from? From that part of pumping or exhausting businesses that should go to human resources, that is to say, to development, to better working conditions, to normal wages for workers all the time and so on. Do we remember 70 years ago when we had a gross domestic product, Slovenia then and Austria, about the same? Today we are lagging behind, I don't know, for three gross domestic product towards Austria. And in these 20 years of this turbo-capitalism, which was created without inputs, but at the expense of exhaustion, and of course the chosen elites, which even today are subject to a special status in this government, because they can, allow themselves, in short, do more through various legal services than they can and allow legislation. They even build some buildings, the country rents them, pays them, over a dozen million overpays them and, on the other hand, prepares a rebalancing; a rebalancing based on a reduction of investments, which is, of course, also a disaster for good companies that will fail, not create profits and will not share profits among workers. So today it is still the same coalition from which one would actually expect that in these times of crisis, however, it will be possible to put on a slightly different footing, perhaps more acutely, a clearer definition of the origin of these individuals' assets. And of course, those who do not show the origin of property by legal means are a crime. For such criminal acts, of course, law enforcement authorities and so on. No, more! This government coalition that talks so much about this division of profits today - and I said I agree. First of all, workers need to be given honest work and paid fair work so that they do not go to work on the edge of social survival. On the other hand, absolute human beings must have something and belonging also goes through the stomachs, even through what is created more and then split into workers. Otherwise, I don't know why he's going to split his profits among his employees until he's more than 25%. I don't understand. If one percent is shared, one percent should be shared among all, including the workers. Why not? I don't know where the Social Democrats and the Government have this restriction. But it is true that since you have been in power, except for those two years of Demos, from there you have not actually taken care of and have not developed a relationship to work and not a relationship to workers. You didn't! But you had a relationship with the turbocapitalists and a relationship to their capital, which you didn't even want to tax or want to know its origin, and you simply left through the judicial authorities. Do you still remember when we reached a decision on the commission of inquiry and instructed State Prosecutor Bricl to investigate why Judge Šubič did not write a judgment on the injury and theft of Elan within nine months? Do you know what the prosecutor at the time wrote in explanation that he did not do so to Interior Minister Shukley? To come to a slippery slope with this! Of course, where would you come from? Yeah, I'd come to the top of the game! Those who were mainly senior officials of the Communist Party of Slovenia are now mostly rich. They're all from this list of the richest Slovenians. Who's in charge now? Yeah, nobody! And then you talk about some responsibility to the government, I don't know, to adopt legislation, etc. Listen up! No, unfortunately, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. There was a mistake. You know, a lot of words about sharing, about how you care about workers now, and I don't know what's on your mouth, but actions, of course, aren't. What are the actions of 100,000 unemployed people? What do you do when you take your students lunch? What you'll have on the streets today is the results of your work! It is a pity that such important matters do not lead to a comprehensive solution. One of these comprehensive solutions, or which would be part of this comprehensive solution, is tax legislation and the source of assets. Yeah, definitely! The ones who hurt the ones who stole it. Look, this is where the president of the government comes in, says he stands for the minister. Yeah, the next day at the press conference, he said what he was saying yesterday, or he stood for a minister who made a deal with some guy named Pogačar, but put it on the blacklist. What kind of morality is that? The president should have said, "You know what? I made a mistake, I apologize to the Slovenian people, and that is why I am going to draw the line." But none of this! That's why I'm talking about this responsibility. What is your responsibility? You accept something, of course on paper, so that one way or another you can lick each other, and on the other hand you do absolutely nothing for the good of Slovenian society. It is not normal to have so many people in the country today at the threshold of poverty, from pensioners who have been promised EUR 1000 "retirement" and do not see farmers pensioners or EUR 180, to the Minister for Finance, who promises at least EUR 1000 minimum wage, today, of course, they do not see even EUR 400, and they do not see it at a time and without paying social contributions, etc. What you have done in the area of not paying state-owned companies under the law of compulsory matters in pension [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u73	Mr. Puksic [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u74	The invalid cashier? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u75	Mr Pukšič, I agree, all of these are serious problems, but please, not all of them or most of them are unrelated to Article 3. [[...]] Let's focus a little bit. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u76	They are not related to profit and profit sharing! Of course, Mr Vice President, how they are connected! Because instead of making a profit before making a profit, we pay our obligations to the workers, then we split that profit among the workers, they steal it, before it gets there, they buy yachts, weekends, half of Croatia they have, I guess, your turbocapitalists bought it! That's why they want these agreements to become, I don't know what you want to do with Slovenia - the Dalmatian Croatia or what the hell! You're not gonna make it! For this law - well, I rarely agree, but this time I agree with you that profit needs to be divided, but I would split the profit in full if it were already split, not only from 25% up. But this is certainly not enough, so I'll say, just one grain of sugar to give to this poverty that it is today. Admit that there was something wrong, prepare something right so that we can support you. You can see that, even in this case, if there is only a trace of hope in the right direction, we support you. But unfortunately, only one thin thread isn't the solution. But it is true that I find it hard to believe that you will do so, because, as I said today, if you would convene a meeting of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Slovenia, all of these tycoons would come along.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. I conclude that we have concluded the debate on Article 3 and the amendments to Article 3. We are moving on to the debate on Article 19 or the amendment to Article 19 tabled by the Social Democrats and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? He won't. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 23 - including SD and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? No. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 24 and remind you that a correction has been made by 24th and that we will decide on the corrected text. Who wants to discuss the amendment to Article 24? He won't. I'm closing the debate. I am putting forward an amendment to Article 27. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. I conclude the debate on this article and at the same time by discussing the proposal for a law on the participation of workers in profits. We will vote on the amendments tomorrow, in the framework of the vote. I'm breaking this agenda. We're going to seven. Agenda items, this is on the defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Gradual Closure of the Ripper Mine and Developmental Prestructuring of the Region. The proposal was tabled by the Government. Complementary explanation will be given by Dr. Matej Lahovnik, Minister of Economy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr President, Members and Members. The current law on the gradual closure of coal mines sets a deadline for the completion of coal production, which is 31. 12. 2009 We have exceeded this deadline and have negotiated with the European Commission to extend this deadline through the Council Regulation of 23 July 2002 on State aid for coal, which will expire at the end of 2010. The European Commission has listened to our arguments, especially from this point of view, that it is a time of great economic crisis and that, in this regard, the resources, including the energy we have, must be used to the end and thus maintained employment. I must say that it is appropriate to correct changes to the law. The period is now extended in accordance with the provisions of that Regulation, which shall be extended until 31. 12. 2010 Until that day, we were given our consent. Negotiations with the European Commission are not yet concluded. We expect that due to the increased number of surplus workers who, with economically viable coal stocks, will be able to obtain a positive opinion on co-production when closing at least by the end of 2012. These negotiations will be under way. We're counting on a very good argument. The final decision is taken by the European Commission. The second amendment to the law concerns the dynamics of the necessary resources for the implementation of the annual programmes. In the first step, the financial burden will only be lifted in 2010 and by the end of this year, we will be working towards a decommissioning of the first three years of the third phase of the closure, or the start-up period of the 2010-2014 phase. The scope of the budget allows for the continuation and processing of coal in the Thermoelectric Trbovlje and thus for the realisation of income, covering more than half of the coal workers. Some comments were also made, and we must say that if we succeed in the proposal with the European Commission, the solution proposed in Article 1 of the deadline and in Article 2 of the allocation of funds is highly uneven. We are defending the proposed solution for a practical reason, because in a short period of time it does not repeat the process of amending the law. The new State aid scheme shall be implemented by publication in the Official Journal on the date of its approval. The proposal is based on a case that was carried out in another substantive area. Those who followed the matter in more detail will remember that it was a tax area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. Mr Matjaž Han, Chairman of the Committee, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The Committee on the Economy considered the proposal at its 23rd meeting, on 5 May. Meetings of the Committee were attended, as usual, by representatives of the proposed law, namely the Ministry of Economy, representatives of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Rudnik, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, as well as a representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia. None of the qualified applicants submitted amendments to the bill. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and of the explanations and additional explanations provided by the Ministry of the Economy for this opinion. It follows from the explanations that the Ministry does not agree with the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service. With the introductory explanation of the articles, the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Economy briefly summarized the main objective of the bill and its main solutions. She stressed that two key amendments to the current law were included in the proposed legislative text, namely an extension of the deadline for closing the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine for one year by the end of 2010, and the redeployment of the necessary funds for the implementation of the annual mine closure programmes. With regard to the extension of the mine closure deadline, two variants are envisaged, namely after the first envisaged extension after the end of 2010 and after the end of 2012. The latter option is still an uncertain fact, as discussions are still under way in the European Commission on amendments to or extensions of the coal regulation. Nevertheless, it seemed reasonable for the applicant to include this second option in the draft law, so that the current law would not change too often. Members of the Committee also supported the law in the context of the joint debate on all articles of the proposal. However, his concrete solutions were not discussed in more detail. The panellists stressed the need for the proposed law and that its adoption is an important step in solving the problem of the Sava region, which also wants to remain an important energy region in the future. In addition, they stressed that, as a fundamental reason for the adoption of the bill, we cannot change not only the social and cadre issues but also other important reasons. It is therefore necessary to mention the stocks of quality coal whose prolonged excavation will contribute to the security of Slovenia's energy supply and the reduction of energy dependence. They also cautioned that certain energy issues relating to the region must be addressed clearly before the amendment of the national energy programme; the question of the construction of a gas steam plant; the renovation of the fourth block of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje; and the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Central Sava. For it is high time that all necessary decisions are made as soon as possible. With regard to the introductory text of the proposal, it was also pointed out that it already mentioned the reasons for its adoption, but did not mention the environmental and economic sustainability of the energy facilities in question. The environmental aspect of the buildings under consideration, as well as other energy facilities, will be even more up-to-date in the future and should therefore be given more attention. At the conclusion of the debate, the Director-General of the Energy Directorate further explained to the members of the Committee the reasons for the adoption of the bill, particularly in the light of European Union law and the related ongoing and planned activities of the Government or the Ministry of Economy. In accordance with Rule 126 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all articles of the bill and also unanimously adopted them. Given that the Committee has not adopted any amendments to the draft law, the National Assembly proposes to adopt it in the form tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Melita Župevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposal for a new law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine. You might say, finally, the law that's been waiting for Zasavje has been in place for years. With it, we will extend the deadline for closing the mine and redistribute the restructuring funds. As has already been said, the closing period is extended by at least one year on the European Commission, and discussions are still ongoing to move this deadline to the end of 2012. The mine has sufficient coal reserves, which also contributes to the security of Slovenia's energy supply. The Group of Social Democrats has already supported the so-called "Saw Law" put into the parliamentary procedure by the members of the Zasav. Unfortunately, there was a single vote missing in Parliament at that time. And we could go even further into history, at least until the referendum on the fate of the thermoelectric Trbovlje, from which it has been more than eleven years. The Social Democrats, after rejecting the referendum, were aware that the region needed help and that it would not be able to solve the accumulated problems overnight. But, as we say, we're talking about the future today. There is a law before us that is of great importance to the Sava region. However, this is only one step. We'll all have to do something together for the suction energy. It is not just social, as some picorians have pointed out in the past mandate; it is a lot more; it is tradition, it is quality and skilled staff, it is a strategic position, it is an untapped potential. Zasavska energy is based on a long tradition, and it should also be stressed when adopting this law that this part of Slovenian energy must also find its place in the national energy programme, which is to be considered in this Parliament in the autumn. Until then, the government owes some more answers. What will happen to the fate or further development of other energy facilities? What are the country's plans for Savoy Energy and a chain of hydro power plants in the Central Sava? In recent months, all eyes were fixed on the sixth block of Thermal Power Plant Šostjanj, and some have forgotten that other energy facilities are important in Slovenia. Sewing energy deserves its future. "For a successful future, however, it is crucial to switch from pessimism to optimism, as development opportunities exist," said a senior representative of the country years ago. I hope that we will finally be aware of these development opportunities and opportunities and help Zasav to apply them. As we say, in the Group of Social Democrats, we express our support for the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Čadež will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal of this law is about extending the closure deadline of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, but we believe it is more humane and social in nature than it is economic. Given today's situation, the mine can operate until 2010, and the possibility of negotiations to extend its operation until 2012, should the European Commission give its consent. We note that this way many jobs are maintained and indirectly also provides raw materials for the Šostanj Termoelectrica. However, we wonder whether this is economical and whether the same contribution to another activity would result in better results. It is even more questionable how capable he is of holding up our budget. However, the Government should think in the long term and put forward proposals on the table for more promising economic activities today, given that a huge amount of resources have been used from the so-called Swiss law and we wonder whether they have achieved their goal. We will not oppose the proposal of this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister! The Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine provides that, at the same time as the phased closure of the mine, coal production for energy needs shall be completed by 31.12.2009 at the latest. The energy needs, the economic crisis, the social aspect of the phasing-in programme and the budget revenue shortfalls that are the source of the financing of the closing activities were, according to the proposers, the reason why the proposed extension of coal production beyond the originally foreseen deadline was proposed. The fundamental purpose of the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law is therefore to achieve a socially sustainable transition of surplus workers to other working environments, or also to discharge through passive forms of re-employment, such as pensions, due to the more difficult employment resulting from the specificity of the current work and the employment environment, which is characterised by the over-average unemployment rate relative to the country as a whole. Recruitment of prolonged production miners for one year will relieve the need for budgetary resources in the short term. It certainly seems to me that budgetary resources are earmarked in one way or another, but this is a rare case that solves this problem in a way that employs people, not by helping them through social transfers. In doing so, we will also achieve greater security of electricity supply based on domestic sources, as the Thermoelectric Trbovlje, as the only coal customer, meets up to 6% of the electricity needs in our country. The extension of coal production at the time of gradual closure further relieves pressure on budgetary resources, which is of paramount importance at the moment of the economic and social crisis. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party we will propose a bill of support.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Colleagues and colleagues. The position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region is as follows. We have before us a proposal for a law that is needed to solve the problem of the Sava region. The proposal solves two key issues and proposes to extend the deadline for the closure of the Trbovlje-Breeder Mine for one year by the end of 2010 and to redistribute the necessary resources for the implementation of the annual mine closure programmes. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome the fact that one of the fundamental reasons for the preparation of this law is of a social nature, which is very rare today, as it usually looks more at capital than at workers, so we will also support this bill. There is a desire to achieve a socially sustainable arrival, surplus workers in other working environments, as well as to ensure the continued operation of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje. With regard to the extension of the mine closure deadline, two variants are envisaged, after the first envisaged extension by the end of 2010 and the second extension by the end of 2012. The latter option is still an uncertain fact, as discussions are still under way in the European Commission on the amendment or extension of the coal regulation. Nevertheless, it seemed reasonable for the applicant to incorporate the second option into the draft law, as this would avoid re-examination following a positive decision by the European Commission. As a fundamental reason for the adoption of this law, we cannot only take into account the resolution of the social and cadre problems, but other important reasons, for example, are the stocks of quality coal, whose extension will contribute to the security of Slovenia's energy supply and the reduction of energy dependence. I would also like to draw attention here to the fact that some energy issues relating to the Savka region need to be answered clearly before the national energy programme is introduced. On the question of the construction of a gas steam plant, the renovation of the fourth block of the Thermoelectric Trbovlje and the construction of a hydroelectric power plant on the Central Sava. Otherwise, it's a story that's already in the next chapter. The DeSUS Group supports this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Make it clear because it's not obvious. During the 206 years of the existence of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, there was never a need for the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine for three countries. In the sixth place after the development in Yugoslavia with 20 million inhabitants was Zasavje and the municipality of Trbovlje! And even this time, to those who are not clear, let me say that it is still and the country will still need the Trbovlje-Bradnik Mine and not the other way around. Does the state have a need for energy? I guess the answer is yes. I don't know if it's anyone who thinks it isn't. Does the state have a need for energy? The answer is yes. Does the country, with such a configuration of knowledge, infrastructure, space, behaviour and tradition, want to save a lot of money or not? The answer is yes. This offers Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik and it offers a thermal power plant with. 6% of Slovenian energy is 6%. If the Russians or the Algerians shut down our gas, you'll be on your knees, or the country will be on your knees asking for a gas station, which will need coal, which it has all along. Thus, the story is quite simple: the need for energy, the need for energy, the need for energy, with as little costs as possible, that is a fact today, and this fact of course Zasavje, Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik and the power plant offer to help the country of Slovenia. It is also true that it is a little strange to interpret - to solve the social crisis or the poor economic situation. The average unemployment rate in Trbovje is 11% and something else, Slovenia's 10.8%. I don't think we need to talk about social support and assistance with an assumption that "let's say we help them, but if they don't have to go on the road, they'll shut down." That's not true! These people have education, they have behavior, they have knowledge, we have net stocks for 10 years, the energy state needs and these people have a normal job. And thank God they have it, don't say we're going to save them socially now. Where does it say we have to close the mine and dig it up in 10 years? There's no harm if there's any energy left to store for the gold reserve. But this is 1,800 jobs, only if the state wants them - of course I caricature them, regardless of authority, it is not a policy - to reach 100,000 unemployed. But that's not the point. The goal is less. These people have knowledge, they are currently directly employed around 500 on the mine, I speak directly, and with some smart mine closure program - of course once it is over and also this will and this program will be in this law, in fact I would prefer to see the number 2014, not 2012 - these people will retire normally, some will stay in the closing parts and the story will be nicely completed and you would write a nice history 210 years of mining in Trbovje. And we're not gonna just give the power plant. The power plant will still be needed, I am talking about renewable sources 20-20-20, which, if you ask me, are a fairy tale for all of Europe, just for Slovenia - and it has huge wooden biomass! At the same meeting of the committee we spoke Slovenia and in the hands of ladies and gentlemen! Thus, there should be no dilemma if we wanted to be in this country and all of us, not only from Zasavje, good for us as far as this law is concerned. As far as Europe is concerned, we're back! Again, Europe says, Europe says I don't care what Europe says! [[...]] Because neither does Hungary, nor does Spain, nor does Poland, nor does Romania, Slovakia and Germany care. Can they have the brains to say, "I don't care about Europe! We will, because we have it, do it normally." But we have to get the Slovenians on our knees, what will Europe say? It's stupid to make excuses for Europe! I think it's unfair of anyone who wouldn't support this marriage. He wouldn't support him for me or his colleagues from Zasavje, he'll support him for Slovenia and for energy security - or we'll sleep at the candles! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Miran Jerič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Minister of Economy, esteemed fellow Members, fellow Members! At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we support amendments and additions to the Law on the gradual closure of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and the development restructuring of the region. The bill extends the coal mining period in Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine and consequently changes the dynamics of the necessary budgetary resources for closure. While this extension is foreseen by the end of 2010, the law also includes the possibility of amending the European Regulation on State aid for coal originating in 2002 or to achieve this on the basis of the general rules on State aid in order to further extend the operation of the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine until the end of 2012. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we agree that it is useful to achieve a socially sustainable transition or facilitate the realization of the human and social programme on the one hand - on the production side there are an average of 260 people connected each year - and on the other hand, by prolonging the mining of coal in the Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine, we will also ensure the production of electricity with the help of a domestic energy expert, so to speak, brown coal, and thus increase not only the security and stability of the electricity market, but also reduce the energy dependence of the Republic of Slovenia. These amendments to the Act also reduce the costs of closure mainly due to the lower costs of works and certain fixed costs incurred by production, totalling around EUR 15 million by the end of 2015. It is also important that Rudnik Trbovlje-Hrastnik as well as the Zasavska region in this extension of the digging period make it easier to activate development potentials mainly for creating conditions or for developing new activities and thus creating conditions for opening new jobs. It should be pointed out that today there are about a thousand jobs linked to the suction energy, either directly or indirectly. In addition to these reasons, the LDS Club would like to draw particular attention to the open stocks of high-quality coal in Trbovlje-Hrastnik Rudnik, where there is about a million 200 000 tonnes of quality coal. Indeed, it would be pointless to leave open stocks untapped if they could be unearthed at competitive prices. In the LDS, we believe that, even with these amendments to the law, in connection with the preparation and amendment of the national energy programme, the debate should be opened or encouraged and, above all, the early decision on the existence and development of energy in Zasavje. We do not create energy in Zasavje, and Zasavje is an environment in which coal mining is more than 200 years old and some more than 100 years old. Energy has been the driving force behind the conservation and development of the Sava region all this time, and so we believe it will be in the future. The Trbovlje thermal power plant already contributes 6% of the electricity produced in Slovenia, all the necessary energy and other infrastructure are already in place in its immediate vicinity. Its upgrade and modernisation, based on financially sound and competitive business plans, would allow for a greater share in the structure of electricity produced in Slovenia. The Trbovlje-Hrastnik Mine is overtaken by tradition, knowledge and belonging and rich stocks of brown coal. Linking tradition and knowledge to the challenges of the future shows how unacceptable it would be to the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia that we do not build the future of Zasavje on these high-quality foundations as an important Slovenian energy region. As the LDS Club believes that changes in the law are good and meaningful both in energy, social, development and economic terms, we will support the proposed amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u93	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly cannot be tabled. I therefore conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made tomorrow, 20 May 2010, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law amending the law on cooperation between the national assembly and the government in matters of the European Union. The draft law was submitted to the National Assembly by a group of 18 Members and Members, first signed by Mr Lovtišar Bebler. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the bill's proposers, Darja Lovtišar Bebler. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague and respectable colleagues! The current law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union was adopted on 25 March 2004 and entered into force on 8 April 2004, Article 7 provides that working bodies shall deal with and decide on matters of the European Union at meetings which are not open to the public. They shall communicate their decisions to the public after the meeting. In recent years, there have been several initiatives to amend the law in this article so that the working bodies of the National Assembly will be open to the public. Article 1 of the amended draft law today, the only reason for the amendment is the nomotechnical nature, reads as follows: "The law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government on matters of the European Union is deleted. Article." 2. Article 2 provides that the law shall enter into force 15 days after its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. The current practice of the work of the Committee on European Union Affairs as a competent working body has shown that the exclusion of the public in the handling of matters of the European Union does not make sense, since the nature of the hearing is such that it does not lead to the disclosure of the negotiating points or positions of the Republic of Slovenia and thus the possible weakening of its negotiating position. In cases where there would actually be a hearing that might constitute such a risk, the applicant is still given the opportunity to deal with these matters in accordance with Article 101 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, thus preventing any harmful consequences for the Republic of Slovenia. In this regard, it is worth noting that the National Assembly or the Committee for the Affairs of the European Union, which, in the event that Slovenia is not a member of the European Union, would deal with at normally open meetings of the National Assembly, is now being considered in closed meetings. The European Union has made significant progress in recent years as regards the public work of the institutions. Thus, the Treaty of Lisbon has some general provisions regarding the public. The second paragraph of Article 1 of the Treaty on European Union provides for decisions to be taken in the European Union as publicly as possible and as closely as possible with citizens. Similarly, Article 15 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in the first paragraph provides that institutions should take the principle of public action as fully as possible in their work. In the second paragraph, it provides that the European Parliament shall meet in public as well as the Council of the European Union when it discusses and votes on the draft legislative act. The Council shall also provide for the eighth paragraph of Article 16 of the Treaty on European Union when deciding and voting on a draft legislative act. This is a general principle for the work of the institutions and bodies of the European Union, so that they are duly taken into account, in particular in the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union. These general provisions should take into account, at the same time, the amendment of the law, in order to directly implement the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon concerning the active contribution of national parliaments and thus the National Assembly to the good functioning of the European Union. It is worth mentioning that the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union, as legislative institutions at public meetings, consider a number of the same acts that the National Assembly or the European Union Affairs Committee considers in closed session. Therefore, the opening of our meetings makes even more sense. This is also the case with Article 1 of the Treaty on European Union, which provides in the second paragraph that decisions in the Union should be taken as publicly and as closely as possible in relation to citizens. In fact, it is a trend in dealing with European issues, as the transparency of the functioning of institutions has increased and become increasingly important in recent years. I therefore hope that the proposal of this law will be supported and thus brought closer to the citizens of the European Union, especially our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak to present the report to the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you very much. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the law at its 18th meeting on 6 March, the proposaler, the group of Members and Members, with the first-signatory, Mrs Darjo Lavtišar Bebler. The College has determined that this is a reduced procedure. The members and members of the Committee had the position of the Council of State, the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government's opinion, the Government's position on the opinion of the Council of State and, of course, the proposal for an amendment to the Committee tabled first. If I take a short look at the committee work, I have to say the following. On the Committee, it opposed this law exclusively and only the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, while Members and Members of the Committee, in fact, probably came together for the first time in such a form at the meeting of this Committee and unanimously adopted a law with 15 votes in favour or adopted an amendment and subsequently an entire text with 15 votes in favour and none against. The proposed text and adopted by the Committee shall form an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Jerina, Secretary of State, for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! The Government is aware that when adopting the amendment to the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government on EU matters, the National Assembly has full autonomy and can independently regulate the organisation of its work and determine whether the working bodies are sitting in meetings open or closed to the public. This is why we cannot oppose the proposed amendment. At the same time, we understand the objectives for which applicants want to open the meetings of the competent working bodies of the National Assembly to the public, but we believe that we must not neglect other important aspects in taking decisions on European Union matters in order to achieve the objectives set. Slovenia has followed the Nordic countries in adopting the law: Denmark, Finland and Sweden, where the competence of national parliaments in European Union matters is relatively high and therefore the working bodies of these parliaments, with rare exceptions, are closed to the public. Proposalers want to achieve greater transparency in political decision-making on EU matters by amending the law, and to bring citizens closer to decision-making at European level. It is possible to inform the public of these decisions taken at meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly, even after the provisions of the law already in force, but we believe that so far there has been little effort. The decision on EU matters is very specific in nature, as it is to a large extent a matter of preparing and adopting the views of the Republic of Slovenia in negotiations with other Member States or institutions of the European Union. This is why, in our view, a comparison with the open functioning of the European Union institution is not appropriate. Disclosure of Slovenian positions before the final decision is taken in Brussels could, in certain cases, weaken the negotiating power of Slovenian representatives vis-à-vis the European Union and other Member States. In drawing up the positions of the Republic of Slovenia, we also take into account the views of other Member States, which are presented in informal meetings, whose details are unknown to the public. It is therefore worth considering whether Member States' views can be disclosed to the public in the context of the meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly. In this way, Slovenia can lose its credibility and trust in partner countries in the European Union. In addition, a large part of the European Union's affairs are made up of documents labelled 'limiter'. This means that the document is not allowed to be distributed outside the national administration of the Member States as it concerns working documents of the European Union. In this case, documents shall not be disclosed to the public in the context of the open meetings of the competent working bodies of the National Assembly. Assuming that in the future the meetings of the competent working bodies will be open to the public, the Government will have to adjust the positions of the Republic of Slovenia and their explanations accordingly, or apply the provisions of the legislation governing the confidentiality or confidentiality of documents, in order not to undermine the interest of the Republic of Slovenia, particularly in cases of negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u99	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u100	Thank you very much. We will support the bill for a fundamental reason, because we do not really see any reason why on the websites of the Greek Government, for example, we read some things and we view them as confidential in the National Assembly or at meetings of working bodies. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will still have every opportunity to propose the confidentiality of the procedure, and we see no reason not to take it into account at the meeting of the working body or of the National Assembly. It is true, however, that the government is likely to be more restrictive in these provisions if this law is adopted in the future. I remember quite a few examples myself, where we can literally talk about banality, for example, in the components of medicines or some micro-organisms and so on. And we do not see any reason to work for confidential matters which can be made available to the general public and which, in our opinion, do not provide confidential information. It has even happened that, for example, we have dealt with identical matter twice at a meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. And because of the procedure prescribed, it was once dealt with at a public meeting and then within a minute or two at a closed meeting. We believe that this law, irrespective of the candidates, if I may say so, despite the fact that we have often opposed our opinions in the coalition and opposition, but this time we do not see any reason for not supporting the bill. I believe that the proposer, Mrs Beblereva, will be pleased with our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Tadej Slapnik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u102	Your Honor! Six years have passed since Slovenia entered the European Union. During this time, many good things have happened in Slovenia and in Europe as well as many bad ones. There is no doubt, however, that Slovenia is better today than it would have been if it had not entered the European Union. But membership in the European Union always means a multi-directional path. The operation of the common European market has contributed to the export growth of the Slovenian economy, to its greater involvement in Europe and beyond in the global economic space, while at the same time our economy has become more vulnerable to developments that cannot be directly affected. The economic and financial crisis has put the European Union and its citizens at risk of a new crossroads as well as new threats. We must not overlook the fact that countries and their economies are quite different, so the crisis, despite many similarities in the details, touches them very differently. The current debate and concerns about the sense of taking decisions on the resolution of the financial and economic crisis in individual countries at the expense of other countries and economies of the European Union, apart from the policies that we take decisions, are of course of great interest to citizens and citizens. The lack of public debate on such issues and the adoption of decisions at closed meetings of the National Assembly's home committee often also contribute to a fully principled opposition between citizens and citizens to such decisions, which is also understandable in the absence of the necessary arguments and information that make decisions. We are therefore in favour of the Proposal for a Law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union, because we are confident that the open meetings of the European Union Affairs Committee will make an important contribution to bringing the decisions made to Slovenian citizens closer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Secretary! The Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force on 1 December 2009, formally includes national parliaments for the first time in taking decisions of the European Union, separately from their cooperation with national governments. In our view, this improves the democratic legitimacy of the entire European Union and brings it closer to European citizens. After all, the rules of procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union also govern the public functioning. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that public meetings would make the work of the Committee of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs more transparent and, at the same time, citizens would be more aware of the importance of European affairs and their impact on everyday life. However, the Government will remain in a position to identify material with an appropriate degree of secrecy and thus to address it in closed sessions if it is not appropriate to make certain information available to the public. Members of the Slovenian People's Party support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will move the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The bill, which is also unanimously supported by the DeSUS Group and will therefore be voted on, includes, at first glance, a minor amendment relating to the deletion of Article 7 of the existing law, but this proposed amendment is certainly not insignificant. It refers to openness and thus accessibility to the public of the meetings of the competent working body of the National Assembly, this is the Committee on the European Union, whose meetings are closed to the public today. The closure of public meetings was determined just before the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Community due to the specific nature of the European Community matters, as it was all the time for negotiations. Today, these needs are virtually gone, so the proposaler proposes the opposite, namely the openness of these meetings. The reason for this kind of solution and for our support is to ensure greater transparency and greater transparency of political decision-making on European matters in the National Assembly, as well as greater accountability for public policy. Members of the DeSUS are convinced that this is not only an appropriate solution, which is certainly worth supporting, as it is also one of the fundamental principles of the European Union that decisions are made as publicly, transparently and closely as possible with the citizens of the European Community. They should be allowed to have access, to know and to learn all the necessary things concerning the community concerned by their country, their society and which they may, in accordance with the rules, decide, decide and cooperate in any other way. The European Union authorities are also increasingly taking this right into account. The European Union's website contains the first draft directives before they are sent to the Member States. There is a whole range of materials, consultations, materials, all kinds of studies that enable both Member States and citizens to formulate their opinions on the subject of public debate and public acceptance in the bodies of the European Union or in the country. In addition, the European Parliament has been in public debate for a number of years and has been in public co-decision on the European acquis. The Committee for the European Union could thus act on the same principle. However, we must not overlook the fact that the European Union Committee also deals with documents that cannot be public when they are being dealt with. This is mainly a negotiation platform. At that point and at a time when disclosure of the negotiating venues would in fact weaken the negotiating points themselves to other countries or bodies of the European Union and, in exceptional cases, the meetings of the European Union Committee would of course be closed to the public. The DeSUS Group has taken a position on this issue and voted accordingly in 2007 when a law was put into the legislative procedure, but unfortunately the ruling coalition did not have a hearing about it. Therefore, no solution was adopted. Today, when we decide on this issue, we will vote in line with our beliefs and we will unanimously support the proposal for a law, because we are convinced that it makes sense to deal with the legal acts of the European Union and the documents of the institutions of the European Union at public meetings of labour bodies within the parliaments of individual EU Member States. Also in view of the fact that decision-making at European level is targeted at the public, the documents and decisions of our Committee for the EU are already available to the public as a rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič will present his position on the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u108	Your Honor! The amendment of the proposal for a law on cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union concerns the deletion of the provisions of the current law, according to which the competent working body deals with and decides on matters of the European Union at meetings not open to the public and then after the meeting of its decision only communicates to the public. As part of its operation, the European Union respects the principle that decisions are taken as publicly and as closely as possible in relation to citizens. However, in the current law of cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union, it is stipulated that the meetings of the Committee of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs are not open to the public. According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, it is quite understandable that the meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs are closed to the public in the event of the handling of documents marked "secret", as provided for by the Secret Data Act. We do not agree, however, that all meetings of that committee are closed to the public. The National Assembly is the only link between the people of the Member States of the European Union and the European Union. The Committee of the National Assembly for the Affairs of the European Union shall examine and decide on the content which is of paramount importance and should also be informed about it by the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It is primarily the decision-making of rules legally binding in the Member States. This would still make sense open and transparent consideration of both the proposals for acts and the views of the Republic of Slovenia. Only in this way can citizens be fully aware of decisions on issues that have a concrete impact on their daily lives. However, the current way of work gives the feeling that the Government wants to suspend certain decisions by closed committee meetings and, as a result, hide some information from the public. In order to avoid the obvious lack of transparency in the handling of European cases and to ensure optimal transparency in the decision-making of the National Assembly, it is necessary to ensure public meetings of competent working bodies. As a result, the responsibility of policy towards the public would also be increased. Only if the views and decisions of the State's representatives from the legislative and executive branches are known to the public can the principle of their public responsibility be duly enforced. The adoption of the bill would also indirectly give rise to the provisions of the Treaty of Lisbon concerning the active contribution of national parliaments to the good functioning of the European Union. We support the proposed amendment of the law in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, as a meeting will be held at public meetings on the basis of the last Committee on European Union Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u110	Your Honor! Seems so small, and so important is the amendment of the law, the amendment of one article. It is more than obvious that we have been overly cautious, too somewhat detained in this part, when the National Assembly has dealt with matters under the competence of the European Union, because we considered it to be a new Member that it is likely that things will be discussed and decided on which citizens should not be interested should not be known sufficiently early or it was something else. I am convinced from the very beginning that I have also been involved in the law and in the rules of procedure in this work, that fear was too great or that it had too many eyes and that we have actually done this bear service to both citizens and citizens, as well as to the National Assembly, when it comes to things that later proved to be a change in the Treaty of Lisbon and with some other indications coming from everywhere. It is that decision-making is too remote for citizens and citizens of the European Union to decide in some estranged centres and many of the things that have been adopted do not take place in the citizens and citizens of the European Union, which would mean that it is a matter for them to decide for themselves and that the fates of all Europeans are also concerned. It is clear that the National Assembly will take one step forward by opening a meeting of a working body that deals primarily with European Union matters to make citizens and citizens aware of what is being done, what is being done, what will also affect their lives every day. However, this is not enough, both within the European Union and within the institutions, to consider how, however, through citizens' initiatives and various other forms, to involve more citizens' and citizens' interests in the pursuit of common issues that concern virtually each and every one of us. It is understandable that the Government is also in the past and is also now trying to reduce the deadlines for the delivery of the positions of the Republic of Slovenia to the working bodies of the National Assembly and, of course, the National Assembly itself and beyond that to the public. If there is more debate, more effort is needed, more positions need to be drawn up, more exchanges, opinions and the like. But it is built into the logic of every government, any, left, right, Slovenia, any other country, etc. It is therefore of particular importance that Members and Members be aware that it would not only be routinely accepted at meetings. Many times it happens that the views of the Government are adopted in a routine manner. On the one hand, it is this time problem, and on the other hand, it is also the fact that there is no initiative, that the National Assembly has not yet understood enough in this part, that it is only logically right that we are active in this work to co-create positions, to contribute on the basis of the experience and also the needs of citizens and citizens to a better position. I believe that when we also begin to implement the principle of subsidiarity to this extent in the country of Slovenia, in order to actually co-operate with representatives of other countries, on some issues we will develop initiatives and demands that this situation, i.e. the influence of citizens and citizens on decisions and, in particular, information on developments in the national Parliament, be truly brought to this level, [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] that decisions will be better and for the benefit of all of us. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u111	Thank you. Ms Janja Klasinc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u112	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! For most of our citizens, the area of European Union affairs is a considerable mystery. The most informed are mostly only when the European Union bodies are on the agenda in Brussels or Strasbourg, and the phases and circumstances of Slovenian treatment and decision-making are largely poorly understood by the local public. However, the changes to the law that we are deciding today look to a different practice. During the period of Slovenia's integration into the European Union, we have made our citizens and citizens well aware of the functioning of the Union through a special campaign, and we have been among the better informed Europeans in Eurobarometer research. After joining the European Union, we have forgotten this little, hand to heart, also because this is how the whole European bureaucracy worked. As a result, she began to distance herself more and more from her citizens. Let us recall only the Nice Treaty, which was signed in 2001, which allowed for an extension of the link to a maximum of 27 members. Already in this Treaty there have been difficulties as Ireland initially refused ratification at the June 2001 referendum and later only accepted it. This was partly due to the situation in Ireland and partly to the alienation of European Union bodies from the people of the European Union. The entire scenario was also repeated in the Lisbon Treaty, when, at the first referendum in 2005, they voted against France and the Netherlands and, in a recast form, in addition to Ireland against the Treaty of Lisbon, they kicked spears in Poland and the Czech Republic. And what should I say at the last events in Greece? I believe that if the Greeks really knew the situation and functioning of their country, as well as the efforts of the European Union, there would be no such resistance against the measures that save their bankrupt country. Similarly, people from other members of the monetary union, including us in Slovenia, would not so much resist the help of one member if they knew that they were saving themselves or their euro currency. In Brussels, these estrangements were taken into account and the result is also a type of innovation in the new Treaty of Lisbon, which gives a significantly greater role to national parliaments, including us, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The Treaty of Lisbon, which entered into force on 1 December 2009, formally includes national parliaments for the first time in taking decisions of the European Union, separately from their cooperation with national governments. This will enable national parliaments to co-create European legislation, as well as to monitor its compliance with the principle of subsidiarity, which is one of the most important principles of Union law. These are all the grounds and arguments for supporting the proposal of Members, signed first by Mr Lavtijar Bebler, to amend the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union, after which the meetings of the Committee on European Union Affairs will be open to the public. This will make both the work of the government and the work of Parliament in this area much more transparent, and the issues that the Union deals with and concern everything between us are more familiar and comprehensible to the Slovenian public. This also imposes on us the very Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, which provides in the second paragraph of Article 1, that decisions be taken in the European Union as publicly and as closely as possible with citizens. Article 15 of the Treaty also provides for institutions to take the principle of public action as fully as possible into account in their work. As these are general principles, it is right that we use them meaningfully in the work of national parliaments, as they are included in European decision-making processes through the Treaty of Lisbon. Members of Parliament are very united in this proposal, regardless of customer affiliation. A few objections were felt by the government, but they're superfluous. Each time an issue is put on the agenda, which must bear a level of confidentiality, it may be closed to the public under our Rules of Procedure. And that is how we will now act on the Committee on European Union Affairs. Social Democrats are aware of the need for openness in the functioning of this committee, and we are also aware of it in the opposition. Therefore, now that we are in the ruling coalition, we will be happy to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Agenda item - Proposal for an Act supplementing the Law on Administrative Disputes. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members, with a first-signed mag. Merry Christmas. At its 18th session, on 6 May 2010, the draft law was addressed by the Home Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we regret the fact that, at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, the coalition MPs rejected the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Administrative Dispute submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. In the Slovenian People's Party, we prepared the amendments to the law precisely because of the shortcomings that later led to the so-called Bulmastif affair. The point is that we do not have an institution in Slovenia to protect the latter in the face of a conflict of private and public interest. Indeed, the situation surrounding the return of the billmastifs has revealed what a flaw we have in the law, when the representative of the public interest can file an action only on the basis of the authority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in which the finding that the administrative act violated the law in the interest of the public interest cannot be brought on the basis of his own judgment. In the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, some felt that the law was too quick to be drawn up and that the relevant authorities should be prepared in peace and comprehensively to supplement the law. In the Slovenian People's Party, however, we have been alerting this banality for more than eight months. In the meantime, there was a tragedy, but no one at the Ministry of Justice moved to reform the law. In the Slovenian People's Party, it is noted that the initiation of an administrative dispute by the State Defence Office as a representative of public interest takes place in such a way that the Government must first conclude by a special decision that the administrative act violated the law in the interest of the public interest. It is only on the basis of such a decision that the Government may, in an individual case, authorise a State authority or another person to initiate an administrative dispute. The Bulmastif case has revealed in a good way what absurd situations and even a conflict of interest we have to come to when the country, when the administrative act of the State authority has violated the law in the interest of the public interest, finds first that it has violated the law in the interest of the public interest and then gives the State Defence Office of the Republic of Slovenia the power to sue it before the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia. It's so complicated, it's hard to understand. Public interest is not always the same as the interest of the public authority. And given that the consideration of the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the administrative dispute in the home labour body has been completed, I expect the Ministry of Justice to immediately prepare measures to protect the public interest in full and in all cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u115	Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! With a view to correcting the shortcomings leading to the abuse of the situation in the public authorities, the SLS Group proposed a amendment to the Law on Administrative Disputes concerning the representative of the public interest, in their view. They are convinced that these shortcomings, which they are now proposing, have led to the so-called Bulmastif affair. Members of the DeSUS Group and the motioners do not share the same conviction, so we will not support the bill. We believe that the current regime follows the constitutional principles of the rule of law, equality from law and the protection of public interest. Our initial scepticism on the appropriateness of this proposal has brought to the fore the expert opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which gave the reasons for the inappropriateness of such a proposal extremely good and professionally. Let me briefly summarize what the Legislative and Legal Service believes: "The bill proposes to supplement article 18 of the Administrative Dispute Act with a new fourth paragraph, allowing the Ombudsman to file an action when he finds that the administrative act violated the law in the interest of the public interest. The proposed regulation, in our view, means two things: for the first time, that the State's defence attorney could act without the power of the Government, and for the second time that he should determine, in his own opinion, whether the administrative act violated the law in the interest of the public interest. Such arrangements could be contrary in particular to the constitutional role of the Government, the rule of law and the principle of equality before the law." The DeSUS Group will therefore follow these professional arguments, so we will not support the bill and we will vote in favour of the conclusion of the working body that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Silven Majhenič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u118	Your Honor! The proposed amendment to the Law on Administrative Disputes is a minor addition to the law, justifying its adoption following a reduced procedure, while at the same time complementing the practice of ensuring the protection of public interest by the State's defences as necessary primarily because of the possible conflict of interests of individual national authorities. The proposed supplement gives the State Defence the opportunity to bring an action at its own discretion, contrary to the provisions of Article 18, second paragraph, where it finds that the administrative act has violated the law in the interest of the public interest. Following the provisions of Article 18 of the Law on Administrative Dispute, we have been able to come to an absurd situation where the State, when the administrative act of the State authority has violated the law in the interest of the public interest, has had to determine first that it has violated the law in the interest of the public interest and then grant the State defence authority the power to sue it before the Administrative Court. In view of the unreasonable situations and the apparent conflict of interest of the State authority in cases where an administrative act in breach of the law in the interest of public interest has been issued by the same administrative or state authority, which must subsequently decide on the granting of specific powers to the public defence. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we believe that it is definitely necessary to amend or supplement that Article of the Administrative Dispute Act. At the same time, the fact that the State does not, in the case of the judgment of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Slovenia, which is issued to the detriment of its interests or rights in the vast majority of cases, demonstrate a legal interest in the submission of an appropriate remedy is not to be ignored. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the proposed supplement is appropriate and that its possible adoption will help to ensure greater respect for and protection of public interest, so we will support the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Administrative Dispute in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Well-known Minister of Agriculture, colleagues and colleagues! We do not support the proposed solution in the draft law supplementing the Law on Administrative Disputes in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Both the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the Government gave a negative opinion. It was not decided on the Committee that the law was not suitable for further consideration and therefore the articles were voted on, but were also not adopted on the Committee. Therefore, on the basis of the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second paragraph of Article 61 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in conjunction with the provisions governing the treatment on the home labour body, it was concluded that the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Administrative Disputes and on the home labour body had been completed. And briefly on the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Administrative Disputes. The proposed solution is completely contrary to the concept of law in force and also to the concept of State defence. This was also very clearly substantiated by the State Secretary on the Committee. The applicable administrative procedure law is mainly based on the subjective concept of judicial control. In the event of the dismissal of actions by a public defender, and even at its own discretion, the Government considers that we are acting as an objective guardian of the legality of the state's defence lawyer, which goes beyond the constitutional framework. In the Administrative Procedure Act, there is only an exception to the fact that, for reasons of public interest, an active legitimacy can be granted to someone to challenge the final act. This function is linked in the law in force to the finding that the decision is incompatible with the public interest. This shall be decided by the Government and, as a consequence, shall grant the power to the person designated to represent the public interest. Such an opinion by the Government does not give the basis for a regulation which would give the Ombudsman general authority to assess on his own whether there has been a breach of the law in the interest of the public interest and then, on that basis, file an action for assaulting such acts. It maintains, however, that the Government itself or the Ministry of Justice has carried out an analysis of the existing regime laid down in the applicable law on administrative procedure. It has been found that the current regime is indeed not optimal, but the solutions sought by the Ministry will not be as radical as it is proposed. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we agree with the Government's opinion and assessment that the proposed solution would go too far into the concept of a valid law, so we will not support the proposal for a law to supplement the law on administrative dispute on the part of the parent body, but we will not support it today.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Čepič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats on the Committee on Internal Policy did not support the law on supplementing the law on the administrative dispute tabled by the Group of Members with the first-signed magi. Merry Christmas. In the course of the Committee's debate, we have found that the provisions of Article 18 of the Administrative Dispute Act have been duly recorded when a representative of the public interest represents the State in the exercise of public interest and who gives the powers and to whom. We did not agree that, in fact, the state's attorney, who is the state's attorney and the state's legal representative, could, in his belief or judgment, also file an action against the State when it violates the public interest law by means of an administrative act. Of course, the law must not give general authority to ensure the public interest of anyone. In the rule of law, procedures must be established and public interest protected and appropriate legal proceedings initiated on the basis of a finding where that interest is infringed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr Rudolf Petan will present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! In our opinion, the proposal to amend the law on administrative dispute put into the legislative procedure by the SLS Group of Members is appropriate in all its works. We have before us a proposal for a law that we will only get to know, which is a result of a very dramatic event and also a consequence of the situation where it has clearly been found that there is no legal and even less political interest in order to protect the public interest of the defence. It seems to the government that the proposed solution does not deserve support, which is rather strange on the basis of the facts. In the SDS Group, we are convinced that if ministers and ministries were to work in the interest of the public interest and adhere to it consistently, no change in the law on the administrative dispute would be necessary, it would fall away on its own. However, this confidence in the country at this time is not in this political space, and we would not be able to expose this government and argue that we can trust it. In the last four months, we've talked a lot about having an affair with returning dangerous dogs to the owner. At one point, state defence was also included in this story. We have noticed in the public that it wanted to be involved in the process of returning dangerous dogs, but because of the power given by the Government, this was not possible. While the general power vested in the State defence is not sufficient in this case. In practice, it has been shown that, in certain cases, in the existing resolution of the law, there is an unsustainable and harmful conflict of interest between the public authorities. This is the case where an administrative act allegedly in breach of the law has been issued by the same authority or if you want a state authority to decide on the granting of a special, i.e. a special mandate to the State defence on the basis of which it can bring an action against that same administrative authority on behalf of the protection of public interest. In this case, therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture should issue a special mandate to enable the State Defence to submit an appropriate legal remedy against the Ministry of Agriculture. There's been a conflict of interest here, and then it wasn't. The amendment of the Law on Administrative Disputes is also accompanied by the fact that the State does not, in the case of the judgment of the Administrative Court, which was issued in the detriment of its interests or rights, in the vast majority of cases show a legal interest in the lodging of a complaint or audit. The proposed amendment to the Administrative Dispute Act would therefore also be necessary from the point of view of the legal protection of the public interest. You could say "emergency." The proposal to supplement Article 18 of the Law on Administrative Dispute would allow the Advocate General to bring an action where, according to his own opinion, he finds that the administrative act violates the law to the detriment of public interest and would constitute a major step forward for legal practice and, on the basis of experience, a welcome and urgent change. In the SDS Group, we believe that filling such a gap in the Administrative Dispute Act would be an important contribution to the legal protection of the public interest, but unfortunately this will not be possible because the law, due to the Government's negative position, also attracted by coalition Members and Members on the home committee, has not experienced a second treatment, which means that the procedure is closed. In the SDS, we are convinced that the proposal is suitable for further consideration and we support such a bill, not the Committee's decision. The law is happening in the same way as clearing up an event that has shown the necessity of amending this law on administrative dispute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. PERIOD OF THE DAY - TO CONDUCT THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE AGRICULTURE LAW AND THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members, with the first-signed France Bogovic. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In order to further explain the draft decision, I give the floor to the member of the Committee of Mrs Bredi Pecan. [[She's not here.]] For this reason, I give the floor to the representative of the law's proponents, Franz Puksic, for an introductory presentation of the position on the proposal of the parent working body. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u126	Good-bye! Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice President, Mr Minister! Today you will be witnesses to quite two laws when you hear smart proposals from the opposition, but of course because of the coalition machinery you will not be accepted, which is a pity for this country and you, who swore here, will work for the good of the country, but you will have to endure it today. I'm sorry. We therefore believe that the amendments to the law adopted in January this year have reversed the function of the Fund, and in particular have not made it possible to speculate on agricultural land, but have also increased the opportunity to take advantage of individuals in reselling agricultural land. I can show you what happened at the last meeting of the investigative commission, where we found that Mayor Zoran Jankovic bought a farm plot that is now being converted into a building plot and that he also manages operations and overpasses over the highway. The changes, which were apparently also adopted by buying votes from individual Members, have weakened the control over the operation of the Fund and the use of budgetary resources. Thus, a law was adopted to abolish the Fund's Supervisory Committee and to report directly to the National Assembly, which is, of course, unacceptable and stupid. The control over the use of budgetary resources should be strengthened to a greater extent and should ensure that the operation of the Fund is even more transparent. The additional argument to reintroduce the control of the Fund is, of course, also the economic crisis in which we are located. In this economic crisis, of course, some are also voting and "breeding" on agricultural land. The recent amendments to the law have further withdrawn the funds from the concession fees, while at the same time imposing a cost on the employees of the Forest Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which, according to the applicants, leads to the Fund's full dependence on the current political apparatus or the gradual abolition of its core duties and the transfer of important decisions in this area is therefore transferred to the Government. We have already pointed out in the context of the public presentation of opinions on the regulation of the land policy of agricultural forests and land that the proposed amendments to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests are poorly prepared and do not address the problems that have arisen in line and even worsen the proposed amendments to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests rather than improve it. There was a large participation of the interested and professional public in the public presentation. Few times, so many interested people show up. There were many arguments, comments, opinions and proposals, but the Ministry or Government of the Republic of Slovenia confirmed, without any doubt, the proposed amendment of the law the following day, without taking into account at least one of the opinions of experts and the public concerned. We were outraged at such an ignorant attitude towards the professional public and at the failure to respect any other proposal. Since the law adopted in January 2010 did not solve problems in the functioning of the Fund, but also increased the opportunities for speculation in the sale of agricultural land and because the law was also adopted due to the so-called vote buying, we propose amendments to those articles which are controversial and for which the profession has also pointed out that they are controversial and unacceptable for the benefit of Slovenian forests and Slovenian agriculture. We believe that agricultural land must be protected from the building and other interventions to the premises and preserved and increased in value. Once again, the mayor's land at the former dairy is agricultural, and the mayor is moving it to a construction site where he will build, I don't know, an apartment or sell it for large malls. Therefore, greater importance should be given to the conservation of farmland if you want to in this ring of Ljubljana, in hilly and other less accessible or less suitable areas for cultivation, as these areas are the most vulnerable to growth. The abolition of the Fund's Supervisory Board and the suspension of reporting to the National Assembly are certainly not beneficial to the pursuit of public interest. If he doesn't get married in the National Assembly, that's certainly not good. But it's good for speculation and manipulation. We can't help but think that someone is so disturbed by public control and that some of the work of the fund would like to be withdrawn to the public.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u127	Thank you. To present the government's position, I give the word mag. To dean jedan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go. Just for the pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u128	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The government's opinion is as follows. The proposed amendments are not in line with the principle of the division of power into legislative, enforcement and judicial, nor do the solutions or proposals they make contribute in any way to the more efficient and economical operation of the Fund and to the application of the objectives and principles that this law is intended to follow. By amending the composition of the Council, the Law eliminated the conflict of interests between the personal interests of the members of the Council, who are representatives of the tenant or concessionaires, and the public interest pursued by the Fund. The proposed law, however, re-establishes a conflict of interest. The role of the National Assembly in overseeing the operation of the Fund has also remained with the amendment of the Fund Act, as the Government must report to it at least once a year on the activities of the Fund and on measures, as the Fund’s Supervisory Board has done so far. The Forest Administration, with the transfer of fewer employees, is 17 employees, does not reduce the importance of its role in the field of expertise. In both cases, it is a matter of state institutions which must pursue the same objectives in the management of state property. However, to ensure that cooperation is correct, it also confirms the readiness of the two partners and the activities already carried out with regard to the transfer of workers, funds and archives of the Fund in accordance with the provisions of Article 12. Therefore, the Government’s position is that the Government cannot support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you, Minister. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u130	Thank you for your word. All present, welcome. In the DeSUS Group, we will not support the proposal for a new Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia, as we believe it does not offer any proposals to help the Fund operate more efficiently, economically and transparently. Moreover, the proposal of the novel restores the operation of the fund back to the state before the entry into force of the amendment of the law, which was adopted in February of this year. The old situation enabled the imprudent operation of the fund, which allowed many to mix with land for their own benefit. The current regime, however, prevents some who have taken advantage of the Fund from getting over it. In February, the adopted amendment to the law on compliance with the amendment of the composition of the Council of the Fund eliminated the conflict of interests between the private interests of members of the Council, who are representatives of the tenants or concessionaires, and the public interest pursued by the Fund. The proposal before us, however, re-establishes the conflict of interest. The Novel’s proposals before us are clear from the law in force that it has repealed the previous regime or the situation which has prevented the management of state forests from being manipulated and unilaterally decided by the current authorities, since the management of the Fund was subordinated to the decision of the National Assembly through the Supervisory Board. Of course they don't. Article 39 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia imposes control over the implementation of the financial plans and the regularity of the financial statements of public funds, public undertakings and institutions, the founder of which is the Republic of Slovenia. This February novel has not changed this, but has strengthened the role of the executive branch of the authority responsible for the implementation of the policy - laws and other regulations adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The role of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in overseeing the operation of the Fund has also remained with the February amendment of the Fund Act, as the Government must report to it at least once a year on the activities of the Fund and the measures, as the Fund’s Supervisory Board has done so. The content of the report of the Fund's Supervisory Committee has largely summed up the content of the annual report on the Fund's work to which the government must give its consent after the adoption of the Fund's World. The Fund’s Supervisory Board added only a short report on its work and initiative to this content, which can be replaced by reports from specialised institutions in the field of control of operations and operations, which also exercise control over the Fund’s work, such as the Court of Auditors, the Office for Budgetary Control and internal audit. The applicant also touched on the provisions governing the transfer of workers and competences from the Slovenian Institute of Forests to the Fund. This is a solution which, from an organisational and economic point of view, is an entirely logical solution, especially because the Fund is included in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's collective human resources plan and cannot employ new people. Under Article 12 of the current law, some 17 employees are already being transferred, as it seems, without any major complications. This does not reduce the importance of the role it plays in the field of expertise. Good cooperation between the two institutions, however, will be crucial to the effective management of state forests in the future. In both cases, it is a matter of state institutions which must pursue the same objectives in the management of state property. In doing so, it should be stressed that there is no transfer of public tasks which the Slovenian Institute of Forests has under the law, but only for the tasks which the Institute has performed so far under contract against payment for the Fund. As we say, we do not support this bill before us in the DeSUS Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Slovenian delegation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! As you all know, in the Slovenian National Party, we have been criminalised to the extent that we were suspected of corruption, buying, selling votes. The former minister also flew away, there was so much rumpooma and none of it proved, but only empty suspicions and floods. We have therefore concluded in the Slovenian National Party that, in future, we will not give our views or our opinions, nor will we vote that there will be any further doubts, in the laws, draft laws relating to this agricultural fund, even in order not to fly away from the new minister. But by the way, with a little sarcasm, we're in this frame of mind, in this law, we "passed" our envelopes went, what didn't go into envelopes, our president gave you here on the counter, I hope you shared. Well, in short, thank you for your cooperation. We're not going to cooperate in this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thank you. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. A friendly greeting to the Minister, a rare colleague and colleague who is interested in this! Of course, a beautiful song with a long beard, which, in Parliament, with the existing law that we have adopted, has been positively saved for the good of Slovenian agriculture, agricultural land and forests. Well, Mr. Puksich, thank you very much for these gestures. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia does not support bad laws; it does not support inadvertent solutions, and this is how it will do the voting this time. However, I would strongly recommend to those of the most vocal critics and proponents of this solution that they review everything that has been said, communicated to the public, what should be wrong with the law that we have adopted and has also experienced the veto of the State Council and has been reconfirmed. None of those eyewitnesses were incorporated into the solution of today's law, but one simple human resources, how in the field of agriculture, forestry, to preserve the influence of individuals and lobbyists who are in the Slovenian forest, in quotations and parables, "cut in length and thread" and these human resources influences, would have maintained ties until today. But I am glad that I am a member of the coalition, which, when we were in the opposition, wrote down, and in Dnevnik it was written down. The revenue from the purchase from Slovenian forests is increasing from year to year. This year will be more than €2 million. And that now some, even mayors, are most disturbed by the fact that the Slovenian municipalities, which have many municipal, local, forest and state roads destroyed because of the transport from the forest, have received from this concession something that will not only be used by foresters, but also by citizens and citizens from remote farms every day, are also used by many visitors to the countryside, nature and recreation, better. The original sin of 1996 when we granted the President's concessions, is everything okay with time? [[...]] How much longer do I have? Thank you very much. Well, I must say, it was essential surveillance. And it is with this transfer of forests, experienced, best Slovenian personnel, from the Institute for Forests to the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests that we increase control and control. No one will say that at the time of the recession, at the time of the crisis, the transfer of 17 people from the system of more than 700 public servants means an attack and dismantling of the public forestry service system, which, I must say, in the LDS Club we trust, acknowledge the results, good work, good management of Slovenian forests, and I am sure that the same people within the same state system, this time as employees of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, will continue to be careful and good owners of Slovenian forests. And that's what this is all about. However, by establishing better management and also some of the building lands that have already been defined as wally have been transferred from the fund to the municipalities, there is nothing wrong with them, because these lands have ended up in accordance with the origins of the municipalities in Slovenia and we will use them for development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u135	Thank you. Ms Breda Pečan will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good day to all who insist on this meeting, and a happy good day and welcome to the new Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. Jedhan! I would like to say that the Group of Social Democrats, as we have already said at the Committee's meeting, does not support these changes. This is because, according to the Director of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, Mr Sergio Daoli, the law has not yet come into force, because it has also not been able to tell us on the Committee what the effects of the abolition of the Supervisory Committee and the changes on how the board of the institution will function or the Council of the Fund will function when it is drawn up differently than before. I would like to point out, however, that the amendment to Article 5 of the Law, namely that without shame, the proposaler is returning to allow the world of the Fund to operate by people who have a marked conflict of interest - a clear conflict of interest, I repeat, as has been the case for years and years in this context. It is impossible that the proposed amendments have allowed themselves to reintroduce the law into the conflict of interest that the current Law on the Land and Forests Fund B has eliminated. I state what the law currently in force says: "The possibility of conflict in the previous sentence shall be considered if a member or the President of the Council is a member of the fund or a tenant of land in the management of the fund, the contractor of the works or the contractor of the works in the forests with which the fund is managed." By adopting the amendments and supplementing this law in January, we decided to prevent such conflicts of interest and to return them. Not to mention what the law does not consider, but I think that the Fund's management should seriously consider that the owners of large areas of agricultural land are even fund workers. I don't think a fund employee should have a fund-owned lease of land, especially those who decide who gets a lease. Especially not him! And it's been happening for years and years. The amendments tabled by the Slovenian People's Party to the procedure are submitted in great anticipation. The fact is that the effects of the amendments to this law could not yet be verified. And whether they're good or bad, anything is possible, no marriage is ideal, but the Human Party is just assessing that they're bad, even though the law has just entered into force. Interestingly, the People's Party did not make any changes to this law in the way it was promoted at the time of the adoption of variant b, version b, that is then the law that is now in force. In fact, at the time, the greatest talk was that the congregations should not receive the building land that had been designated as building land in the past, which was a large foreign currency. The second large foreign currency was that municipalities should not receive the shares of the concession fee. On the need for the National Assembly to oversee the operation of the Fund: in all past years, in the National Assembly, in the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, it has been very often requested that the report of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund be examined by the National Assembly in plenary. Each time, with one exception, the parties prevented this hearing from taking place in plenary. What is this great control of the operation of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, but even in all the years 17 and as far as this Fund is concerned, only once has the State Assembly considered the report of the Supervisory Committee in plenary. So, is this control? The discussion was on the committee on how people should manage or decide how the fund would work. Thus, the people should probably decide at the referendum whether the operation of the fund is right or wrong, because otherwise I do not know how people wonder if it is satisfied with the operation of an institution such as the Fund. But the fact is, with the January amendments to the law, that the body most responsible for the functioning of state-owned institutions, such as funds such as institutions such as businesses, this is the Government and the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, will finally truly be responsible for how the Fund will operate. We will therefore support the Committee's decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr Robert Hrovat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. After presenting your views, you will be given procedural treatment. Mr. Croat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The Honourable Minister. Members and Members of Parliament. The representative of the bill's proposer stressed that the proposal was ready to establish a state before the last amendment of this law in January of this year, to which there were many comments when it was adopted. The recent amendments to the Law on the Agricultural Lands Fund have reversed the function of the Fund and weakened the control of the operation. The Fund’s governing committee went on to report on its work directly to the National Assembly, which is certainly controversial. The operation of the fund, which is entrusted with the management of agricultural land and forests, cannot and must not only be a matter of government, but of society as a whole. With the amendment, the proposer wants to ensure that the control of the Fund is maintained and, even in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that the previous regime has been better since it advocated a better situation for normal work and, above all, the need for public control of the Fund. At the first reading of the adoption of this law, we warned the Slovenian Democratic Party that it would be right for the National Assembly to maintain the role of the fund's body nominee and to remain a supervisor. This is not about the influence or influence of politics. It is transparency before the public, it is a debate on the proposed staff in the National Assembly. The main part of the influence is the coalition, and we are particularly disturbed by the evaluation of the Member's function. As if the government had suddenly found or assessed that our judgment was not appropriate, as if we were no longer able to assess what was right and what was wrong. And it's like we don't know who's fit for a function anymore and who isn't. And this has been happening in all areas lately. We strongly oppose such acts in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Let us recall only yesterday's meeting where you voted, the coalition, that the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission is proposed by the President of the State. Therefore, we estimate that the law in force on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia does not change towards a more efficient, transparent and even better functioning of the Fund. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the amendment proposed by the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u139	Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u140	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia was established in 1993 to manage and dispose of agricultural land, farms and forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The objectives of the Fund and the basic objectives of its operation are defined in the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, the Strategy for the Development of Slovenian Agriculture and the Programme for the Development of Forests in Slovenia. The important tasks of the Fund include transport with agricultural land and forests, purchase, sale and exchange of land. And right now, the law in force provides for a better and more precise operation of the fund, which has recently received considerable attention, and of course also a criticism of the public. At its December meeting, the National Assembly adopted some amendments to the law. With all the additions and solutions in the Group, we were indeed not satisfied. Above all, we were disappointed because we have not made any more radical changes that would allow the harmony to really realize his mission. Later, the Council of State vetoed the matter, called on the National Assembly to reconsider its decision and to express its disagreement with the content of the law. According to state councilors, the law did not bring any new developments in the direction of positive action and would improve and allow easier solutions to problems to be addressed on the basis of their opinion, the opinion of the Council of State, but only changes relating to the internal arrangements of the Fund. A similar opinion was also put forward by a group of SLS members who have already tabled a bill amending the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests only three months after the adoption of the law in the National Assembly. In the Group of Members, we really believe that the entire content of the bill makes it impossible to achieve the Fund's main objective, which is the active and effective implementation of agri-land policy. Among other things, it restores the operation of the fund back to the state before the entry into force of the Law on Funding, which was also intended to increase the influence of the Government on the operation of the fund. In our view, however, this will allow for more cost-effective and cost-effective governance and the availability of state-owned agricultural land. We must not forget that the Fund has masters and has almost 16% of all land owned by the State, so its role in this area is still important. In the Group of Members, we really do not believe that the proposed changes are in line with the principle of the division of power into legislative, enforcement and judicial, nor do their solutions in any way help to make the Fund work better today. The entire content of the proposal restores the Fund's business back to the situation before this change is implemented, which aims to increase the Government's impact on the operation of the Fund and to enable economic and economic management and management of agricultural land. The former form of guidance to which we are supposed to return, according to the proposal of the law before us, has simply not yielded its results, so such a proposal is actually an anachronism. For it has been shown that both management and control of the Fund have not been effective. Finally, I should like to recall only the reports of the findings of the Anti-Corruption Commission and the Court of Auditors concerning the operation of the Fund in the form of supervision and management as proposed again. Therefore, in the Group of Members, we will not support the proposed changes concerning solely the management and control of the Fund, because returning to the previous situation would be a step backwards. However, we wonder how we can really verify in such a short time whether the solutions adopted in February are appropriate or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u141	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u142	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General. The Slovenian People's Party's Group does not, of course, support the proposed decision of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, by which the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests is not suitable for further consideration. The changes, which were apparently also adopted by buying votes from individual Members, have weakened the control over the operation of the Fund and the use of budgetary resources. A law has been adopted to abolish the Fund's Supervisory Committee and to report only this directly to the National Assembly, which is unacceptable in our view. The control over the use of budgetary resources should be strengthened to a greater extent and should ensure that the operation of the Fund is even more transparent. An additional argument to reintroduce the control of the Fund is also the economic crisis we are in. Let us remind ourselves that the last amendments to the law of the Fund have been further withdrawn from the concession fees, while at the same time the employees of the Institute for Forests of the Republic of Slovenia impose additional costs on it, which, according to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, leads to the full dependence of the Fund on the current political apparatus or the gradual abolition of its core duties and the transfer of important decisions in this area to the Government, with recent changes to the law, has also passed the appointment of the Council of the Fund under the auspices of the Government. We believe that the management of agricultural land and forests is in the wider public interest of the Slovenian state. The forest management programme was adopted in the National Assembly and can therefore be considered as a consensus of the general public. The proposed amendments would restore the regime to the previous state of affairs, which, in the management of state forests, excluded the possibility of manipulation and unilateral decisions of the current authorities, since the management of the fund was subordinated to the decision of the National Assembly. For this reason, in our view, it would be necessary to maintain control over the operation of the Fund and the use of budgetary resources. The operation of the Fund, which is entrusted with the management of agricultural land and forests, cannot only be the subject of the current government, but rather the concern of the whole of society. Among other things, the proposal for a law would return to the Institute of Forests to carry out the tasks set out in Article 57 of the Law on Forests, as it was before the last amendments were made and this law was supplemented. At the same time, we would also stop the transfer of workers, funds and archives from the institution to the fund, which, according to the representatives of the forestry sector, would be the beginning of a decommissioning of a single forestry service that ensures public interest in all forests. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we therefore believe that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests would be very welcome and necessary, so we will not support the decision proposed by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u143	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Puksic, did you want a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I wanted to point out during the presentation of the positions of the groups of Members that some in the positions of the groups of Members speak of the Slovenian People's Party, speak of the Slovenian People's Party preventing the consideration of the report of the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests in the National Assembly, by the way, there was never a majority in the government, not in the committee, so that they could do so, they were talking about workers in accordance with agricultural land and so on. It seemed inappropriate or contrary to the Rules of Procedure when presenting the position of the groups of Members and in the future, if this would happen to you, then please note those who represent the position of the groups of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u145	Thank you. The proposal for a decision will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day - this is a second-level proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on employment. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members with the first-signed France Bogovic. With regard to this proposal, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food proposes to the National Assembly that it be decided that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the member of the Committee, Breda Pecan. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u146	Thank you for your words, Mr Vice President, and I apologize for my previous delay, because I simply got caught up in the hallway there and that's why I was recognized. Therefore, the report to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act of the 18th session of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, of 4 May, when the Committee, as the parent labour body, considered the above-mentioned law and submitted to the Committee of Members with the first-signed France Bogovic for consideration after a reduced procedure. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which made some comments on the nomotechnical aspect. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Government, which does not support the proposal for a law, since the adoption of the bill would create a discrepancy between the law on auditing and the law on amendments and amendments to the cooperative law and, in the proposed content, reintroduce a section on joint audit into the law, which is legally inadmissible. In the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, it is also not possible to conclude that a cooperative relationship would be independent in the implementation of mandatory audits, as it creates a rather dependent relationship with cooperatives with a number of activities. In the 11th preambular paragraph, the Directive sets out, in particular, the direct or indirect financial interest of the audited entity and the provision of additional non-audit-related services as an example of a threat to the independence of the statutory auditor or audit firm. The Committee also took note of the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which supports the proposal for a law. In the debate, a representative of the Association of Slovenia, who supports the proposal for a law, also took note of the fact that last autumn, when adopting the previous amendment of the cooperative law, there were concerns about the consistency of the regulation of the cooperative audit in the cooperative law. The Revision 2 Act, which implemented the 2006 Directive on statutory audits for annual and consolidated financial statements, provided that the audit firm could only be set up as an economic company or as an individual independent entrepreneur. It is therefore a question of whether or not the regulation of a joint audit is part of the revision law 2 or whether the cooperative law is more appropriate. In the view of the Association of Slovenia, it would be more appropriate, from a legal point of view, to regulate the joint audit in the cooperative law, which deals with all the status issues of cooperatives. The proposed joint audit also provides for the revision of all cooperatives, while the 2006 European Council Directive governs only the revision of European cooperatives and cooperatives for which auditing of accounts is mandatory under European legislation. On a proposal from the Group of Social Democrats, the Committee discussed the draft law and the amendment tabled on the basis of the opinion of the Government in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and decided that the draft law was not suitable for further consideration. The explanation of this proposal expresses the belief that the comments made by the Government as well as the Legal and Legal Service are so sound and justified that the proposal cannot be supported. It was also pointed out that, in this and in the previous mandate, the applicants have already tabled several amendments to the cooperative law in exactly the same text. All attempts to introduce a chapter on peer review into the cooperative law were rejected with the same warning, namely that this would result in a discrepancy between the law on auditing and the law on amendments and amendments to the cooperative law. It has also been repeatedly explained to the proposers that the appropriate grounds for drafting the amendment of the cooperative law in the auditing law should first be put in place. In the legislative process, at the moment, both proposals for laws, in addition to the amendment of the cooperatives, are also amendments to the law on auditing, and if they wish to reintroduce the cooperative law, it would therefore be necessary to adopt and implement the amendment of the law on auditing first. The question is also raised why the law on the social relationship of Slovenia does not establish an audit company in accordance with the auditing law. It was also pointed out that the proposal for a law not only regulates agricultural cooperatives but refers to the regulation of the issue of European cooperatives. According to available data, about 500 European cooperatives are registered in Slovenia, of which 135 are agricultural, and of these there are only 73 members of the Association of Slovenia. In practice, this means that only three to five persons have the possibility of being organised in an organisational form, in accordance with the applicable law, for the audit companies provided for by the law on auditing. That is why, as previously said, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] 5 votes in favour and 4 against, to the effect that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cooperatives Act is not appropriate for further consideration. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr Franz Puksič will present his position on behalf of the bill-makers. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister. So today is kind of the day of the legislation of the Slovenian People's Party, its work, both the role of the law on administrative procedure, the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands, the law on cooperatives, which also continues with the law on auditing, so this is not true. At the same time, we knew and proposed an amendment to the auditing law and prepared it. Oh, yeah. In amending the recent amendments to the cooperative law, we have come to the conclusion that very many of those who are and we have estimated that the wrong amendment to the cooperative law, which has eliminated a joint audit based on the audit law, was number 43, based on the 2006 directive. In our opinion, this Directive even explicitly provides in the preamble that cooperatives may be audited by an entity in which cooperatives are incorporated, which means that there are no reasonable indications that the membership of the entity audited by the cooperative would in itself constitute an unacceptable derogation from the requirement of independence of audit firms. We believe that this provides for the possibility for cooperatives to provide audit services in participating cooperatives even after the implementation of Directive 2006 No 43. In addition, the specificities of the audit cooperative shall take into account the provision referred to in Article 3, paragraph 4, of that Directive, which expressly allows for a departure from the requirement that most of the voting rights in the audit body must belong to audit firms in the case of statutory audits of cooperatives and similar entities. All in accordance with Directive 2006 No 43. The problem is therefore that there are no audits in the entire range of Slovenian cooperatives with so-called cooperative assets, since the cooperative law has previously stated that small cooperatives carry out audits every two years, while the new obligation left only cooperatives, which are medium-sized and large companies, which means that the vast majority of Slovenian cooperatives no longer receive these audits. And that's not good, so say whatever you want. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have prepared a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Cooperation Act and at the same time a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Revision Act. In the beginning, I said that this joint audit would therefore be reintroduced and that it would be compulsory for all cooperatives, both cooperatives within the meaning of the large companies they carry out each year and also small cooperatives, where such an audit would take place at least once at the end of their term of office to the cooperative authorities. In its consideration of the law, comments were made that this is also a financial burden for small cooperatives for two years, and it is probably right, from the point of view of the protection of property, to carry out an audit at the end of the mandate. One proverb is, It's good or it's nice to trust, it's even better to control. I don't know why the coalition is defending this possibility of carrying out this audit. As I have already mentioned, we have also prepared, together with this bill, a proposal for amendments to the law on auditing so as not to listen again to the readings of those we are listening to, which is to say that the law on cooperatives is not in line with the law on auditing. This law is dealt with tomorrow, Thursday, in the National Assembly under order point 16. However, these findings were re-emerged by coalition parties, suggesting that there is in fact no legal argument for rejecting this bill or that unfounded and outdated arguments are being used, or otherwise, computerically stated that the coalition works only "copy-paste" on well-proposed laws by the Slovenian People's Party and rejects them after the "copy-paste" system.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u149	Thank you. Mag. Dejan Židan, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, will present the Government's position. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u150	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not agree with the proposed amendments and additions to the cooperative law and does not support this proposal, as it considers that the adoption of that law, with which a joint review is re-established, would lead to the mutual non-compliance of the two laws, namely the Audit Act and the Cooperative Act, which reintroduces into the proposed content a chapter on mutual audit, which is legally inadmissible. The government also considers that the proposed law cannot introduce a joint audit within the meaning of an independent joint audit under the auditing law, as this would be contrary to EU rules. By implementing the auditing law which transposes the Directive into the Slovenian legal order, the cooperative, in the written opinion of the Ministry of Finance, has lost the status of the audit company because it does not meet the conditions laid down by the Directive and the law for audit companies. According to the Ministry of Finance quoted above, it cannot be concluded that a cooperative relationship would be independent in the implementation of mandatory audits, as it creates a fairly dependent relationship with cooperatives with many activities. However, in the 11th preambular paragraph, as an example of a threat to the independence of the statutory auditor or audit firm, the Directive sets out in particular the direct or indirect financial interest for the audited entity and the provision of additional non-audit services, which is why the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u151	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u152	Thank you very much again for your word. It's too bad the proposaler's leaving us. The essence of the presentation of our parliamentary group's position, as far as this law is concerned, is that in Slovenia we want an independent and fair audit, not some domestic business which is contrary to European Union law. The substance of the proposal for a new cooperative law, which we are considering today and which was put into the legislative process by the Slovenian People's Party, is to re-enter into the existing law a chapter on joint audit, which was deleted last October by the last amendment of the law. The issue of joint audit, thanks to the Slovenian People's Party, has far exceeded the professional framework for which, according to the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, this issue belongs. With the proposal under consideration and with the proposal for a new revision law, which we are considering at this meeting, the efforts of the Slovenian People's Party, after maintaining some kind of domestic cooperative audit, have already passed the thresholds of good taste. Although the arguments on this issue have not been sufficient so far, we are left with no other reason than to state again why in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, under all other unaltered circumstances, we will not support the re-energizing of the joint audit within the Association of Slovenia. The formal abolition of the joint audit, or the fact that the Association of Slovenia has lost the status of the audit company, is a result of its abolition in the auditing law. Since, according to the relevant legal opinions, it is not possible to claim the specificity of the cooperative law under the auditing law, there is no other option than to delete the chapter of the cooperative law which governed the area of mutual audit with the last amendment adopted. Another possible solution would have been, which was repeatedly pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, that the possibility of the Joint Association of Slovenia further carrying out a joint audit would have been regulated by an appropriate amendment of the auditing law or by a nomotechnically appropriate way in the cooperative law. One or the other solution, according to the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, is unacceptable. Firstly, the recent arrangements for joint audit have deviated from the relevant Directives of the European Union. Therefore, in the LDS, we accept the Government's extensive argument so far, which comes from the time of the mandate of Minister Andrej Bajuk, so that such joint audit arrangements do not, in particular, meet the requirements of the Compulsory Audit Directive for own and consolidated accounts. In doing so, we would also like to point out the less common fact that our cooperatives did not meet the requirement for a mandatory audit, which in accordance with the Directive entails the revision of annual and consolidated financial statements and is also defined in the same way in the Council Regulation on the Statute of the European Cooperative. This means a mandatory audit carried out every year, not an audit after which the accounts are unaudited every other year, as has been regulated by our cooperative law so far. Secondly, the concept of the cooperative relationship-audit-cooperation and the concept of the emerging recent practice gives rise to serious and reasonable doubts as to the requirement of the independence of the statutory auditors. Following the recital in the preamble to the directive, there are cases of threats to the independence of the auditor of direct or indirect interest for the audited entity. According to the Ministry of Finance, which also comes from the time of the mandate of Minister Andre Bajuk, it cannot be concluded that a cooperative relationship would be independent in the implementation of audits, as it creates a fairly dependent relationship with cooperatives with many activities. According to the Cooperation and Practice Act, the Association of Slovenia carries out a number of other tasks for its members, in addition to the recent review, it advises them professionally, gives them different types of assistance, represents them in chambers and in front of state authorities and so on. At the very least, we can all come to the conclusion that there is no guarantee of the independence of the joint auditors, which has been abolished. Finally, I would like to point out once again the fact that the greatest interest, that the audit should be carried out independently, impartially and in accordance with the rules of auditing, should have the right of cooperatives themselves. There are 500 in Slovenia, of which there are only 135 agricultural and only half members of the Association of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u154	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Say hello again to colleagues, colleagues and gentlemen, ministers! In general, the Group of Social Democrats will support the Committee's decision that the law is not suitable for further consideration. The fundamental reason is that, in our opinion, it is necessary, if possible, to judge those who are most qualified for this, and we can certainly find such people in our government, that the revision law is first amended, and that if this amendment is adopted and the revision is also possible within the framework of the Association of Slovenia, then it makes sense that the cooperative law is also being amended. Otherwise, I would like to say that it is not a problem that already, I think, for the third time, the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act has been introduced, which is due to return last year's cancelled possibility of auditing from the State of the Association of Slovenia for Cooperatives, due to the fact that this has been submitted by the People's Party in order to understand each other correctly. It is more about the idea that the independence, integrity, transparency of the audit carried out by the Association of Slovenia for Cooperatives is, however, on the question that this could also raise in Slovenia the issue of trust in the audits carried out by the cooperative relationship. For this reason, we believe that it would be best for the Association of Slovenia to set up a cooperative-owned company with people working within this cooperative association in the field of audit, who could carry out audits as an independent legal person, which are mandatory, while the optional audits may also work together. The mandatory audits are those on, I will say, in the business field, in particular in the area of borrowing credits, carrying out investments, etc. they provide a firm guarantee to business partners that they are a credible and secure partner in individual business. That is why we believe in the Group of Social Democrats that it is better not to support this law, which is under consideration today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr Rado Likar has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The substance of the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act is the re-entry into the law of the section on joint audit, which was deleted by amendment last year. The need for a joint audit is reflected in the fact that this audit has been adapted to the specificities which the cooperatives have and that the auditors have had specialized knowledge that is linked to these specificities. While the Government argued against the discrepancy between the audit law of 2008, which provides that audit services can only be performed by an audit firm organised as an economic company by law governed by an economic company and has the current authorisation of the Slovenian Audit Institute for the provision of audit services or, as an authorised auditor, which provides audit services independently as an individual undertaking and has the current authorisation of the Institute for the provision of audit services, it is said that the independent auditor. As an argument against it, the Government also cited the lack of independence of the cooperative in carrying out the statutory audit, since cooperatives can be associated with ownership and can also be linked to direct or direct financial interest. It should be noted that the proposal for a law no longer provides for compulsory membership of cooperatives with non-separable assets in a cooperative relationship and that any cooperative is left free choice between audit firms with regard to the implementation of the audit. In this regard, the question was also raised whether the regulation of a joint audit into a auditing law as a system law in the field of auditing or in a sectoral regulation such as a cooperative law. Referring to the European Directive, it is the view of the proposal that it governs only mandatory audits of financial statements, while domestic legislation makes this much broader. This is how Directive 2006/43 of the European Council regulates the revision of only European cooperatives and those whose audit is mandatory. However, Slovenia is much stricter and allows the provision of audit services only to audit companies and independent entrepreneurs to individuals authorised by the audit institute, and not to the cooperative relationship which it has been able to provide under the previous law. In our opinion, the suspension of the provisions on joint audit would distort the protection of non-segregated cooperative property and will have a negative impact on the development of cooperatives in Slovenia without an equivalent external control system for all cooperatives in the long term. The conclusion that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration will not be supported in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u158	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group, we do not really agree with the recasting of the cooperative law, which would re-enter into the law a chapter on joint audit, which was deleted by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Cooperatives Act last year. We believe that the proposed changes would be inconsistent with the audit law and that the impartiality of the auditor would be compromised. Article 5 of the Audit Act provides that audit services can only be provided by an independent audit firm and that the concept of an audit company is clearly defined in Article 10(3) of that Act. There is doubts that the joint audit relationship would be independent in the implementation of mandatory audits, as it is too involved in the operation of cooperatives with many activities. The proposed amendment of the law would also be contrary to the provisions of Directive 2006/43/EC, which specifically emphasises the independence and impartiality of the auditor and the audit firm. The Directive precisely lays down the conditions for the performance of the audit service. However, conditions include the provision that the audit firm shall be authorised by the Member State requesting a mandatory audit. On the basis of that directive, however, the cooperative relationship lost the status of the audit company because it did not meet the conditions laid down by the Directive and the law for audit companies. As an example of a threat to the independence of the statutory auditor or audit firm, the Directive specifies in particular the direct or indirect financial interest of the audited undertaking or cooperative. Our view is that in this case the financial interest may be clearly expressed and that this interest would jeopardise the impartiality of the auditors. Indeed, in the Group of Members, we believe that by adopting the amendments to the law before us, there would be a lack of consistency between the two laws and the directive, which would also be legally unacceptable. For these reasons, we disagree with the amendments to the law and defend the view that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General with co-workers. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will not support the Committee's decision that the proposed law is not suitable for further consideration. At the same time, we believe that everyone should be more aware of the specificities of cooperatives as legal persons, since they have a membership in cooperatives, management, capital and business, their own farm, business or businesses. This also leads to greater material risks than other companies. With the volatility of membership and core capital, the revision was precisely the means to reduce these risks. After all, in neighbouring countries, following the example of our corporate administration, they consider a joint audit as the fourth body of the cooperative and we have abolished it. It is also interesting that when the last amendment to the Cooperatives Act was adopted, when the Slovenian People's Party's Group proposed amendments to prevent the termination of the joint audit, it was repeatedly said that amendments could not be supported because they did not comply with the Audit Act. Therefore, this time in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, together with the amendments to the Cooperatives Act, we have also proposed amendments to the Audit Act, which would allow for joint revision. However, this is still not enough and there are still arguments of non-compliance with the Auditing Act. Finally, all I can say is that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we had a good intention to regulate an area and that with the proposed solutions for the adoption of the last amendment to the Cooperatives Act you also agreed in coalition parties. Unfortunately, on the Committee and today, again in the foreground, there are unfounded arguments against, on which we are disappointed in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. In the DeSUS Group, we will not support the proposal for a new cooperative law. According to our assessment, this is a law which, if adopted, would result in two laws being inconsistent between this law and the Law on Auditing, since this proposal reintroduces a chapter on peer review, which is legally inadmissible. We agree with the Government's view that the proposed law cannot introduce a joint audit within the meaning of an independent joint audit under the Audit Act, as this would be contrary to European directives. The fact is that the individual provisions of Directive 2006/43/EC stress in particular the independence and impartiality of the statutory auditor and the audit firm, that the audit firm must have the authorisation of the competent authority to carry out audits and that the statutory auditors or audit firms which are authorised by the Member State requiring a mandatory audit may carry out the statutory audit. By implementing the amendment to the Audit Act, which transposed the Directive into the Slovenian legal order, the Joint Undertaking lost the status of the audit company because it does not meet the conditions laid down by the Directive and the law for audit companies. It is therefore not possible to conclude that the Cooperative Relationship would be independent in the implementation of mandatory audits, as it creates a fairly dependent relationship with cooperatives with a number of activities. Such activities, in addition to the audit, include: professional, economic and technical advice and administrative assistance, representation of the interests of the association vis-à-vis the public authorities, care for the education of members and cooperative workers, cooperation in the preparation of regulations or measures relevant to the development of cooperatives, and other activities. In the 11th preambular paragraph, the Directive sets out, in particular, the direct or indirect financial interest of the audited entity and the provision of additional non-audit-related services as an example of a threat to the independence of the statutory auditor or audit firm. The auditing law also explicitly excludes the possibility of audit services being provided by the audit cooperative. As the law provides that audit services can only be provided by an audit company, which is not a cooperative relationship under the definition of "audit society". If we allow the law to allow the possibility that audit services may be provided by another audit cooperative, which is not an economic company or an independent entrepreneur, but a cooperative, the Auditing Act does not allow such a possibility, because it provides that the audit services can only be provided by an economic company under the Company Act or by an authorised auditor as an individual undertaking, the Republic of Slovenia would not be able to comply with two laws on the same issue, which is legally inadmissible in accordance with the principle of mutual harmonisation of laws and the legal security of entities involved in audit procedures. Such non-compliance with the two laws would also constitute a violation of the general provision of Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides that Slovenia is a rule of law. Therefore, as we say, we will not support this amendment in the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u163	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In line with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on the proposal for a decision tomorrow, 20. 5. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY - FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE LEGISLATION ON THE REFERENCE OF THE CAPITAL SOCIETY OF THE LEAVING AND INJURY SOCIETY, THE TRANSLATION OF RIGHTS AND THE OBJECTIVES OF THE WORLD AND THE MANAGEMENT OF THE SLOVENIAN INJURY SOCIETY, AND THE INVESTIGATION POLICY OF THE CAPITAL AND INVIDENTIAL INSTRUCTION SOCIETY, THE RURAL PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 30 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mr. Minister of Finance Dr. Franz Cross, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly present the foundations on which the Act on the Conversion of the Capital Society, the Slovenian Compensation Society and the transfer of the DSU to the Slovenian Compensation Society is based. The aim of the law is to enable the effective pursuit of the interests of the Republic of Slovenia without prejudice to the rights of those protected by the Kad and the Court of Justice, namely, the beneficiaries of the pension fund and the beneficiaries of the denationalisation of these procedures. These interests are fully protected. At the same time, the aim is to ensure the efficient management of companies in the direct and indirect ownership of the Republic of Slovenia. This law covers the policy of direct and indirect management of state-owned enterprises, which began with the adoption of the Capital Investment Management Act. The State authority responsible for managing the capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia will, on behalf of and on behalf of Kad and the Court of Justice, apply ownership entitlements in companies that will be defined as strategic; these companies will define the national assembly. And in investments where Kad and the Court do, even if the National Assembly does not define it as strategic, the total share of which exceeds EUR 40 million. The acquisition of new investments will be limited to 5% of investors in a given company, making it possible for Kad and the Court in new companies to be only a portfolio investor; this was one of the OECD conditions. The law regulates the transformation of Kad by way of an articulation, i.e. by setting up a new company, it is an insurance company. The breakdown will be done by transferring individual parts of Kad's assets to a new company, an insurance company. This newly established insurance company will be formed as a share company whose sole founder and shareholder will be Kad, is said to be owned by Kad. The insurance undertaking will carry out an insurance activity in accordance with the Insurance Act, which also provides for the possibility of managing pension funds. From the date of entry into the Court Register, the management of the First Pension Fund, the First Pension Fund, the Mutual Pension Fund for Public Servants and the Capital Mutual Pension Fund shall be transferred to the Insurance Fund. The basic capital of the insurance undertaking will be at least EUR 152 million. The insurance company will be the legal successor to the rights and obligations of the transferred part of Kad, with rights and obligations being precisely defined by the distribution plan. The insurance undertaking shall take over all the rights and obligations arising from the transferred part to be determined by the distribution plan by way of an inclusion. If an investment is transferred to the insurance undertaking, which will be defined as strategic in accordance with the decision of your High Council, it will be the responsibility of the State authority to manage it, the Agency for the management of the State’s capital shares shall be called the Authority. The law also lays down the obligation for the insurance undertaking to notify, within six months of the transfer of the management of pension funds, all insurance undertakings that are members of the pension funds referred to above, at the time of the entry into force of the law and also employers with which it has concluded contracts for the financing of pension plans. The fund managed by Kad, and this is the Fund for Mandatory Additional Pension Insurance, will remain in Kad because its regulation is part of the problem that will be addressed by pension reform. The law on the conversion of Kad, the Court of Justice and the accession of the DSU to the Court of Justice also provides that Kad is required to devote EUR 50 million annually to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, which imposes a long-term obligation on Kaduz to ensure from the management of funds, either as a cost or as a transfer of part of the profits. The second objective of the law, in addition to the transformation and management of Kad and Sod, is also to transfer the rights and powers of DSU in the area of the property transformation of social property, privatisation and denationalisation and the related assets of DSU. This will be transferred to the Court in order to transfer the management rights and obligations arising from the denationalisation procedures, while the rights to the real estate fund will be transferred to the newly established real estate agency. The law also provides for the way rights are enforced and the way in which rights are made available [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] by their investments and rules on the acquisition of new rights and shares. [[...]] I think it is an outstanding example of modernising governance with state-owned enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u165	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Borut Saiovic, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Greetings to the Minister and co-workers! At the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we are aware that in Slovenia the time has come for the formation of parastatal funds, this is Kada and Soda. This is because two extremely important state institutions have been set up for their own purpose because the mission of one of these funds is definitely slowly running out. It is a simple fact that the conversion of Kada, Soda and DSU must be approached in terms of better investment management and real estate or property owned by them. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we therefore support the Ministry's efforts to reshape these two funds and the DSU with the aim of a clearer and more efficient management. We are also thinking in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club and we are being asked some important questions in the draft law, such as, for example, which models of transformation have been examined by the Ministry and the Government, that they have opted for complicated solutions. It also raises an open question as to whether the concept of law and solutions is the one that provides the best model of transformation. It is also important to answer the question whether the creation of a new insurance company is the most appropriate solution for the execution of as many as four pension funds: the First Pension Fund, the First Pension Fund, the Mutual Pension Fund for Public Servants and the Capital Mutual Pension Fund. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we agree with the Ministry's direction that Kad and the Court become truly portfolio investors and carry out and manage the functions for which they are established. For in the past, not so far back, we have witnessed the fact that it was through the funds that it was implemented a certain, not the most effective economic policy, not to mention a variety of contentious acts, from which we want to draw above all from bad practices, and never to repeat them again. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia further supports efforts to make sense and properly regulate the relationship of Kad to the commitment from the SPIZ. For also in the light of pension reform, the role of Kada for the financing of the pension system should be defined optimally. This seems to us to be extremely important and necessary to arrange for the system to be provided with funds and security. In reshaping the Court, at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are pursuing the goal of ensuring that this fund is managed so efficiently that it will not be necessary to provide additional funds to the Republic of Slovenia to the extent possible. In reshaping DSU, however, we consider that rationalisation and transfer of management to a specific body that can manage the country's immovable property economically. At the same time, we appeal to the applicants to prepare, within as short a time as possible, appropriate grounds to allow such a transformation to take place. We will therefore support in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia all proposals that will follow the objective of transparent, efficient and cost-effective investment management owned by these institutions. We will support the proposed law at first reading, but we will follow the debate very closely, and on the basis of this, we will draw up final or final positions. Above all, our basic message is that we will insist on finding and legislating solutions that will be as low-interested as possible and, on the other hand, must ensure the cost-effective management of assets and thus achieve the greatest possible profitability, ensuring the security and profitability of pension funds and the sustainable financial situation of pension funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Ms Breda Pečan will give her views on the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the minister and his associates! I apologize for the fact that the position of the Social Democrats' Group towards this law has been somewhat long, but we felt that this is actually one of the key laws, together with the State Capital Investment Management Act, which will in some way clarify the concept of what we want or rather say how we want to manage public property, with the property of the State, and, I will say, with a para-state fund such as the Pension and Disability Insurance Fund, which has its assets built in the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance. With the Act on the Transformation of Kad, Soda and DSU, we want to ensure the efficient management of companies owned indirectly by the Republic of Slovenia. This law covers the policy of direct and indirect management of state-owned enterprises, which began with the adoption of the Capital Investment Management Act. The capital investment management agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which will, on behalf of and on behalf of the companies of the Capital Company and the Slovenian Compensation Company, enforce ownership entitlements in enterprises that will be defined as strategic and investment where Kad and the Court have a total share of more than EUR 40 million. The acquisition of new investments is limited to 5% of the share of the company, making it possible for Kad and the Court to be a portfolio investor in new companies. In the Group of Social Democrats, we understand the proposals for a general discussion of this law, as the solutions of the Capital Investment Management Act extend to the management of the country's specific investments owned by Kad and the Court. The logic behind the proposal for a general debate is that the state's property is an electoral booty, with which it would have had every authority at its discretion. The staffing of the boards of supervisors should be based only on a membership card. We do not support this in the Group of Social Democrats, because we believe that the direct impact of policy on businesses should be limited to direct and indirect state ownership. The management and supervision of state-owned enterprises must be based on the professional criteria and good practices of corporate governance of state-owned enterprises. Therefore, the amendments to the Capital Investment Management Act and the Law on the Transformation of Kad, Soda and DSU prevent this practice. The management of Kada and the Court's investments, which are defined as strategic, and investments whose book value exceeds 40 million, are thus transferred by law to the Capital Investment Management Agency. Under this law and the Capital Investment Management Act, the policy is limited in deciding on the sale of state property. The draft law on the conversion of Kad and Sod and DSU essentially interrupts the logic of the electoral prey of political parties. The law prevents decisions on sales in the cabinet of the President of the Government and ministers, as has been the case in the past. Examples of Mercator's sales, the Slovenian steel industry, and Iskra Emeco's sales of companies that came from, for example, in recent times came the day that came from Adria Ankaran, much said and should not be repeated. The restriction on the impact of the policy on the management of capital investments was even intended by the Advocate General to prevent a request for a referendum based on unjustified claims. If the claims were true, then the OECD would not allow us to become a full-fledged member of the OECD. If the Slovenian Democratic Party had succeeded in requesting a referendum, Slovenia would have been prevented from entering the OECD. This is of key importance during the recovery period of Slovenia's economy, as it will in particular benefit Slovenian companies that will gain confidence and reputation with Slovenia's membership in the OECD, especially outside the European Union, where we are not yet sufficiently recognised. The adoption of high standards in the field of international investment, guidelines for the operation of multinationals and guidelines against bribery in international transactions will make our companies more competitive and our country more attractive to foreign investors. If the lead party in the previous mandate were to succeed in abolishing the anti-corruption commission, Slovenia would not become a member of the OECD. Since the functioning of the OECD is based on the principles of corporate governance and the OECD Guidelines for the Management of State-owned Enterprises, its recommendations are also very important in the preparation of the country's capital investment legislation. The main purpose of the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia is thus to establish an investment management system based on the principle of efficiency, transparency, accountability and predictability without the influence of policies and individual stakeholders. This also takes into account the capital investment management decisions of the Kad and the Court of Justice which are transferred to the Capital Investment Agency. Because we want to prevent sales under the table that were made in Kad and the Court of Justice, the decision on the strategic investments that we want to keep under state ownership will be transferred to the Government and the National Assembly, where the greatest political consensus is reached. With regard to the sale of capital investments owned by Kad and Sod, it should also be pointed out that the powers of the Kad administration and the Court are newly more limited than they have been in the past. Under the Capital Investment Act, Kad and the Court will not be allowed to sell investments of strategic importance and investment whose book value exceeds EUR 40 million without the agreement of the Assembly, represented by the Capital Investment Agency. The law also lays down fixed liabilities to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance by the Capital Society. On the basis of the proposed restructuring of the Capital Company, this portfolio investor, whose task is to manage portfolio investments, will be to provide additional funding for the financing of the First Pension Pillar. In this way, only the demographic fund, which will provide additional funding for current pensions in fixed amounts, will play a role. The proposed fixed liability for a pension fund of EUR 50 million is logical, with a view to preventing overexploitation of funds from the Capital Society, since these funds could only be used for the current generation of pensioners and not for future generations. The law also regulates the transformation of the Capital Society by way of a breakdown, i.e. by setting up a new company. The exclusion will be done by transferring individual parts of the capital company's assets, the so-called transfer company, to a new company established for the purpose of exclusion. The law states that the basic capital of the insurance undertaking is at least EUR 125 million. The following pension funds are transferred to the insurance undertaking on the date of entry into the Court Register: the First Pension Fund, the First Pension Fund, the First Pension Fund, the Mutual Retirement Fund for Public Servants and the Capital Mutual Pension Fund. The insurance undertaking will be the legal successor to the rights and obligations of the transferred part of the Capital Company, with rights and obligations being precisely defined by the split plan. The insurance undertaking shall take over all the rights and obligations arising from the transferred part to be determined by the distribution plan by way of an inclusion. The split plan will also be established by the head office and the insurance company. If an investment is transferred to the insurance undertaking, which will be defined as strategic, it will be managed by an authorised State authority. This law also regulates the transformation of the Consulting and Management Society or so-called DSU. On the basis of this law, the rights and powers of DSU in the area of the property transformation of social property, privatisation and denationalisation and the related assets of DSU will be transferred to the Slovenian Compensation Society. The activity of the Slovenian Indemnity Company expires in 2016 when the last annuity from the bonds issued by that company falls into payment. By this time limit, all open procedures from the property transformation of companies led by the Consulting and Management Society, which are subject to the provisions of this Act, must also be completed. In doing so, the Group of Social Democrats asks whether all open procedures in the DSU can be completed until the end of the Slovenian Compensation Society. Otherwise, in the opinion of the Social Democrats Group, it would make sense to consider this law together with a law establishing a state agency dealing with the management of state property. In view of all the above, it should be noted that the adoption of the Act on the Transformation of the Capital, Slovenian Compensation Society and the Consulting and Management Society does not allow for privatisation. Under this law and the Capital Investment Management Act, we will only determine which investments cannot be sold and must remain owned directly or indirectly by the State. The previous government is 27. 6. 2006 confirmed the proposal to withdraw the State from companies in which the Republic of Slovenia has indirect ownership in companies via the Slovenian Compensation Company, d.d., Capital Companies of Pension and Disabled Insurance, d.d., with the addition that the ownership shares of those companies in which the Republic of Slovenia, the Slovenian Compensation Company and the Capital Society can be sold in a coordinated manner. The former government intended to privatize state property. On the basis of this decision, three investment groups have been identified. The first group of investments was a group of non-marketable investments with Kad and Sod, from which both companies would withdraw within 30 months, is said to be until the end of the mandate of the previous Government. The second group of investments is a group of market investments in which Kad and the Court would be only portfolio investors. A third group of investments for which the time limit of sales has not been established. For these investments, the sale proposal had to be correlated to the liabilities of the Capital Company and the Slovenian Compensation Company, the sale of other investments by the State and on the basis of favourable conditions for sale. The investments of the Capital Society and the Slovenian Indemnities Company included the Sava Insurance Office, Triglav, Zasobrovnica Sava, Telekom Slovenije, Nova Ljubljanska banka, Luka Koper. It is clear from all this that the previous government has determined a way of withdrawing from indirect investments by not having an investment that would not have been sold sooner or later. However, she did not have any priorities for direct investment. In view of the proposed withdrawal, in the previous mandate, from the Capital Company and the Slovenian Compensation Company, it is necessary to assess that the previous government did not have a strategy for asset management. It did not determine any investment which should remain state-owned. For the investments of the Capital Company and the Slovenian Indemnity Company, it has only set the withdrawal deadlines and only the objective of maximising the sales value which has not been realised - this has been demonstrated by the Court of Auditors' audit in Mercator's case of suspicion of State property damages. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that a state-owned company is not only for political recruitment, it is the wrong reason for state ownership. In the Social Democrats, we believe it is necessary to have a comprehensive strategy for capital investment. Sectoral policies, such as energy policy, will indicate the direction we want to ensure in achieving our strategic objectives. However, the capital investment management strategy must be designed in line with sectoral policies. The objective of the strategy is to determine the proportion of the country and in which undertakings are needed to achieve this objective. In our view, this cannot be achieved through the sale of assets. The Act on the Conversion of the Capital Company, the Slovenian Compensation Company and the Consulting and Management Society provides that it is not possible to sell the country's strategic investments. We therefore wonder what the former government and its leading party wanted to achieve through the sale of Mercator. What was the purpose of selling Iskraemec? More 100 jobs have been cancelled here lately. The production of the most competitive products has moved to Egypt. What was the objective of the sale of the Slovenian steel industry? During the previous term of office, the National Assembly did not have any information on the reasons for the sale of investments, nor did it decide on the sale of investments by the Capital Company and the Slovenian Compensation Company, which are owned by the State and not by the Government, by the Government, which was a bad asset manager. We want to cut this Gordy knot off from the Social Democrats, so a professional capital investment agency is being set up to manage strategic investments and exercise shareholders' rights. This must not be left to the ministers, regardless of all respect for them. For this reason, the Social Democrats Group will support the Capital Investment Act. Of course, we are prepared to take into account comments on certain shortcomings and to improve the law on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been informed of what is happening before the National Assembly. I can say I condemn vandalism on behalf of all of us. Since it is impossible for our services to monitor our meeting, the technical services, so far, I am interrupting for 10 minutes, so that I can make sure that our future work can continue smoothly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u170	Dear Members and Members! We're continuing our session. They told me that there are no obstacles to our work and that everything is technically taken care of, so we can continue. Mr Zvonko Černač has the floor, on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! The technical conditions for the continuation of the sitting may be met but the substantive conditions are not met. So obviously the attention is bigger outside than here, in the hall. So by content, I don't see any special [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u172	Mr. Chernač, please, let's talk about the agenda item, no comments.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u173	Any particular point in talking about the matter, which is very important. [[...]] Regardless, the decision you made is the decision of the leadership of the National Assembly. However, at the point we are talking about, and in all the others we are talking about in the National Assembly, it is very important that we base our decisions and discussions on what the real problems of this society are, and we also solve them through the adoption of legislation. The law we have today on the table I fear - and in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we share a unified opinion - that it also does not come from a proper assessment of the actual situation. And if it is adopted as it is pledged, it will cause again, as will many other laws adopted by the National Assembly in this mandate, dissatisfaction and excitement among individual stakeholders, or in this particular case, in those who are Tangled by the management of state assets and the effectiveness of this management. The National Assembly had recently adopted a first step on this path with regard to more efficient governance of state property, and we have adopted a law establishing an Agency for the Management of State Property. We're kind of in step two now. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we are missing the comprehensive approach of Vada, a strategic direction from which it would be clear, how and how the future management of assets belonging to all citizens and citizens will be ensured, and which each authority receives only for effective and responsible management and nothing more. The attempts we have seen in this mandate, notably by setting up a State Investment Management Agency, and all the other steps and attempts that are taking place, make it feel that this is not the primary objective, but that the primary objective is to relax those mechanisms that prevent us from reaching the third phase of privatisation so that those dedicated elites waiting for this opportunity will be able to reach state property in the easiest and most valuable way. For this reason, we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that the law that was passed and against which the veto was tabled should be amended and we have not been heard. And the continuation of these inappropriate solutions is also this law that we have on the table today. The ruling coalition has set itself a number of objectives in the coalition contract for this mandate. One of these objectives is to read: "The coalition partners will strengthen transparency and unification of the governance of the financial and immovable and movable property of the country as a condition for the effective performance of the functions of the country. In the management of the assets, we will pay particular attention to the management of the funds of ransoms," you wrote, "which we will try to channel to a special fund and ensure that, like debt management, it will be transparent and that we will effectively manage the risk and comply with all the disclosure rules." And with regard to When you sign up to reshape it so that you can organize the asset management with a view to providing funds for the pension fund separately, by ensuring one of the expertise and autonomy of the management of the state property. The property of this new organization, you have written down that you will transfer from the country to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, or you do this as a special Capital Fund, which will be separated from the current balance sheet of the STIZ and so on. You didn't do it, even more. In the law adopted prior to this meeting, in the Law on the Capital Investment Management Agency, you even deleted the Article of the ZPIZ which spoke about this agreement. You shut it down. You suspended this fund with the Capital Investment Management Agency Act. And that portion of the Triglav Insurance Company, which was through a referendum dedicated to the ZPIZ, you also transferred it to this agency. It means you're acting contrary to what you made two years ago in your coalition contract. So how can the opposition support solutions that run counter to your own commitments? We can't. For this reason, we have proposed that we finally reach these strategic orientations in this National Assembly, get them from A to Z, and then follow these steps by adopting legislation. Instead, you come with ever-new partial solutions, making the legislative procedure more difficult on the one hand, prolonging the procedures, giving rise to resentment and pressure on the opposition, if we hinder you on this path, but you are to blame for it yourself. I think you should finally sit down and talk to each other about whether the coalition agreement you signed two years ago is still the basis on which you operate or whether new guidelines are needed. And in this case you'll have to do one or the other. It was said that this law would also increase transparency in the management of this property, unification and so on. None of this is going to happen. We already have Kad, we have the Court, we have the Consulting and Management Society - the DSU and a bunch of institutions that were then established by these institutions. We now have this new capital investment management agency, and now from this point of view, when you're categorizing that part that relates to pension funds, and it also establishes an insurance company and you're transferring part of the assets of the DSU to the Court, and then you're planning a part later on to the new agency that's going to be managing the real estate of the country. In short, there will be a bunch of para-state institutions here with directors, administrations, supervisory councils, and I don't know what else. And how in this system, say, some octopus, will this property management be transparent, how will maximum effects be achieved? Very difficult. I think that this way, and also this law that we have on the table today, is very far from transparent, cost-effective and efficient management of state property, and it is not in the interest of those groups that we adopt such laws, not in the interest of pensioners, not in the interest of those public servants who pay in these funds all the time, not in the interest of this country. Above all, it is in the interest of those who wish to acquire individual shares through non-transparent procedures. Only in the interests of those may it be a law that does not allow transparency in the management of this property. There have also been mistakes in this area in the past, and no one denies them. And it is necessary to draw experience from such mistakes and to propose and adopt better solutions. However, those errors that some of you have mentioned here today as errors and even cited distorted data, if the Mercator sales audit found that damage to state property was suspected, this is not true, nor is it true that a company called General Navigation was sold in a non-transparent and poor manner. If any company in that country was sold in such a way that the maximum purchase was reached, then it was this company. Not only were the bids, the negotiations, but even the auction was after the negotiations on the basis of which the price was maximised. However, it is true that probably one interested group was not the chosen buyer who offered the most. And if this interest group then had a certain lobbyistic impact on individual state-level institutions, they can read things like they read, but go look at the numbers and you will see, because in that case the state concentrated individual shares and came, if over 50 and 25 plus 1%, which is very important, it could have survived significantly more than if individual Kad, the Court, the Ministry of Finance sold these shares themselves. And these are examples that say that it is possible to apply the criteria of efficiency and economy even if we do not have the legislative framework that everyone would like most. Now this bill on the transformation of Kad and so on, I must say that it is not written exactly in accordance with the provisions in force in the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set out very clearly what the bill must contain and one of the contents was also a comparative legal representation of the regulation in other legal systems, at least three, and the adaptation of the proposed regulation of European Union law. The proposal states that institutions such as Kad, Sud, DSU in other systems cannot be found, but it is not that other countries manage their assets, and it is not that they have such institutions or not, but how and how they do these things. In this case, we should be given a comparative legal review, as we have received when it comes to establishing a Capital Investment Management Agency. Among other things, the proposal also regulates the transformation of Kad by the inclusion of an insurance company as a share company and should be given information on whether such an arrangement could be contrary to the European Union Insurance Directive, the European Union's Directive on unfair competition and so on. We then read that the proposal of this law will have no financial implications for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and will have no financial implications for other public funds. That's not true. There are a number of provisions in the law that say that such consequences can arise, for example, we have a provision that says that if the resources of the Court are not sufficient to settle the obligations that the Court has under this and other laws to provide such funds to the Republic of Slovenia. And many other provisions speak of the financial implications of this law having significant consequences. Speaking of which, we're at the courthouse. We have already had a law in this mandate, which has been passed by you, which has provided the Court with €180 million of the State guarantee. Tomorrow we will consider a law that will provide him with an additional 300 million euros in state guarantees. Half a billion euros a year. These are all measures and ways, legislative procedures that show that the adoption and enforcement of legislation in this area is confusing and that obviously within the Government you are not coherent. It would be time for us to finally get a clear and transparent situation in the National Assembly and a clear and transparent way of how and how the government will proceed in the future unification of this system. This law, which was passed as an OECD ticket, will not in itself allow this to happen. This law provided a formal framework that gave us a green light and nothing else. And if that law were to say what we proposed, because it proved to be the most rational and quickest solution to easily manage all those investments, the Ministry of Finance would also get a green light. There in the comparative examination you showed that in this way, let's say, this is what Finland does. Someone has this, some country has this in the cabinet of the Prime Minister, etc. But we went or you went and you set up an agency and everything else that goes with it, about a million Euros of extra costs per year, and that's not even the biggest problem. The biggest problem is that this decision will be very far from the public and that all transactions up to 20 million will take place in a relatively narrow circle, because only over 20 million euros is the Government which gives consent for such a transaction. There are still a few things in this law that say that we don't really know what we are making a full decision about. We don't have a clear picture of the property being eliminated in this case. In particular, we do not have the answers to a number of professional questions that also arise in relation to individual solutions. I will, because these comments are huge, because of time I have said just a few of the most important things. If this law is passed and you will certainly do so, this law will allow the establishment of a new insurance company, the only founder will be Kad and through Kad will, of course, be owned directly by the State. At this point or if it does not explain, we do not know anything about this new insurance company, we do not know anything about the foundations of its business policy, we do not know anything about the individual insurance types in which the insurance undertaking will carry out insurance business and many other things that should be known before we decide on such exclusion. It is stated in the explanatory memorandum that Kad’s assets are not reduced by the creation of a new company, i.e. this insurance company. And why isn't it shrinking? According to the applicant, it is not diminishing due to the fact that the income generated by the insurance company will become Kad's assets. What's your point? Is there an evaluation? Is there a projection? They could be negative. One of the fundamental questions raised by this law is why an insurance company is being established. Why isn't a pension company being set up? Or you even wrote in your coalition contract that this fund would be under the SPIZ. You must have made a mistake at the time, but in such a case it should be at least a pension company which is a share company which must be authorised to carry out the activity of voluntary supplementary pension insurance in accordance with the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. We know what activities such a company can carry out: collecting premiums for voluntary pension insurance, managing the property of a pension company, paying pensions, managing closed and open mutual pension funds, etc. This is important because the pension company has to meet rather strict conditions and also some of the statutory staffing requirements. The Management Board shall have at least two members, the Supervisory Board shall be composed in such a way that at least one third of the members appointed on the proposal of the pension insurers are appointed. Insurers have an important impact on the adoption of the investment policy of the business development strategy and are also given a supervisory role. These are also questions raised by those who are concerned about the safety of this isolated new insurance company. In Slovenia we currently have three pension companies, which have 155 thousand 490 insured persons at the end of March 2010. They manage over half a billion euros of their resources. And all these insurers are guaranteed transparency, supervision and specialisation of the operator. Why wouldn't that be the case? We also know the directives that speak about this area, which, in our view and our assessment, must be respected. Thus, Directive 2003/41 on the operation and supervision of professional pension providers provides that, in order to protect the interests of members and beneficiaries of supplementary pension providers, no other activity may be managed. Therefore, it is not possible to find some specific reasons why it is not more rational, more economical, more justifiable reason for establishing a pension society. We have read from the explanation of the law that the basic capital at the time of the establishment of this excluded insurance company should be at least EUR 152 million. This provision is not good. I think that, at the time of adoption, it must be clear how much the basic capital will be, if not, we accept something that is unclear about which, at the time of adoption of the law, we do not know what they are or what they are. The question of whether this capital can in itself ensure the success of the insurance undertaking. The applicant will, of course, have to explain all these issues that arise and all these dilemmas that arise in that law. A number of these issues, which should have been more reasoned at this stage when the law came into the first legislative procedure. The explanation in this law is, I must say, very modest, and even by our assessment, it does not allow for the normal treatment of the law in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In one part this law also applies to the Consulting and Management Society, the DSU, where apparently the Government has decided to find some very interesting solution. In one of the decisions in the past, the Court of Auditors found that this company should be abolished, then it was decided that because it has obligations which cannot be settled in such a short time that this company continues its work, but now the Government is deciding, despite all the fact that one part of the assets will be transferred to the Court of Justice and one part to this new real estate management agency, which I do not know what it will do and how who will be employed there. Now, some ministers or ministers have good references to real estate intermediaries, but I doubt that they will be doing this activity in this society, because payment would be too small in view of the activities that are taking place at this time. There is no valid reason why this should be done. By the way, this DSU, this Consulting and Management Company, which you see as 100% owned by the country, is the company that owns the facility that was intended for the police or will become the owner when the financial transaction for financing this facility is completed, and this will end with the payment of the last lease, would end if this deal were to be completed but not done. Instead of this state society, the Minister of the Interior first tried to offer a private building to the prosecution, as we heard last year, that was last July, and then, when it failed, the relocation of the National Investigation Office took place. And the same business that the Minister of the Interior is doing in this building, only that money goes into private pockets, is being financed in the same way through the DSU for the Litostroski police, where there will now obviously be a ILO, only to go into state pockets with this money. It is said that the State itself is paying off a lease or loan for the construction of this facility. Well, by the way, I hope that here, however, it will be clear when this DSU, which owns 100 % of the country, will finally formally move into the balance sheet of state assets. I hope that it will not be necessary to reintroduce these things in such a plastic manner as was the last time in the National Assembly, Comrade Gorenak. In short, in this law there is a whole series of ambiguities that tell us that the error of the law would be adopted in the form that we have on the table today. For this reason, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we believe that this law should be rejected and come with a new solution. And before you come with a new solution, you should come to the National Assembly with a comprehensive concept and the National Assembly to make it clear whether the ruling coalition is still on what it signed in the coalition contract or not. And if there is no, how and in what way and why changes have taken place and how these changes in future legislative procedures will be implemented in the National Assembly. One of the key answers should be why this change in the management of funds, which are aimed primarily at pensioners in the long term and at ensuring the stability of the pension fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u174	Mr Aloj Potočnik has the floor, on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u175	Thank you. Honourable Presidents, representatives of the Government, Members and Members of Parliament! The objectives of the law on the management of the capital investments of the State and the transformation of the Capital Society and the Slovenian Compensation Society, which we are considering today at first reading, were clear at the outset. The need for the formation or adoption of both laws has also triggered the entry or membership of Slovenia into the OECD. This is exactly what it has instructed Member States to regulate the management of state ownership. Neither of the two laws in the OECD explicitly requires that they leave implementation to the countries themselves, as each Member State has to determine what the best management model is for it, and it is essential that it is transparent governance of state ownership. In the Group of Members, we have always felt that the law on the management of the State's capital investments and the law on the transformation of Kad and the Court should be adopted at the same time. The first law confers powers on the new State Capital Investment Management Agency and the second gives them to Kadu and the Court. In the Group of Members, we are pleased that the Minister of Finance has listened and that the issue of privatisation or sale of state property is separate from the question of the conversion of Kada and Soda. In this time frame, speeding with sales would not make sense, as this would lead to poor or forced solutions. The issue of the withdrawal of the country from the economy is unlikely to make sense at this time. The identification of strategic investments and the share of the Republic of Slovenia in a company required to protect the strategic objectives of the Republic of Slovenia should be determined in the capital investment management strategy to be prepared by the Slovenian Capital Investment Management Agency on the basis of sectoral policies, in coordination with the ministries responsible for the administration of sectoral policies. The strategy will be adopted by the National Assembly on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Group of Members, we really prefer the objective of transparent management of state property to the goal of withdrawing the country from the economy. And the latter demands, we think and expect, will be satisfied in the bill, so we also support the bill. However, as regards the remaining objectives and purposes of the bill, this is the management of pension funds and the provision of additional funds for pension and disability insurance, and we are aware that solutions are the product of social dialogue and are therefore designed primarily and pragmatically. Some, however, tell them that they do not comply with the coalition contract and are not oriented in the long term. It is our view, however, that the issue of the management of pension funds is more of a matter and, above all, a matter of social dialogue with trade unions and the Alliance of Retired Associations than has been determined by coalition treaties. And here we need to find compromise solutions. With regard to the provision of additional funds for pension and disability insurance or pension allowance, in the law-formed solutions are sufficient for their purpose at this time, but we agree that alternative solutions should also be considered in this regard, but at this stage of consideration we do not think it is appropriate to discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Radovan Žerjav, on behalf of the SLS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The introduction of the proposed law states that the aim of the law is to enable the effective pursuit of the objectives of the Republic of Slovenia without prejudice to the interests of the beneficiaries currently protected by Kad and the Court of Justice and to ensure the effective conduct of companies in the indirect own Republic of Slovenia. This law covers the policy of corporate governance in state, direct and indirect ownership, which began with the adoption of the Capital Investment Act. The State authority responsible for carrying out capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia will, on behalf of and on behalf of Kad and the Court of Justice, enforce property justifications in companies to be defined as strategic and investments where Kad and the Court have a total share of more than EUR 40 million. The acquisition of new investments is limited to 5% of the share of the company, making it possible for Kad and the Court in new companies to be only portfolio investors. Much has already been said about the issue of the management of State property when adopting the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia, as the proposed law constitutes the consequence or more necessary regulation in accordance with the law already adopted. It is interesting, however, that the same law also regulates the transfer of the rights and powers of the DSU, the consultancy and management company d.o.o., from the property transformation of social property, privatisation and denationalisation and the related assets of DSU to the Sod. This, according to the Government, is the first step towards abolishing DSU. It is obvious from the outset that the public powers in the area of privatisation and denationalisation exercised by the DSU do not belong to the matter governed by the delegated law. Perhaps it would be advisable to abolish or unite all three companies, Kad, Sod and DSU. The important thing is that we know what we can gain or what we can lose. The mere transfer of powers and tasks between these companies, in order to make it appear that something is being done, makes no sense, even if it can cause greater damage to the state property, which I will talk about below. The Court of Auditors also prepared an audit report on the suspension of the DSU liquidation procedure in 2007. The Court of Auditors has requested the Government to submit a response report and to analyse the current and transitional implementation of the tasks carried out by the DSU. It may seem at first sight that my debate does not refer to the substance of this law, but that is not the case. Why? The Court of Auditors in a post-revision report in a part where it assesses the remedial actions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, inter alia, writes: "The Ministry of Finance's described, corrected actions are partially satisfactory, as the analysis contains basic data on the operation of the DSU, the Court of Justice and Kad, which may be the basis for further analysis. However, the analysis did not include SID data, nor did it contain a presentation of the advantages and disadvantages of pooling tasks with these operators. We estimate that, within the time frame for the preparation of the response report, the Ministry of Finance has not carried out all the necessary activities, i.e. comparing the different ways of organising management with real and financial assets and identifying the advantages and weaknesses and costs of individual solutions. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia was therefore unable to make an appropriate decision on the proposed solutions to rationalising asset management and to adopt an appropriate decision." End of quote from the Court of Auditors. I can conclude from this, even in the light of the above-mentioned meeting of the Committee on Finance, that there has been no real analysis. As we read the law that we are currently discussing, we see that the proposal for a law should have no financial implications for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Nor should the bill have any financial implications for other public funds. This raises a reasonable question as to whether this is true or whether this claim is based on an analysis, or whether it is simply a fact that the interest in the changes brought by law, i.e. the transfer of part of the activities of the DSU to the Court, is so great that the applicants, taking into account the currently poor state of public finances, have written that there are no financial consequences. For I believe that the law will at least have financial implications in this part. On the basis of the law on the use of funds derived from purchases under the Law on the Property Conversion of Enterprises and on the basis of the law on the completion of ownership, the DSU must quarterly indicate the funds derived from the purchases into the budget. These funds are even earmarked and are shared by the Ministry of Economy, the Environmental Development Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, the Fund for the Promotion of Regional Development and the Preservation of the Settlement of the Slovenian Rural and the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for the Development of a Small Economy, in accordance with the provisions of the law. We anticipated that the Court of First Instance would share the purchase in the same way as the DSU, but the proposed law, contrary to the introductory reasoning, stated that the assets transferred to the Court of Justice were used by the Court for the purposes of settling the obligations of beneficiaries under the Denationalisation Act, the Cooperatives Act and other rules governing the denationalisation of assets and other obligations resulting from the settlement of those legal obligations. Even if we look at these few million euros a year. Surprisingly, the fact that the introductory explanation states, I quote: "because the provisions of this Act will give rise to all the rights and powers of the DSU and the related assets, which are otherwise subject to the provisions of the laws and regulations resulting from the property transformation of social property, privatisation and denationalisation, thus ending the process of the property transformation of enterprises.".. End of quote. In doing so, the applicant shall note without difficulty that the activities of the Court of Justice are to expire in 2016 and that all open procedures from the property transformation of the companies led by DSU are to be completed by that date and are to be transferred to the Court of Justice under the provisions of this Act. The finding that the transfer of the rights and powers of the DSU to the Court of Justice and the related assets are ending the process of the property transformation of the companies is wrong. That process was completed by the implementation of the law on the closure of the ownership and privatisation of legal persons owned by the Slovenian Development Society. This law has also regulated the transfer of social property to the DSU, which should be owned in accordance with legislation, but is not. And right here, in our view, is the main problem of the proposed solution. The DSU shall each year disclose new assets that have not been owned in accordance with the applicable legislation. To a large extent it is property that has not been owned and is located either in Slovenia or in the countries of the former Yugoslavia. Slovenia has made a major mistake in land-book legislation by allowing automatic change in the right to use real estate by former social enterprises to own new companies from these social enterprises without checking whether these properties were actually owned. Although certain real estates have been excluded from the transformation due to denationalisation claims at the time of the property conversion. Others, however, have not even been included in the property transformation or explicitly excluded, at least in some cases perhaps even intentionally. All these real estates under the current legislation belong to the DSU, either because of disputes between owners bought from companies, the purchase goes to the Republic of Slovenia as a whole in these cases, or in cases where the entry of ownership rights in the countries of the former Yugoslavia requires a DSU certificate that indicates that the property was owned in accordance with Slovenian law. It is not possible to completely eliminate the feeling that the interest after the liquidation of the DSU or transfers is of particular interest to those who have passed the proper ownership process and have hoped that their assets will remain after the closure of the Slovenian Development Company and now after the termination of the DSU. In addition, there is a whole series of cases at the stage of litigation. The proposed law cannot state that all the proceedings initiated will be completed by the end of 2016, which is why it is not necessary for the Court to cease to exist on that date or otherwise, if the Court ceases to exist, we will decide between two in 2016: whether a new company is re-established or a new company is transferred to a new company or whether the Republic of Slovenia gives up everything that was not owned in accordance with the applicable legislation. Now this asset receives the DSU, which, as has already been said, buys at the time of the sale of this property fully indicates the budgets and partly to Kadu and to the Court. Accordingly, assets which have not been privatised under the applicable law are owned by the DSU under the law. However, the fact is that this property is not fully recorded in the opposite direction. If we assume that the Court will terminate in 2016, taking into account the proposal for a law, this means that the Republic of Slovenia is giving up certain assets which would have been determined after 2016 and which could consequently be unduly retained by individuals and companies which have not owned them in accordance with the applicable legislation. So they got him illegally. I think there's something else that's important. As it is known, DSU and DSU-removable have merged and now DSU is a buyer of a well-known C facility to which the Ministry of Interior is to first move. We discussed this a lot in the Minister's interpretation, so I would not like to get out of today's topic. However, I am asking a serious question whether the Government, as owner of the DSU, has taken into account the fact that, when transferring the assets of the DSU, it will be impoverished, that it will have less assets and, as such, it is unlikely that it will be able to obtain credit for the completion of this facility, in which its assets are already invested. If I recall correctly, it is about €45 million in additional funds. So what if DSU can't get a loan? Will the government provide these funds? Probably not, since in this case this law should at least indirectly have financial implications for the budget or the government has not thought about it. It is simply not possible to shake the feeling that the law is ready quickly and that its solutions at least in the work I have touched in this opinion are inconsequential. It is possible that two, whether the law of the Government in the part of the DSU wanted to prepare as soon as possible, because because of the complexity of the matter, it was not possible to do a good analysis that might show that the more meaningful association between the Soda and Kado or the DSU and Kad or Kad is simply about the interests of individuals who want to preserve the property that they have come to is unjustifiable. And if we adopt this law ad hocly, we'll soon receive new amendments. However, an even greater problem will be if we find, on the basis of subsequent analyses, that we have caused harm to the Republic of Slovenia by adopting this law. We therefore consider that the law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the law of discussion. We have before us a proposal for a law that is quite a time with the above-mentioned basic concept that tempts the spirits of such an expert, political and other public. Despite all the efforts of the proposer to harmonise the content of the matter with the expectations of all actors and to find optimal solutions at the same time to ensure an adequate and long-term secure policy of state-owned property management, it is more or less clear that the law will undergo many changes in the next stages of the legislative process. In particular, the DeSUS Group's assessment is that it is necessary, at least, to upgrade individual provisions in the sense that the law becomes more appropriate and clearer in some parts. The purpose of the law is to reshape the Kad and the Court and to transfer the rights and powers of the DSU to the Court with a view to its gradual abolition and completion of the process of the property transformation of enterprises. All these objectives are a reflection of the implementation of state-owned corporate governance policy, which has also led to adequate insurance for the interests of beneficiaries. When it comes to meeting the fundamental mission of a capital company, this is the management and management of the work of the former social property created by the retired generation today, and that part of the state property created by the active population today, it is particularly important to safeguard the interests of beneficiaries. In part, greater respect for the mission will be given to the Commission by means of a new agency and, in addition, by this law, should enable it to manage its assets more transparently and efficiently and in particular securely, directly owned and owned by the Republic of Slovenia. The latter will also be possible through a consistent organisational and financial separation of the basic assets of Kad from the property of pension funds of voluntary and compulsory supplementary insurance, which we welcome in the DeSUS Group. By reshaping When its key functions will be separated: long-term provision of additional funds for the pension fund and management of various forms of pension funds and payment of pension pensions. The proposed conversion thus provides for the sharing of these key functions in a way that additional pension funds, through the establishment of an insurance undertaking and the transfer of individual parts of Kad's assets and the transfer of all rights and obligations of the transferred part, will receive a basis for further development of supplementary pension insurance. The law also sets out the obligations that Kad to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, that is, up to the first pension pillar. In doing so, it has made it important to ensure that the assets from which the PPIZ is financed are not reduced. Also, according to our assessment on-the-spot assurance, which clearly indicates the fixed amount in respect of the insurance company’s establishment capital and that the existence of Kad’s assets is guaranteed, or it is necessary to clearly define the time and manner in which these assets are returned to Kad. The next thing we want to point out is the commitment made by Kad to ensure annually, now fixed, the level of PSIZ funds, and this would require a clear definition of the purpose of the funds to harmonise pension growth with wage growth. It follows from the proposal for a law on the allocation of revenue surpluses that the State, as the sole shareholder, will decide how the profit of Kad should be allocated: whether it will be paid or will remain in the Kad family. This should allow for higher profitability in the future. Our view is that any surplus income should be directly paid to the pension fund, as it is now, in the future, in particular in the light of the pension reform, that more resources are urgently needed for the normal and independent provision of funds for the current maintenance of pensions from the budget. If Kad stays, he must remain a guarantor to complete the pension fund. The property from the privatisation process must form the basis for the creation of additional pension insurance funds and must at the same time constitute an investment in the security of current and future generations of pensioners. Therefore, it would also be good to increase the influence of PPE through the supervisory function authorities on the management of this property and the business of Kad. Both the client and the DeSUS Group have always advocated that Kad's assets be owned and owned by the PPIZ, as the latter would certainly be more careful in managing the management and with the aim of creating additional funds for pension and disability insurance and would be a good guardian of the long-term stability and stability of the pension fund. Let us remind ourselves that all of this is also enshrined in the coalition contract. In the parliamentary group, we have assessed that although the bill can be supported for further consideration, we already know that this proposal will need to be modified in a number of ways, so in the process our Group will forward further concrete solutions, proposals for positive amendments to the final form of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u181	Thank you for saying that again. Third time today, greetings to colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! This is one of the five or six laws that we will consider today and a few tomorrow. And to be very honest, the very title of this marriage is that you have to think for a few minutes about knowing what it is. That is, the Act on the conversion of the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company, then the transfer of the rights and powers of the Consulting and Management Society, that is, the second, to the Court of Justice, and the third, investment policy of the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company and the Court. Why did I mention that this proposal is made up of three contents? Because any such association, of course, means the possibility of entanglement as well as entanglement. And we estimate that each content would be enough material for itself for each law in this process, which is actually the reason for this law. We are talking about the policy of state-owned enterprises. This started with the first set when the Government submitted a proposal for a law on the management of capital investments of the Republic of Slovenia. What was the content of this law, what were the discussions and where we came to, is probably clear enough for those of us who worked together to continue with this second set - that is, a person who is much more cautious. The second set is this law on the transformation of the Capital Society and it is already clear to us that it would be good to adopt all this content quickly, because it is likely that a third set is already being prepared, namely the transformation of Kad and Soda, that is, the third set of policies of state-owned enterprises. Personally, and I have also presented this position to my colleagues, I have some doubts about the procedures and content of this law, probably born to deal with the previous Capital Investment Management Act. A few things are strange, questionable, for which you are yourself, and probably even government representatives, at least some, would not be able to put their hands in the fire. If we go in a more orderly, more reasonable way to try to present this position, our position, my position, is that it should be, this is the first thought that we will express through the amendment in the Slovenian National Party, and some other amendments, the Consulting and Management Society should transfer its value to the Court. The bookkeeping value is supposed to have been transferred. I personally doubt the appropriateness of the book value and the write-offs of these values of the consulting and management company, especially since the law does not provide for and provides for a review of the Court's order, i.e. the one who will receive the money and will then be held accountable, but - funny - should be carried out by the Consulting and Management Society. It's like I'd evaluate myself the value of the car and its state, and it would be an official basis for the buyer. That's not working. That's not going to work unless you convince me that I understand completely wrong. So it is the Court that must order an audit and review the actual real book value of the Consulting and Management Society. Article 2 of the Act is also a misleading way for me and my colleagues to appoint members of the Supervisory Board or the Supervisory Board, and I am not yet sure what is right, what is the right term, in the new insurance company that will be created from Kad. In my opinion, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Parties, the conditions for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board in the insurance undertaking, therefore, that the conditions for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board in the insurance undertaking cannot be determined by the management of the company Kad or by the later administration of the insurance undertaking, but should be laid down by this law. We are absolutely sure of that, too. Since colleagues in general, politically and otherwise have said everything, I would rather be more specific. The things that sting us the most, and I'm going to move on to Article 6, where it says that when I'm supposed to pay P.I.S.A. 50 million a year. That 50 million, as far as I know, as far as I'm concerned, you will thank me, I'll thank you, I'll warn you, it's set on the basis of an 8-year average back. If that's true. Of course, I am sure or will say that I am in great doubt that when I am able to pay this amount, because the average of eight years, in which there was something very financially strong and good, will be able to pay it now in the situation we are in. I agree if there is such a calculation and such an amount, and there are assumptions that 50 million will be able to direct the ZPIZ annually. Okay. But there's no security guard, what if there isn't. And once again, I'm pretty sure he can't make that amount. That is why we are going to amend this fuse in Article 6, because the current economic situation gives a reasonable doubt that the sum of 50 million will be able to be realized in the future. We have also been cautious in the third paragraph of Article 7; it is again the issue of auditing and auditing. Same story I told her before. The normal and general principle in force is that the recipient, rather than the one who hands over the property, conducts a careful review or audit of the property taken. But that is precisely what Article 7 stipulates that the audit of the seized property should be carried out by the grantor, that is, the DSU or the company chosen by the DSU. Why am I saying this? Because I'm sure or I'll say it again because I'm in doubt if the Court doesn't hang all the missed investments from the cooperative, to advise and to carry out. I repeat, I fear that the Court will be hanged by all the missed investments in the work of the Consulting and Implementation Society, and that is why we will also amend this article and secure it by revising the one who will take over the assets and not the one who will give it. The same applies to the first paragraph of Article 8 where we will request this fuse. And that is, however, a substantive and organizational question, where it is written twice that there is a speech on the Court's supervisory council and the decision-making of the Court. If this is actually the Sos, then it has to be written down, according to the data I have, not the Supervisory Board, but the Supervisory Board. Because the Court is supposed to have a supervisory board, not a supervisory board. Which, I say, is at least nominal, if not substantively very important. I hope that I would be very clear on the views of the Slovenian National Party, that I have just or at least honestly said all our doubts, which you will, of course, reject or agree with us. In particular, I am talking to my colleagues, who will decide when the second treatment is to be held, when the time is right, about our amendments, with which we will wish to correct these doubts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u182	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor. [[He's giving up.]] Mr. Sylven Tiny. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Bogdan Chapich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. The operation of the Capital Company of Pension and Disability Insurance and the transfer of DSU rights to the Slovenian Compensation Society is a real continuation of the state-owned management policy adopted by the Government in mid-last year. If the first step was to set up a Capital Investment Agency, the transformation of Kad and Soda is of course a logical consequence, since in both of these two companies the government or the state indirectly manages the economy. In some cases, however, the two funds also hold the majority owned by companies and thus hold them accountable for the successful management of these companies, some of which are probably strategic investments of this country. The transformation of the Capital Society and, of course, the Slovenian Compensation Society and the DSU also intervenes in a number of areas of interest, which must be taken into account in this respect. I estimate that the purpose of the legislator is to make these different interests that have arisen in the functioning of When now, in fact, formally separate, and that when it could operate as it originally was intended when it was established in 1996, with a view to managing and creating additional funds for pension and disability insurance. The question is whether the proposed law will achieve this objective. I don't think so. The law before us does not follow these objectives in any way, nor does it follow the governance policy of state-owned enterprises adopted by the State. That is why such a law adopted by the Government and sent to the National Assembly is, in my opinion, bad and needs to be thoroughly complemented, as it does not follow the basic objective of corporate governance policy and not the guidelines enshrined in the Coalition Treaty, which has already been discussed today. Allow me to try to back up my opinion also with substantive comments. The conversion of Kad is reduced to the breakdown of the insurance company as a share company. The new insurance company is transferred to the management of four pension funds, both for public servants, which is the largest, as well as the capital mutual fund, which is neither small nor financially strong and has a very interesting insurance structure. When establishing a new life insurance company, the applicant does not answer any question as to whether it would be better to establish, in accordance with the law defining the functioning of pension companies, that is, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, a new pension company which will manage pension funds for public servants as a specific pension company, especially for public servants. On the contrary, what is already defined in the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which standardizes the status and functioning of the pension company, is passed on to the law on the conversion of Kad and Sod. In particular, I am referring to the involvement of insurers in the management of the insurance undertaking, since the Insurance Act, which is supposed to be the basic law for the new insurance company of this cooperation, does not provide for it. I have a feeling that there is a new mutual insurance company that, in order to reach the impact of the insured, we are now changing the law so that probably no one fully understands it. Above all, in the area where we define how we will connect the congregation and the insurance community into this mutual relationship. And that's not what this marriage is about. However, it is a very important provision in the law, which provides for the basic capital of the insurance undertaking at the time of its establishment, which is at least EUR 100,25 million two hundred thousand. It is interesting that the lower limit is set and not the upper limit or the fixed limit. However, it should be pointed out that this is about four times more than it would have been necessary to establish either a pension company or an insurance company under both laws: the Disability and Pension Insurance Act or the Insurance Act. This suggests that the establishment capital must be at least 4% of the management capital. I wonder whether this is not an obligation which we do not wish to issue from the offer made by Kad in 2004 when he committed himself in Article 19 of the Treaty on the Management of the Closed Mutual Staff Pension Fund to ensure that, in the event of a status transformation, the successor to whom the management of the ZVPS will be transferred will be provided with adequate capital adequacy in accordance with the restructuring project of the company by the manager, that is, Kad, submitted to the Commission for the selection of the manager of the closed mutual pension fund in the selection process. What kind of commitment this is, the bill-maker does not answer and does not explain, so there is certainly doubt. The weakness of this law is also that in the explanation of the proposal we are not talking at all about any figures that would explain what part of the property of the State or the insured will be transformed by management. On the basis of the data from the 2009 and 2008 Kad business report, we can conclude that this property is approximately two billion, three hundred million at Kad, as assets managed for the needs of SPIZ and about a billion, which are in the pension funds that are specifically managed. However, it sets out in great detail what the distribution plan should include and who will ever give consent or an opinion to this divisional plan. A special committee of the closed mutual pension fund for public servants and a committee of the mutual mutual pension fund, which are in fact informal bodies and which give only an opinion, is appointed. However, there is no SPIZ, which is actually the owner or should be the recipient in my opinion of all the funds that Kad acquires through the management of the assets of the certified property, which was intended for the additional financing of the pension fund. I hope that the drafter of the law has only been listed in Article 4, paragraph 2, point eight, that, when dividing the share of the assets and liabilities transferred to the insurance undertaking, he or she may also refer to the documents. Not in the explanatory memorandum and elsewhere it is not written on which documents, perhaps those referred to in Article 19 of the Treaty on the Management of the Closed Mutual Fund for Public Servants or any other. This is unacceptable, because we are not talking about five cents, but together probably two and a half billion euros are missing, without the funds of the Soda and the DSU, but we are just bringing them together and they will slowly complete their mission once ownership and these things are completed. This is about 25 to 30% of this country's annual budget. And it's not that small anymore. Furthermore, the proposal and the explanation of the law do not explain how the applicant has reached the commitment of Kada, to PPIZ, annually EUR 50 million, which is generated through the management of Kad's assets, paragraph 6. What if it's a bad year and there's no money? What about when the year is good and will bring in much more? There are a lot of questions and, of course, I also expect the definition of STIZ on this issue or transformation. Don't make any mistake. I believe it is necessary to reshape the Kad and the Court and the DSU, but slightly different. In my opinion, it is necessary to provide public servants with their own pension company, which will manage its pension fund, where the employer and the payer of supplementary insurance, of course, is a state, and assumes the responsibility and obligation of the owner of such fund and ensures that this fund is adequately profitable in accordance with the pension plan. The employer must be responsible for his employees, and this is the right way. Not so that when Kad did not reach a guaranteed relationship, for example in 2008, they sold some of the assets and filled in the guaranteed yields. The requirement of public sector unions is to participate in the management of pension funds. And that's right. The Insurance Act does not allow this. Therefore, the applicant provided in this law for the possibility for insurers to participate adequately in the management of pension funds. This would also take on part of the responsibility. Is it true that this is an insurance law, not an lex specialis law that defines the functioning of pension companies? If a pension company were to be established, it would not be necessary to provide for insurance undertakings to be represented in an insurance company in the law of certain legal societies and in the second paragraph of Article 2. In the case of a pension company, this is already provided for, namely, the pension company’s management must have at least two members who must be in a fixed-term working relationship and may be appointed as a member of the board who has obtained authorisation to manage the function of a member of the pension company’s administration. The Supervisory Board of the Retirement Society shall be composed in such a way that at least one third of the members of the Supervisory Board are appointed on a proposal from the pensioners. Insurers have such an important impact on the adoption of investment policies, strategies for the development and operation of a pension company. However, the supervisory role of the insurer is also ensured. All of this should therefore not be included in the law which attempts to incorporate this standard of participation of insurers into a management system in a company established under an insurance law which does not, of course, define such a standard. In Slovenia we have three pension companies that have daily, according to my data, 31. 3. 2010, 155.490 insured persons, while carrying out EUR 547 million of insured assets. All these insurers are provided with transparency of operations, supervision of the operator’s specialisation and, last but not least, this specialised activity of the pension company complies with the basic rules of operation, which are also substantively covered by Directive 2003, 41 EC on the operation and supervision of the implementation of occupational pensions. Thus, the Directive provides, inter alia, that, in order to protect the interests of members and beneficiaries of the implementation of supplementary pension insurance, they must not manage any other activity, in fact only to manage pension funds, as this is extremely important. Of course, there is largely a guarantee of the return and the income that the insurers are expected to receive from this. Therefore, they only carry out business of pension insurance and related activities. In view of the fact that the proposed law provides that insurance companies should actually carry out only pension fund management activities, there is no reason to set up an insurance company, but in my opinion a purely specialised pension company for public servants should be established. We already have some of these companies, employers have already established such companies and we already have a pattern. In this case, the Government must be the main employer, as the owner of the long-term stability of this pension company. Chapter three, The exercise of rights from shares and the availability by Kad and the Court of Justice are not in line with the Capital Investment Management Act adopted in the National Assembly. Above all, it is necessary to define clearly what Kad is actually. Whether it is still a management parastatal company or it is only a portfolio company for the purposes of the PPIZ and the management of the portfolio property of the PPIZ, which does not exceed 5% and is not in the country's strategic investments. Such a variant and such a share has already been identified in some previous versions of the law. This is a portfolio investment of up to 5% due to the dispersion and security of investments. Certainly, however, strategic investments of the country must not be transferred to the insurance undertaking, nor is the insurance undertaking itself a strategic investment of the country, since the National Assembly has not yet adopted a strategic investment programme in the Republic of Slovenia. What, though, determines this investment and society that this strategic investment is particularly important for the Republic of Slovenia? Nothing, since we have no business or strategic plan or criteria to define it, we do not know of any return and no importance so far. Or this is simply because it is a strategic investment as long as the pension funds for public servants are managed. What about the Capital Mutual Fund and other pension funds, in which the State also has a majority share through related ownership? We have several more: the funds that are in the insurance company Triglav, the fund that is within the banking group of the New Credit Bank Maribor, and probably others could be found. In short, this is not the case, and why only this insurance company, and not some other company, which is likely to have a greater significance for the Republic of Slovenia, as well as a return and also there, is the country more than 50% owned by connected companies. I myself estimate that the merger of the Soda and the DSU does not fall within this law. To terminate the DSU, which we have been actually shutting down for some time now, another procedure has to be carried out. When and when an insurance company is established under the Pension Insurance Act or in the field of the provision of better pensions. The reform of the Court and the DSU is the result of the law on the completion of ownership and the Slovenian Development Company, the successor of which is actually the DSU. There is no link, so it is not reasonable for two important areas to be linked in the same law, since they have extremely few common points, except when Kad, the Court and the DSU are owned by an economic society together with the State. This area of governance must be addressed by the new State Capital Investment Management Agency.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The word is Ljubo Germich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The law before us had been expected for quite some time, since the transformation of Kad and the Court was expected. I would like to touch on my own two contents, which may need to be supplemented by explanations or to explain why they are written in the same way as in the draft law. The dilemmas I will speak of alone, and he has already instructed my colleague Chapič in the previous debate. When it was established with a view to transferring part of the certificates to management at the time of the property conversion, that is to say, the management of this certificate property to provide additional funds to ensure the stability of the pension system. Now that we are talking about the transformation of Kad, the pension and disability insurance, we need to ask ourselves how this transformation is taking place. I am addressing the applicant myself with questions about the creation of a new insurance company to which several pension funds are to be managed, including the closed mutual pension fund for public servants, the first pension fund, the first pension fund of the first pension fund and the mutual mutual pension fund. This raises the question whether the decision to set up a special insurance undertaking, a decision that has been optimally weighed, whether to create a new insurance undertaking or to take over such transactions, is also a matter for the creation of a pension company. Why am I thinking this way? The insurance company defined by this law is in fact based on two laws, the Insurance Act, where the insurance company is formed, and the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which refers to the manner in which the supervision is carried out. Here comes some confusion as to why and how an insurance company is formed under such conditions. This dilemma is increased when we speak of the law providing, at least on the grounds that the closed pension mutual fund is a strategic investment of the State in that insurance undertaking, and then only one third of the participation in the supervisory authority is allocated to the State in the division of responsibility in the control of Kadu or the State. That is why a number of issues are emerging here, which will certainly have to be explained more clearly in relation to these dilemmas, which I have been talking about in the context of further consideration of this law. However, the second open issue that colleagues have also discussed is the provision that, on the basis of the management of the assets that will continue to be managed by Kad after the conversion, the commitment to ZPIZ will be worth 50 million. And here, of course, questions are raised as to how this number has come about and what happens if the business is more successful and these assets will be managed by Kad more than 50 million. A fundamental question is then also raised as to what will happen if this property becomes more, whether debt will occur or property will be sold, because I am sure that this is not a decision on the role and importance of Kato in the future for decisions that will have a shorter period of time. I am convinced that Slovenia's interest is the stability of the pension system and the role of Kad as such, not only in the short term, because it would reduce its assets on the basis of, say, poorer incomes, but the long-term stability of the pension system, which also requires the efficiency of management or the importance of how and how resources will be allocated in the event of values that will be above and below 50 million. I therefore expect that the debate on this law will explain these issues today, but certainly in the consideration of this law below. However, if it turns out that there are additional possibilities to improve the law, there will be some improvements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u186	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u187	Thank you so much for saying that. When this bill came into action, it was clear that it would be concerned about such concerns, concerns and also perceptions and opposition positions as it was observed when we adopted a law on the management of the capital shares of the Republic of Slovenia. Remember, even then, the question was whether it was vetoed or not. And it was even a question of whether to go to the referendum with this. But after the government adopted a policy of managing state-owned corporate investment last year, it is clear that it also had to come up with more concrete proposals for laws. And now you are the subject of our thoughts and our concerns. I would say myself that this law, which we are now talking about and which has already been said to have three parts, is, in fact, misunderstood if we understand it by the fact that the substance, purpose, purpose, transformation of the capital society and the transfer of the rights and powers of the DSU to the Court of Justice. No, no, no. The essence of this law is to ensure such management of these investments, that management is better, that it brings better, and that those expectations that we have put into this legislation will also be realized. We can also recall the warnings that Dr. Bogomir Kovac wrote in the article almost two months ago, that it would be less when he doubted, and I think that it is justified that ownership changes are what is essential - I believe so - and that it is important to ensure proper good governance with the relevant contributions. That this was not the case in the case of Kad and Sod, it implies the law itself, because the law mentions this objective, the objective of better governance, including availability, and that is probably what we must aspire to. The fact that the rights and powers of the DSU are transferred to the Court of Justice and that the wording changes Kad, these are only the ways, means for which the applicant, the Government, in this case, considers it appropriate that this fundamental objective of better governance and greater returns will also be achieved. If we think of one of the problem-stricken dilemmas about this 50 million payment every year in the PIZ, then what kind of system does this actually work in? That 50 million is just a drop in what we need to pay our pensions. Roundly, let's say we need $5 billion for this, and with this 50 million we certainly cannot guarantee the stability of this public treasury, the stability of the pension system, so something needs to be changed if we really want to change this by having a resource that will provide long-term sustainability of the pension fund, then we need to strengthen this resource, including ownership that will provide regular annual returns, but in substantially different numbers. If that were not the case, then we would not have already adopted the Capital Share Management Act, which was also adopted because we are not sure that Kad and the Court are adequately managing capital shares. It is clear that we are not satisfied with this if we have written down and expect that the agency that will be set up to manage and dispose of these shares will play this role, in particular in those shares that speak of more than 40 million together and when we are talking about strategic investments. If we focus only on how ownership structures can possibly change, who will own, who will possibly take on more than he does, then we will not solve the whole task. The essence of the task is to ensure different management, quality management, in order to ensure greater returns. And because we are talking about Kad, whose basic mission is the stability of the pension fund, also this.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The word is Love Lycar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u189	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state with co-workers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The proposal of the Law is a kind of continuation of the Capital Investment Management Act, which has been adopted recently, which will allow for the last phase of privatisation of state capital assets, so that few individuals will be enriched with the assets that we citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have created for decades. The ruling coalition by establishing a so-called independent capital investment management agency makes it possible to avoid liability and further opens the door to irregularities that have occurred in the past in the management and privatisation of state assets. The draft law is also not written in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which lays down, in its Article 115, the mandatory elements of the bill. The Rules of Procedure provide that the proposal for a law should include, inter alia, the presentation of arrangements in comparable legal systems, at least three of them, and the adaptation of the proposed regulation of European Union law. The bill states that institutions such as DSU, the Court of Justice and Kad are not internationally comparable in their current form, which does not allow for the presentation of regulation in comparable legal systems. I think that this is a fraud because other countries are also carrying out their assets, so it is not possible to see or exist institutions such as Kad and the Court, but how they manage state assets in comparable countries. In the recently adopted Capital Investment Management Act, a comparison with comparable legal systems has been made correctly. It has shown, however, that the proposed solutions to the Capital Investment Management Act are contrary to the arrangements of other countries and that the proposed solutions are uneconomic and imprudent. The proposal for a law governs the conversion of Kad by the inclusion of the insurance company as a share company. This, however, may be contrary to the European Union Directive on insurance and the European Union Directive on unfair competition. It is also misleading to point out to the Government that the proposal for a law will have no financial implications for the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and that the bill will have no financial implications for other public financial resources. The proposal for a law in Article 10 provides that if the resources of the Court of Justice are not sufficient to settle the obligations that the Court has under this and other laws to provide such funds to the Republic of Slovenia. It is clear, therefore, that financial consequences can arise and that the Government, as a bill-maker, should assess and cite these financial consequences. The financial implications, although not direct to the state budget and therefore indirect to smaller transfers in the pension register, have the effect of a provision of Article 6, which provides that every year Kad must charge the pension fund EUR 50 million. This provision, by the way, is incomplete because it does not specify what happens if Kad does not order this money. The Government, as a bill-maker in the introduction, states that it has adopted a policy of governance of state-owned enterprises. The aim of this policy is to design and implement policies in accordance with the principles of efficiency, efficiency, efficiency and transparency. Under these circumstances, however, the Government itself has put into the legislative procedure a law which does not contain at all a list of assets that Members will decide on, which seems unacceptable to us. In our view, it is also unacceptable that Article 9 provides that the assets of DSU, which will be found and found after transfer under this Act, belong to the Court of Justice. This shows that the state obviously does not know what property it already has and even less who enjoys the benefits of state property, or does not want to know about it. For the sake of all this, in our Group of Members, we feel that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u190	Thank you very much. The word is Mirko Brulc. [[He's quitting.]] The word is Brada Pecan. [[He's quitting.]] Did I miss anyone? I hope not. Joz Tanko. [[He's not here.]] Renata Brunskole. [[It's not.]] Does the representative of the candidates, or the representative of the Government, the Secretary of State want the floor? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Today's law is, in fact, somehow a logical continuation of the Capital Investment Management Act and together with the law adopted last month constitutes an infrastructure basis for organisational regulation of government property management. The text of the law before you is the result of a public debate. The fruit of the public debate also with the social partners is the decision to reshape Kad by setting up a new insurance company. The fact is that this area could also be regulated in the form of a pension society, but the public debate with the social partners has indicated a greater consensus for a solution as included in the bill. In short, I would also like to respond to the discussions on the provision of funds to be provided by Kad to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and what happens if the revenues are not sufficient to pay in the law for a set EUR 50 million. The law only provides for a legal obligation. All other solutions will be decided in the management bodies, which means that in the event of a lack of funds, Kad will have to provide additional funds or additional decisions on the allocation or availability of any surplus. Today's debate has given us a number of concrete comments and a number of concrete concerns that will need to be carried out precisely, we hope that, in the context of the second reading of the bill. We estimate that the proposed proposal for a law is an appropriate basis for a more transparent and efficient financial asset management policy. However, we believe that specific issues can be resolved in further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u192	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. Please, I'll file a report. I'm asking you to sign up. A government representative may also apply if she so wishes. There's a word for Jože Tanko. Five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Surely the atmosphere for debate in the National Assembly is not the best today. The protests, given the way various dialogues are taking place at the level of the government and other partners, have taken some form today. Otherwise, in the National Assembly, when we have discussions when we face opposition and coalition opinions, it kind of looks different. This seems more like a political account, but in these specific cases, which we are witnessing to today, it is no longer so. I think that the approach taken by the Government in this package, in this work, is inappropriate and is contrary to the coalition agreement you wrote down at the beginning of the mandate. All these programs are going in the opposite direction. And given how you handle it, you lose the red thread in these laws and in these solutions. That the problem is even bigger, this law is different from that announced in the 2010 Government's normative programme. The solution to this problem goes in the opposite direction and, above all, the problem of these proposals coming into the National Assembly, and also this, is that these reorganisations are actually losing a comprehensive image, a comprehensive picture. Control is lost, reporting is lost and, in fact, a fundamental problem, or the fundamental solutions to these reorganisations and legislative changes are, in fact, precisely these matters. This is called a transfer from one institution to an intermediate or another institution, somewhere we take something else along and put a few more thirds there. It is established from a formal institution then by a new agency and so on. With these interpretations, these translations actually lose a complete red thread of control over state property. And the fundamental problem and the fundamental approach of the Government in this mandate is, in fact, this: from a legal regulated institution, this is something transferred to an institution, part of one another to another institution, the establishment of an agency, and nowhere does this law indicate how reporting is regulated, who is being informed and what control is being exercised over the management of this property. In this case, control in this law is not defined. In section 9 of the Act you wrote: additionally identified and found assets. I think that this article should read: additional property lost, no assets found. By way of approach, by organising this, exactly what is happening is what is said to be losing control of property. In fact, I am interested in what this great interest of the Government is that decisions in this area are changing so quickly. In fact, many of these decisions depend on the day-to-day mood of the Prime Minister and some ministers. That's what happens. If there were eighteen holes in Lipica once, there were nine. In the area of government management, the story is exactly the same. It's exactly the same! In the field of social affairs, the story is exactly the same! We're talking about system modernisation. There's been a decrease in rights. We are talking here in this law about improving transparency and there is no control anywhere. No article in this law defines control, nor does any article define reporting. How the coalition represents control over state shares, state investment, state property, insurance and the like, as far as this establishment is concerned. It's impossible. There's no control. And that means that these things are moving in the right direction and in a way that, in fact, everything in some elegant way is actually going to get lost in some pairs of curves and pairs of institutions. I don't think this law, as it was written, deserves all the support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-05-19-SDZ5-Redna-17.ana.u194	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide, in accordance with the timing of the meeting tomorrow, 20. 5. 2010, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I am also adjourning the 17th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Thank you very much and good-bye.
