ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 37th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that Member Milenko Ziherl will not attend today's meeting after 12 p.m. I invited a representative of the Council of State and representatives of the Government, whom I welcome very much. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 37th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 22 December 2010. I note that I have not received any proposals for enlargement or withdrawal of agenda items. We are moving to a vote on the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that today's meeting set a agenda, as we have received with reference, for this is a re-decision on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 66 Members and Members present, 65 votes against none. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 37th Extraordinary Session has been set. We're moving on to Treatment One. Agenda items, this is a re-decision on the law on retirement and invalidity insurance. At its 27th extraordinary meeting on 21 December 2010, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, prior to its announcement, decide again on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. In order to explain the request of the Council of State, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State, Mag. Baby Semolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u2	Dear Members and Members, I wish you a good day! In the name of the State Council, just a word or two, because you did receive the material What is it that led us to give you this law in reexamine? I'm laying out two things. We believe that this law has violated an important principle on which the pension system is based, that is, the principle of righteousness. The principle of righteousness says that the law must lay down the conditions for obtaining full - pension rights for most people. Unfortunately, this law, by prolonging the conditions for you to obtain a full pension for three years, will certainly affect the vast majority of workers and workers who are subject to this condition for health reasons and because of the situation in the labour market. Do not overlook or question the warnings of employers, such jobs, especially in industry and in the economy, simply do not exist and will not exist in the future. It should be borne in mind that if the conditions for obtaining a full pension, a retirement pension, were extended for three years, what would happen? More older people will be unemployed, more hospitals and more disability pensions. This will also burden public finances. It is important to be aware that Slovenia, after the intensity of work 1 in Europe, after the extensiveness of the 11th, is, according to allegations, even unpaid, we are the 1st in Europe. This leaves consequences for people's health. To overlook that is a mistake. Where are the reserves? It's not like you're chasing older people forward and threatening them with smallpox and an extension of working age from 18 to 27 years, which is proving to lead to low, miserable pensions. We are not afraid of calculations for full pensions for those who will work until the age of 65 or have 43 years of retirement. Not to be afraid, they may get the same pension, and some may even get a little bigger. We fear for the majority of workers and workers who fail to meet this condition and have calculations with names and surnames that prove that these pensions will be miserable. To overlook this and not to see it is certainly a mistake. What's the point of the problem we're seeing? The solution is to help the pension fund, not in the end, but in the beginning. Young people, who are huge, end up in school, want to work, and work on dirty, insecure parts. Slovenia is a recorder in young people in fine works, 80% of young work, or indefinitely, or from today to tomorrow. They need to be given quality jobs, good wages in order to be able to pay contributions and so on in the case of the unemployed. Here's the point of the problem. Without that, there is no reform to succeed. Here's the problem of some piece of legislation, which I think would be right. There's something else about finance. Slovenia is the only country in Europe where employers have paid a lower contribution to the pension fund since 1996. The ILO Convention states that this is an important standard and is adhered to by all countries; the relative amount must be the same for employers and workers. Even in the United States, one and the other pay exactly the same amount – 6.2%. In Slovenia since 1996, employers have significantly less, and this is the reason why they are burdening the budget. By 1996, this cashier was liquid, even from this treasury, lending money to the budget, and 135 thousand were unemployed. At first, there are problems, and this law doesn't solve them, I'm sorry to conclude. It is not a dilemma either for reform or against reform. We are against such reforms that are being offered to us and therefore the call of the Council of State to reconsider and decide as you choose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The request of the Council of State was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u4	Mr Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons is held at its 22nd extraordinary meeting, on 22. 12. Consider the request of the State Council that the National Assembly decide again on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government and adopted it at its 23rd meeting, 14. 12. 2010 Meetings of the Board were attended by the State Councillor, Mag. Dušan Semolič, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr. Ivan Svetlik with colleagues and representative of the Legal and Legal Service, Dr. Samo Dijak. The representative of the Council of State presented in more detail the reasons for the request for re-decision on the law in the introductory explanation. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service, which stressed that the reasons for adopting the re-decision requirement were substantive and not of a legal nature and therefore the Legislative and Legal Service could not be defined in relation to its business tasks. The Committee was also given an opinion by the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in which the Minister presented in more detail the individual reasons for rejecting the State Council's arguments. They consider that the reasons for the State Council’s request for re-decision on the law are not justified. In a short discussion, the members and members of the Committee stressed their support for pension reform, as it is necessary. The generational or demographic relationship in Slovenia is what prevails, with all the concerns and serious comments. If we are building on intergenerational solidarity, we also need to look at the younger generation. Intergenerational solidarity as a fundamental element of pension insurance requires justice to all generations and the responsibility of all stakeholders in the system, so it is essential to act now, as we must be aware that young people will bear the burden of paying pensions in particular. It was also pointed out that, after all the discussions and requests for this pension reform, they stood and would continue to support it. Following the discussion, the Committee voted by 8 votes in favour and no votes against: the Pension and Disability Insurance Act is appropriate. The Committee adopted the proposed opinion by a majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u5	Thank you very much. To explain my opinion, I give the floor to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u6	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The main argument put forward by the State Council against the law is that it will not ensure the achievement of 2 fundamental objectives, namely the stability of the pension fund and the cessation of the fall in pensions. However, on the basis of studies and analyses carried out on the basis of all the parameters of this law, as adopted in the final version, it has been demonstrated that the trend of permanent pension losses in relation to salaries can be halted, that pensions will be given more than 7.5 to 19 % than they would be under the existing law and, as a result of the deletion of 151, the harmonisation of existing pensions will also be more favourable than they are now. This will improve the social situation of pensioners. It has also been shown that pensionable cash will be more sustainable or more stable and will ensure the smooth payment of pensions for the next 10 to 15 years. This will help to consolidate the budget, which currently contributes 30% of the necessary funds to the pension fund. We will also avoid the risk of further indebtedness, burdening the younger generations with debts and violating other social rights. Modernising the pension system is the government's largest reform project so far. It means a proactive response of the state and society to the unrestrained changes in the age composition of the population, which will require further adaptation in the coming decades. The successful implementation of the new Retirement and Disability Insurance Act will also open the door to other urgent adaptations in the areas of public administration, labour market, health care and the like, and will contribute to a faster exit from the crisis and accelerated economic and technological development. The rejection of this law would only sharpen and delay the resolution of pension system issues, which would require similar but less-friendly measures for people in the future. At the same time, it would also block other urgent reforms, tighten the issue of public debt and public finances and seriously weaken the development potential of Slovenia. Slovenia would take a dangerous step towards the most economically and financially vulnerable countries in the European Union. In addition, I would like to add that we regret that the social partners, especially the unions, have not learned the necessity of modernising the pension system and that we have not convinced them to do so either through calculations or negotiations. The interest in early retirement is placed in the interest of greater pensions and greater social security for current and future pensioners. They do not want to contribute to development efforts through a more visible extension of the workforce, which would follow an extension of the life expectancy and the retirement age. The alternative solutions they propose are welcome and the government accepts them and also integrates them into marriage solutions, but unfortunately they do not provide sufficient results. I therefore suggest that you reconfirm the already approved law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Social Democrats, Dr. Andrej Meglič Montenegro will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u8	Hello again! As I see it, the representative of the Council of State is no longer among us to listen to the opinions of the representatives of the groups of Members. Today we are already discussing the proposal for a law on pension and disability insurance. We have faced both professional and political arguments on the course of the debate so far and have highlighted the main dilemmas brought about by the adoption of the law. The amendment of pension legislation is one of the fundamental structural reforms of this government and it is therefore understandable that it raises some key dilemmas and open issues. Virtually all of us agree on the basis that pension reform must be adopted due to demographic, social and financial facts. It is therefore difficult to understand the position of the Council of State, which, in explaining the re-decision requirement, states that this is merely an attempt to save public finances at the expense of a large majority of employees who will not be able to meet the conditions for obtaining pensions without small children. What the drafters did not point out in the debate is the fact that all measures that exacerbate the conditions of retirement will be introduced gradually so that the transitional period will last for the next 10 to 15 years, which is a long period and at that time a number of other arrangements can be set up. However, it is crucial that the reform has been prepared to pursue the interests of all generations and strives to divide the burden evenly between generations. In explaining the re-decision requirement, the Council of State also recalls that the law dealing with the pension and disability insurance system was adopted without the necessary consensus between the social partners on certain essential solutions, which has not happened since the previous amendments to the legislation in this area. At the same time, I reiterate that we have always been aware by the Social Democrats that changes in the pension system cannot be achieved without the widest possible consensus. Therefore, in the course of the long public debate on the draft law, we have focused on finding compromises that would be acceptable to the majority. In the course of the examination of the law, we have complemented the bill with a third of the proposals drawn up on the basis of the search for this consensus. I wonder what else we should do to reach a compromise without jeopardising the achievement of the basic objectives of pension reform. When we chose the strategy for implementing the pension reform, we had 3 uninterruptedly pleasant paths ahead of us. We have decided for the third time, and this is, in our view, the most realistic extension of the pension period to obtain the right to an old-age pension. This is an example that we see in other countries. Why did we decide that? The key reason for the necessity of pension reform is the ageing of the population, which presents for Slovenia one of the biggest economic and social challenges of the future. In Slovenia we have 1.6 to 1.7 employees per pensioner. Europe has 3 to 4 employees in retirement and is concerned about what will happen to the pension system and is doing serious reform, wrote Dr. Janez Malačič, one of the leading demoographers in Slovenia. We should have been worried a long time ago when social peace was bought in the 1990s with early retirement. With the new pension reform, the retirement age will rise and the relationship between pensioners and the working population will stabilise and contribute to the sustainability of pension insurance. Only if we do not adapt immediately to the unfavourable demographic situation, we risk that future generations of pensions may not have or will be so low that they will not provide basic social security for future generations. This undermines the principles of intergenerational solidarity, which is the foundation of our pension system. Pension reforms are inevitable and I wonder who will eventually take responsibility for this if we do not accept it. We should not allow changes in the pension area to take place in the future, thereby endangering the survival of the system, again expert Dr Malačič. These are facts, not simple demagogies. In the end, let me finish. We Social Democrats have always advocated strengthening the social state and the pension system is one of the foundations of this country. Members are responsible for re-confirming or rejecting it. By our election to the highest representative body, the people trusted us to represent their highest interests. As he wrote to me so dear poet Simon Gregorčič: "It is not only his duty to tell him the state which he can do, it is his duty to do." On the basis of a number of documents read, more than 50 hours of discussions and arguments, the Social Democrats are fully responsible for re-confirming the pension reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mr France Cukjat.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! The State Council has given us another chance to reconsider the law. The Slovenian Democratic Party joins the arguments put forward by the State Council as a reason for veto. We still have two main concerns, mostly. The first is that such an important law should, however, respect the requirements of social dialogue and also take account of other actors, not just those sitting here in the National Assembly. Secondly, it is our great concern that the law treats certain categories of insured persons selectively, wrongly, wrongly. Let me re-ciprocate only two cases. The first case is those insured persons who have been convinced by the law so far that they will be able to apply 10 months a year for studies next year, for a 5 year study this is 4 years. With the extension of working time, those who can enter into a working relationship much later are disadvantaged because of studies, like those who can do so after high school. In the following year, those who are supposed to be able to retire under the old law will suddenly be reduced to 4 years for 5 years of study and will have to work 4 years longer than they did and probably have already prepared for retirement. During these 4 years, the requirement of working time will also be extended by a new law for 2 years, saying that six years will suddenly have to work more than they calculated because they believed in the law, the rule of law and the constitutional right to protect the expected rights. What does this mean for young graduates who have no job available for six years? This is another matter for employment, which, of course, was not solved by the Minister of Labour. The second category I would like to draw attention to in these minutes is working under difficult working conditions. Workers who have had the right to recognise credits or benevolent periods at the expense of difficult working conditions will be able to use this right only if sufficient funds have been raised in their account and they have been paid by the employer. Of course, we know that they are not there and that they will not be able to benefit from these rights. This is another issue which will have to be resolved by the Constitutional Court. While we were waiting for the decision of the State Council, we also received the Court of Auditors' audit report on the effectiveness of the retirement procedures two days ago, where the Court of Auditors finds out, I quote: "The irregularities and shortcomings of the Pension Insurance Office are mostly related to the deficiencies in the salaries of insured persons in a significant part, which is 7.6% of the verified pension records." It notes that there are no guarantees or guarantees that pensions are not paid to dead souls and that many pensioners do not receive proper pensions. This is the problem that we wanted to solve with the insurance’s informational personal account, where each insured person would have direct access to his or her account or whenever he wanted to, he could see whether the employer is paying contributions, how much work time and what kind of pension he could expect if he retired at the first opportunity or later. Nor do we have to support this law because it is truly full of constitutional holes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u12	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Zares Group – A new policy we regret to follow all the discussions and processes that took place during the adoption of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. We are surprised that the State Council, as part of the legislative authority itself, does not see the importance and necessity of adopting this law. Moreover, when reading this content and demanding that the National Assembly decide again on this law, it seems that it is a complete deceiving and populism which does not have many common points with the actual content of the law. The past unconstructive operation of certain unions can be considered dangerous, since without the right arguments it separates this society, which today is based on intergenerational solidarity. When the Council of State speaks of a more equitable burden-sharing, it would be good to recall the laws already adopted in this mandate that preserve this burden-sharing. If anyone, then just us, is slightly younger and already employed, we can express certain doubts precisely because of irresponsible past behaviour, both in politics and in the social partners, among which, for decades, today's rapporteur of the Council of State has also been involved. The latter would be good to remind us that the times of the industrial revolution and of the manufacture have long passed. In the centuries, this distance is measured. Trade unions and other social partners may be able to take a step forward and adapt to the current situation. At the same time, of course, it is also necessary to appeal to employers, to their ethics and morals, which must not always be subordinated to the sole interests of capital and profit. It must be acknowledged that this has been so far, we hope that after this crisis something will be different. However, this is not the subject of the legislation that we are talking about today and the proposaler knows this very well. In its request for re-decision in the same breath, the State Council mentions that merely increasing the retirement age to 41 and 43 years and increasing the age to 65 years for a non-minor pension will certainly not guarantee the long-term sustainability of the system. At the same time, he also knows well, at least he should know that the pension period in question does not have much in common with 65 years of age, since we are talking about two different things. In the first place, those who have begun to work and who will retire earlier if they meet the minimum pension conditions, that is 43 and 41 years of retirement, and for all others, as is the case today after the law adopted by the consent of all social partners, will be the minimum retirement age of 65. When the State Council further mentions the intensity and intensity of work, which makes the vast majority of employees of victims of bone-muscular injuries and diseases likely, the applicants also know that the provision of minimum standards of the working environment and the work area of other legislation is not subject to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. In addition to the calculation of the pension base, which has been extended to 30 years minus 3, which is expected to result in a reduction in the amount of the pension, the representatives of the State Council do not say that the period for the calculation of the pension will be extended gradually, in short, every year for a year longer. It is convenient to mention that the dose percentage is 80% in the new law and, under the existing law, it is expected to be 79.5% next year and to fall to 72%. Here we can talk about the complete deception of Slovenian workers and workers by their supposed representatives. When the Council of State speaks of a large number of young people who have completed their education, they would want to work and are employed in precarious jobs where contributions to pension and health insurance are not paid and so on, it should be said that this law is the law that prevents the non-payment of contributions that stimulates the employment of young people and, in the end, also introduces a leading principle that each work counts. Of course, we could discuss the labour market, shortcomings in practice, problems in employment, opening new jobs, restructuring and so on, but this is not the subject of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The social partners could have done a lot in the past, but they didn't. As far as young people are concerned, I understand that, since there is actually no one among their members under the age of 25. From this point of view, too, it is irresponsible on the part of the State Council, trade unions and some opposition parliamentary groups to deny the need to enact and enforce the law before us through demagogies and like-minded Flossules. It would be good for us to be able, regardless of generation or political option, to have a lot of courage and responsibility to reaffirm the content of the law. Because it alone continues to ensure intergenerational solidarity, with emphasis on the age of those who are now and us who will be. In the Parliamentary Group Really – a new policy, of course, we will re-support the law. It's one of the reforms that the coalition has committed itself to, not because it likes it, but because it is necessary. However, we are aware that further steps towards a new social contract will be needed in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the last month of the current year, we have approved a new Law on Disability and Pension Insurance in the National Assembly, which is expected to bring at least an emergency solution to increasingly unsustainable pensions. Members of the Slovenian People's Party voted in favour of this law and helped to adopt it, although we knew what reactions individual citizens and citizens can expect. But we have decided that we will put responsible and beneficial treatment before the current popular attitude solely so that people can guarantee in the long term what they want and have the right to have – pensions. The current pension legislation no longer gives us any assurance that the pension system will be sustainable and that it will ensure that we receive our pensions smoothly. In the Slovenian People's Party, we did not cast our votes in order to gather the Government or even get it out of trouble, but because we took the pension reforms seriously, examined the law, proposed changes and corrections, many of which were also accepted, and because we know what could be done in the reform itself, and we also commit ourselves to doing so as soon as we have this opportunity again. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have achieved that, under the new law, the current recipients of the state pension have not been deprived of this right. However, all new beneficiaries shall be granted under the Social Benefit Act. Among the recipients of the state pension are farmers, craftsmen and other women and households who were not able to pay in the previous system, and would thus be without any income at their age. This is now guaranteed by the state pension. In addition to the state pension, the adopted law, on our request and proposal, also again includes benefits for parents, especially mothers for all children, for men to reduce the age for the entire duration of service of the military period, even though we in the SLS Group requested recognition of the pension age. The pension period is recognised for workers to whom companies have not paid their contributions, and electronic access to the data in the PPIZ is enabled. Our complement was adopted to reduce the management fee from 1.5% to 1%, as well as some other necessary measures. It will be shown that pension reform, like each other, has some painful effects, which will also be unfair to some, and for which we are already committed in the Slovenian People's Party to try to correct them in the future as soon as possible. In the SLS Group, although we have supported the pension reform, we expect the current Slovenian government to take economic aid seriously. We always stress this on all other occasions, including with individual proposals. True, we live in difficult times, but they are not very different from those who were in 1990. At that time, we had to decide whether to live a relatively comfortable life without change, which in the long run brings no good, or drastic, short - term, changes. We decided to go to Slovenia. This time we've decided on the latter, and we're sure we're right. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will once again support the vote on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to ministers, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, the Pension and Disability Insurance Act will not be supported this time either. Nevertheless, it must be said that we agree that reform or amendment of pension legislation cannot be avoided. But not at such a high price, which shows that pensioners and certain working groups will pay it and those who do not or will not have it. Aware of this, we, as the Group of Members, have worked constructively in our view and have tried to make a little contribution to making the reform acceptable to all, both for those who work and for those who already enjoy the fruits of their work. Unfortunately, the will and support of this National Assembly, as well as the Government and the Ministry, were not strong enough to adopt solutions that would be fair to pensioners and even acceptable to the budget. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the labour reform relating to the amount of pensions actually means a reduction in pensions. The reduction in pensions relative to wages is already inevitable at 70:30 formula. In addition, pensioners will be deprived until 2015 because, until then, wage coordination will apply only to 60% in terms of wage growth. The situation of pensioners will be worse still due to the freezing of the coordination of pensions, which have been in line for the past 2 years and the cuts are becoming more acute. These cuts, even though this is a few euros a month for someone, are not so negligible in the annual amount, as they will know each other permanently. Pensioners will be permanently affected even if such measures were no longer needed after 2012. The new formula and the freezing of pensions mean only one – the level of income of pensioners will decrease, it is said that the social economic situation of pensioners is deteriorating. The pensions of future generations are expected to be better in the future. This is partly true as the replacement ratio is fixed at 80%. The principle of horizontal equivalence shall be implemented. On the other hand, the reduction of pensions will still be inevitable due to the extension of the working period for the calculation of the pension base. However, the reform also raises a lot of doubts because the solutions to these objectives remain blurred. There is doubt that, such as these, they will produce satisfactory, fair and just results. The reform of the pension system should be consistent with the relevant reforms in the labour market and wage systems. If there are no jobs for young people, how will they be for older workers? If wages are miserable, what can be expected of pensions? The question is, can we only do enough by reforming the pension system so that people can live decently from their cradle to their grave?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister! The Slovenian national party will not change its opinion, its judgement and its decision. In the Slovenian National Party, we will re-vote against the proposed law – the Pension and Disability Insurance Act 2. We're basing our "no." In the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Government opinion, which are identical, it is stated that the State must pursue 2 main objectives in determining the parameters of the pension system: the financial sustainability of the system and the adequacy of pensions. In addition, the Government and the Ministry argue that the ZPIZ-1 pursued only the financial sustainability of the system and that the ZPIZ-2 should pay more attention to the suitability of pensions. If this were the case, the DeSUS proposal would have been adopted to make the accounting ratio 70 to 30 not. Even more so, what bothers us in the Slovenian National Party is what is stated in the paragraphs: because of the smaller number of active workers it is necessary to provide pensions to a greater number of inactive ones, the ratio will fall and so on. The truth is a completely different, smaller number of people with modern technology, which Slovenia has, makes and generates more income than a large number of people with poor technology. That's not the problem. The problem is that the revenue created was not fairly distributed. He was not justly distributed! If a thousand people created 100 units earlier with old machines, today 100 people create a thousand units, the same. But since income, 10 people have bumped into 900 units, and 10 units remain poor and a pension fund, which is one of the 4 states. Because there is no equitable distribution of income, we will not change the pension law or worse. Worse! The international situation of Slovenia is expected to deteriorate if we do not adopt this law, and this has led to a crisis of public finances. Yeah, of course, a little tomorrow! The euro countries have around 86 to 90% of the gross social product of public debt. Slovenia, however, has slightly less than 50%. I don't track that country that has a public debt of 80% or more. In no country did I see a change in pension reform, in none! Slovenia, which has 50% below 60%, which is still acceptable to the fiscal world, will now, at the expense of pension reform and at the expense of Slovenia and Slovenians, spatter for those who have 80, 90% of public debt and enjoy well. They have a thousand 500 euros to pay, they don't care, they protest, and then they're pulling another thousand 200, a thousand 300 euros in pensions forward, and the Slovenians are going to pay for it. Not by chance. At least we will not come to this in the Slovenian National Party and the whole party is dedicated to how we will cause the crisis to public finances and we list 60% of the restrictions, 80%. What's gonna happen? Nothing's gonna happen, nothing at all. In 1 year, we will have a health reform, because we will again, so that we will have a good credit rating, we will accept and we will be back in favour of, we will harm the people again, and we will lose anything. A municipal cashier like 3 is already being reduced in one way or another at the expense of some of the credits we give to those who have 80 % and 90 % of the public debt. And on that account? In the Slovenian National Party for the above reasons, we oppose the law. They would be for him if this law were really and only good for the Slovenes and written for the good of the Slovenian people. This law is written for the well-charge of foreign banks, which have been doing wrong abroad, where they have a public debt of 80 per cent or more. That's where the money's gonna go. But we're going to take it to the Slovenes and the Slovenes and future generations in 40, 50 years, not to mention those people who won't be able to do what they're doing today with 58.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u20	Your Honor! Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will once again vote in favour of the law, as the arguments put forward by the State Council were not such as to limit the need to create a better situation for the pension fund and to ensure stability for at least 10 to 15 years, as the Minister now says, that this will succeed under this law, although ambitions were greater. We are pleased that the state pension has remained in law, that we have taken at least a step towards the recognition of justice to those who have served in the Yugoslav Army, so that this can be taken into account as a relief. True, it is only in half that a period in which a person can retire can be cut short. The fact is that some things have been done that are going in the direction of cleavage to alleviate certain conditions. We also believe that, in the future, with all trends both demographic and financial, the intervention is likely to need to be repeated. Those indications that remain and compromises that have not been possible with certain social groups, both with the workers and with the employers as a whole, will also be possible in the coming period. However, the fact is that what needs to be done is now being done, and we therefore believe that no referendum will be needed further and that the reform will enter into force with 1. 1st of next year. Of course, this is not possible now with the forecast of signature collection, but we can also stop here, because it is no longer in our hands to decide how and how this law will be implemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Before I give the word "magic." Mr Znidaršič, let me remind you that the debate between Members and Members on the veto is not possible and that we will proceed to a decision immediately after the presentation of the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Mr. Mag. Franz Žnidaršič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u22	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament did not reach a consensus on the support of this law. We understand that pension reform needs to be adopted, but unfortunately there is no likelihood that enforcement will take place in the next 2 years, as there will be a threatened referendum, and in my personal opinion there is very little possibility that the referendum will be banned by the Constitutional Court. What will be the result of the referendum is known because, according to public research, over 60% of those who oppose the law are. In this case, unfortunately, it is not a matter of whether the law is substantively bad or good. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that, at the time of its consideration, it has experienced positive changes in favour of those concerned, but it is a fact that most are not satisfied with it. The applicant did not know for months whether or not he wanted to report that the Association of Retired Persons agrees with the solutions, so the current pensioner also became questionable and from here public opinion, the majority support for refusing the application of this law. On the part of the Association of Retired Persons, there were no public requests to support this solution in their favour. The proposer could not convince the unions of the usefulness of the necessary changes or expose their destructive activities and the fragmentation of their persistent arguments. Nor did the Council of State use convincing arguments for us. The change is therefore too great and unacceptable for those who are supposed to pay, that is to say for the employees. That's why the referendum is going to be, so four and a half million costs and a bitter end to a good idea. In order for the pension reform to take place at least at a time of delay, it is therefore better, in my separate opinion, that the law should fall and be prepared in the middle of the year, a new one that could be enforced this year. That is why I cannot support this story alone, and the same is true for another colleague, and the third probably supports this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and are moving on to a decision on that law. On behalf of the Emissary Group? Does anyone want to do it on behalf of the Member of Parliament? Then I open the time to apply for explanations of vote on behalf of the groups of Members. Here you go. I apologize, once again – the start of an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Check-in is on. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the Ambassador of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Members of the DeSUS report back and forth with arguments to Slovenia, colleagues and colleagues, especially pensioners and pensioners, that we will not support this law. We are all aware that pension reform is necessary and necessary, but not as this law foresees. Why don't we support this marriage? No comments were received during the whole year of coordination between Members of the DeSUS and the proposer. Moreover, when we agreed on a percentage of 70:30 reconciliation of pensions with wage growth and cost of living, this was agreed. The minister himself dropped it back to 60:40, which means the Swiss formula for the coordination of pensions. Let me also point out that the difference of 10% between 60 and 70 amounts to EUR 120 million per year. Which means in 4 years almost 500 million or that pensioners repay a complex Greek debt. We can't support this. We've made the poorest layer of people even poorer. With all responsibility in the DeSUS Group, we tell the Slovenian public and the pensioners that we cannot support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will explain the vote on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, as at the 3rd reading this time, we will vote again in favour of this reform because we are aware of the situation in the pension register and that this is in fact the only option, and above all the only rational solution. It is rational because it tightens the conditions of retirement and is in line with the reforms that are taking place in all European countries today. We need to be aware, this has already been mentioned several times, that at this time 1.6 employees are employed for one pensioner and that the trend according to demographics is that in 2040 we will have a relationship when one employee works for one pensioner. One will work for two. This account can never and never come out if we don't reach into this computer. Nor can it stand for the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. As an expert in this area argues, Mr Malačič, Europe still has 3 to 4 employees per pensioner. Nevertheless, there are serious reforms in Europe. Half the countries in the European Union already have 65 years of legislation at this time, or reforms are under way to legitimize those 65 years for both sexes. At this point, EUR 1.3 billion from the budget goes to the pension fund as well. If we do not reform, this share of the budget in the pension fund will increase further. A billion there, a billion credits. It must be borne in mind that serious steps must be taken to prevent this country from really being brought to ruin. Especially because of the situation in Slovenia and not only because of the situation in Slovenia, but also because of the serious problems that other European countries have, which could also result in the potential weakening of the stability of the euro. Believe me, we'll be alone again in Slovenia. Let us rely on our own knowledge and our own conduct. I am aware that this reform is not ideal and is not the best. But such a reform will never be ideal and will never be the best, not in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? I see more interests, so I'm giving time to make a statement on my own behalf. Please sign in. The first one has the floor, Mr. Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have not supported this marriage, as it has been so far, and I do not intend to support it now. I am convinced that during these two years, this government has adopted virtually nothing but legislation that burdens people and pushes them into ever greater misery and poverty. She proved this by using all these apps she used when she freezes pensions, wages, raises excise duties on oil derivatives, increases penalties and so on. It is the measures that burden the Slovenian man. I am sure that Slovenians and Slovenians of such a government and coalition certainly did not want to, and even less, they earned. Of course, I will not support the law because this law is not in line with the social partners. Anyone who wants to be coordinated here can talk, but they're not. It's proven that it isn't. Today, the president of the Free Trade Unions Union also performed here, where he made it very clear that they strongly oppose this law. This law is also strongly opposed by the State Council and I cannot believe that this ideological concrete here in this Parliament and this government has not yet given in, it is unbelievable that it has not yet given in. You insist and do everything that is to the detriment of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. You're doing all that. Instead of looking for solutions where we should be looking for them. But solutions could be searched there so that we don't have 120,000 unemployed today. Give them a job, set the conditions. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u29	Mr Pojbič, the explanation is your position, not the criticism of others, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u30	Mr Vice President, I'm talking about my position. I am talking about the wrong way in which the current government is solving this issue in this country. Wrong approach. Morals and duties would be required to work where better conditions would be provided, people would have a job, they would have a job, they would have paid contributions where people would not wait 10 months to pay and so on. If we did this, today's pension reform would not be necessary, so I will vote against such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Pojbich. Mr Franz Žnidaršič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u32	Thank you very much. There is no guarantee that the Constitutional Court will delay the implementation of this referendum, which is announced. It is therefore not acceptable for me to spend the 4.5 million money that is missing today for all those who are in poverty and who are barely coming. Although most citizens do not know the content of the law, I fear that this vote against the referendum will be uncritical and, of course, with the foretold and possible consequences in the sense that the law cannot be enforced and that even in this term, even if it lasts to the end, we will not be able to adopt it. Since there will be no enforcement, it is better to make a new effort to reach at least a minimum agreement with the employees who will pay for this matter. In this regard, it would suggest that certain solutions should be made in such a way that the effect of the law would not suffer, but that a step should be taken again before 10 years later. In this way, we would achieve the same goals in a consensual manner, which, for example, was achieved in the past reform, even though it was very difficult at the time, and yet the reform achieved the announced results. These are the reasons why I think it is better to adopt a new law in a shorter time than it will be necessary to enforce it as a new one if there is a referendum that will certainly break what you confirm today. Thank you. That's why I won't support him.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Mirko Brulc will explain his vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The representative of the Council of State, trade unionist and longstanding politicians was not prepared to listen to arguments as to why pension legislation was necessary. Who in this country claims that the Minister and the Government are not for dialogue? Because of the threats by the referendum and the same people with threats of throwing the dice into Parliament, I will not vote any differently than I am. Of course, I will support the law, but I'm sure DeSUS will have to vote without my vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres will explain his voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u36	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My view of this matter is that I claim that we will be buried by our own egoism. 20 years ago, we resisted egotism that would destroy us, and that's when we did the right thing. Today, though, I have a feeling that our own egoism will devour us. Elite simply took too much of herself, and what was worse, even what they had mastered, controlled badly, and there was nothing left. It's just an army of unemployed, empty cash registers, no positive energy, unrecovered contributions, and I could still list it. It is true, however, that in our Group of Members, we have decided to support this law at this time because it is necessary and necessary for us to adopt it. In the future, there will also be a need to talk about difficult jobs to talk about, where it will be difficult to work until such a high age. We were talking about a beneficiary working time that might even need to be legalised. Usually these jobs, which are difficult jobs, are also the worst paid jobs and would not be a problem to increase contributions by any percentage. I could also say that we could talk about filling these difficult jobs at 40 or 41 years of age so that they can retire regardless of age. I want to say that if we adopt this law, we can also change it further, correct it, and hope that we will be able to help with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Grimes will explain his vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u38	Your Honor! My vote against this law will be a voice against a policy that has repeatedly given people a signal that has led them first to the Employment Institute and then to early retirement. This has caused irreparable developmental damage to the country of Slovenia, which will be paid especially by small and medium-sized enterprises, and with a lower quality of life we will all pay. My voice will also be a signal to the Government, which burns all the red lights on the traffic lights, that it has become an integral part of the problem and not its solution, that it has become a bar in the system and that it will have to act significantly differently in the future. At the same time, my voice will express the sincere desire for people to spend a peaceful Christmas in the circle of their families, to celebrate the 20th anniversary of plebiscite, a day of independence and unity, to which I sincerely congratulate and have as much happiness, health and joy as possible in the new year 2011. However, I sincerely wish our government that Christmas under the trees bring as few strange powders and alcohol as possible good proposals for reviving the Slovenian economy and for a better life for all people. Good luck.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u39	Thank you very much. I saw one more report. There's more reports. I'm giving time to apply for an explanation of vote on my own behalf. Here you go. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u40	Your Honor, the vice president. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party, at the time of the adoption of pension legislation, we have been actively involved and engaged in this cooperation and dialogue with the Ministry, which has done this great work with the desire to finally adopt the best possible reform supported by as many Members and Members as possible. I don't know how those who are voting against today or those who have vetoed have no time to hear our explanations today. However, what has been said to the Minister that he does not know how to talk can be denied on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party and I say that this has been a constructive cooperation and in this cooperation we have been able to correct something in the law. Thus came the rights of mothers, and the law also came into existence with the stages of retirement, a gradual rise in the law being said, but above all it was important for us that we were finally able to enforce the retention of state pensions in pension legislation. Our eyesight goes mainly to smallpoxes and bonuses, I think there's still a lot to fix, and that's all that's waiting for us in the future. We are aware, however, that our system is such that those who work contribute to the pension fund and that today the situation is such that there is a shortage of as much as 30% of the pension fund from the contributions and therefore those who work have to pay about 15% of the state pension budget. We fear that such a system cannot last for a long time and therefore we are convinced that, in addition to the other steps that we expect the Government to take in the future, such a step will be necessary, despite the fact that we are all aware that this is not a step that brings some great positive effects on the short term, nor does it bring political points. From the outset, however, we have said that we will act responsibly in this national assembly, and in the most challenging decisions we have also cooperated with the Government, which we do not agree with, which we do not intend to enter into and to which we share a number of observations as well, but at this point I think we have to go back to Slovenia and Slovenia after 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Magajna will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u42	Your Honor! A voice against both sides is a voice against the policy of adhering to the Directives. The International Financial Fund, the World Trade Organisation, the OECD, various directives, the recommendations guide our policy. A while ago, Mr Semolič also pointed out the Small Work Act, which has much to do with the OECD Directives after the implementation of the short, temporary works which are tax-effective for employers. That's what we're following. Yesterday, the 90-member festive speaker pointed out that she did not imagine in her dreams how we blindly follow the directives of the capital, which aims to cut costs mainly for workers and pensioners. The rejection of this law would allow at this stage, as Mr Franz Žnidarsic has already pointed out, for a short period of time, to join the broader consensus of such important reforms ahead of us. Blind and official monitoring of directives may also be in favour of a particular lobby in Slovenia, which is very strong, has authority, this is a diplomatic career lobby, which also thinks about its future career abroad, but does not think enough about the general public interest.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rozej will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. If I were to object to the reconciliation of pensions with salaries according to the formula 60:40, which is not a Swiss formula, but is much more favourable. If I did not object when the time was right when we voted on this amendment, but would abstain, then I would rather be silent with such a quasi argument and not justify my opposition to pension reform on the grounds that I was not paying attention to my parliamentary work. Who in a country where medical bills are paid, for example, after-service payments, but for the presence of fathers in childbirth, thinks that the burdens between generations are fairly divided, that he should vote against this pension reform. Of course I can't do that. Whoever votes against such a pension reform will also vote in favour of the fall of Slovenia on a number of scales, and I therefore hope that he will never again blame the government, but will attribute this guilt to himself. The one who, when he could, didn't do what he should do, I don't think he has any right to interfere with anything he does now. I will always help the government when it makes such reforms that will place a more equitable burden on generations, especially on those generations whose voices are not heard here. If we do not bring down the reforms, this voice will never be heard, because these generations will never be. At least they won't live at our house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Jurša will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I must say, we have been constructively involved in the drafting of the law. But I will tell you the reasons why I will not vote in favour of this law. For the first time, because in the DeSUS Group we had a request to begin with – under the terms of – coordination of pensions in the 80:20 ratio, that we subsequently agreed for 70:30, because we were not - under the terms - obedient, but at the expense of the fact that I too was personally sent from coalition coordination, the formula was 60:40. That's the first reason. The second reason is that the resources of Kada are strictly intended to coordinate pensions annually at 50 million levels, and we need 32 million annually for the coordination we have proposed. Thirdly, because he takes those who live below the threshold of poverty. We should take those who have much more because young people are out of work and old people should go to work with crutches. Let us not forget that there are construction workers, workers in the heavy industry and so on. Workers do not pay the same contribution as employees, and individuals in the National Assembly threaten and link things to other things. Mostly because of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. France Tsukati will explain his vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. The reform of the pension system is certainly necessary. Even more urgent is respect for constitutional rights, fairness and a rational approach to the whole issue. It is not enough to limit the output, the withdrawal of funds and money from the pension fund, and it is also necessary to focus on income, entry, acquisition of these funds, new jobs and new jobs. When I speak of justice, gentlemen, if the rights in which workers have believed so far have been believed in the rule of law and in the current law, suddenly withdrawn, this is a real violation of the constitutional principle of the protection of human rights. The only thing that has been achieved is that those state pensions that have already been granted remain. Of course, otherwise the next day in the Constitutional Court would have fallen. And no new state pension will be given under the new law, and it's gone. It is also not going to be, because we said, if there is not enough resources, that right will not be given to workers who have been expected to benefit from a working period. These funds have never been decided by any employee, no union, no one, except the State, has established a contribution rate which is half the lower. Certainly, gentlemen, if the Government does not know how to design such a pension reform that would take into account the need to supply new funds and also the fair burden of all categories of insurers, then do not do so. Then let us reject this law, and I will oppose the hope that this government will meet with intelligence and will take a more holistic approach to resolving this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-23-SDZ5-Izredna-37.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a re-decision on the bill. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 30. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 37th meeting of the National Assembly. Members and Members of Parliament, please take all the materials out of the hall for the preparation of the hall for the festive session and I expect to see you at the festive session tonight. Thank you very much. The meeting ended on 23 December 2010 at 12.58 p.m.
