ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 34th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Mag. Andreja Richter, Franz Bogovich, Franz Pukšič, Janez Ribič, Matjaž Zanoškar, Dr. Vinko Gorenak, mag. Andrej Vizjak, Daniel Krivec, Branko Marinič, Marijan Pojbič, mag. Radovan Žerjav, mag. Franz Žnidaršič, Janez Janša and Robert Hrovat. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Land Book Act. The State Council is at its 26th extraordinary session. 11. 2010 demanded that the National Assembly, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, decide again before publication on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Land Book Act. To explain the Council's request, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Godomir the Grandchild. Please, Mr. Grandchild.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Ambassadors and Members, Mr. Minister. The main reasons for the veto are as follows. Under the new regime, it will no longer be possible for each interested party to propose, on its own and free of charge, the entry of all real and binding legal contracts into the Land Book. While the Council of State supports solutions relating to the electronic submission of proposals, the proposed regulation in the new 125.a. until the end of the year is authorised by the notary under which the compulsory electronic submission of writing is authorised by the notary [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u3	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u4	State or municipal law is a disproportionate measure in the context of post-supply capacity. [[...]] The Council of State considers that a land policy proposal could also be submitted by a congregation or anyone who has a legal interest. Local communities or municipalities have so far regulated and prepared proposals for the registration of property and other rights in the land register and are obliged to keep records of their properties. In doing so, it should be pointed out that local communities do not have the financial resources necessary to prepare proposals for entries in the Land Book by notaries or lawyers. The assessment based on the analysis of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is that new compulsory investment services through notary and lawyers for citizens and citizens, craftsmen, entrepreneurs, municipalities and other entities will be significantly more expensive. After their analysis, there are approximately 30 million euros per year. The Council of State considers that any interested party to the Land Book could propose, on its own and free of charge, the entry into force of all real-law and bond contracts, as has been the case so far. The Council of State also notes the news that the originals of the treaties in the so-called Charter Collection will no longer be stored in the courts, and believes that this will no longer guarantee transparency and legal certainty, because the parties in the real estate business will be insecure and confused, because they will not know where they can obtain the contracts of legal ancestors for each property, and as a result this means a substantial number of legal disputes and thus more backlogs. We also believe that the law has been adopted without the need for a broader public debate. The professional public had only limited opportunities to comment. Operators, in particular notaries, have also not been asked whether the tasks imposed by the new law are technically and humanely capable. The law also does not eliminate inconsistencies between the cadastral and the land register, i.e. between the two public books, which has proved to be a major problem in the national valuation of real estate, since one third of the objections addressed to GURS relate to ownership or is linked to the ownership of these properties. It is also unclear in such a project why the entire registration of rights and legal facts in the book is not carried out electronically by notaries exercising public powers and generally having higher professional competence and education than the statutory judicial assistants and why the Notary Chamber is not required to maintain an original collection of documents which is the basis for the incorporation of rights and legal facts into the Land Book. In view of the above, we believe that there is no need for the adoption or approval of the law, although it also brings good solutions. It would be more useful to wait and pass a single property record law or combine a cadastral and land book into a single public book. Due to all these problems and concerns, in particular due to the inadequate solution that deprives any interested party of the possibility of, as so far as it has been free and free, proposing the entry into force of all real and binding legal instruments which will have to be paid or paid financially by the new law, we demand that the National Assembly decide again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The request was addressed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as the parent working body. I give the floor to Vice-President Anton Kolaric for the presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! At its 43rd emergency meeting today, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice considered the demands of the Council of State to re-decision the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Land Book Act, adopted by the National Assembly on 23 November 2010. The Committee was informed of the request of the State Council, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Government. Mr Bogomir Vnučec, the State Councillor, took part in the meeting and presented the views he had taken just before me, so that he would not repeat them. In presenting their written opinion, the Law-Legal Service pointed out that only notaries, and to a lesser extent lawyers and lawyers, should be further explained in the course of its consideration of the draft law. In the discussion on the working body, the proposalr's representative explained the reasons for the legal changes more broadly. Mr Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice, was the representative of the proposed committee, who, in the context of the presentation of the written opinion of the Government on the request of the State Council, said that the law changes the way in which real rights are entered into the land book as it is fully informed. In doing so, the applicant shall implement the e-justice project and shall follow the objective of the e-mail in all judicial proceedings. In view of the limitations on postulational capacity, he pointed to a three-year transitional period in which customers — natural and legal persons — could still directly propose the entry of ownership rights into their own favour. He pointed out that as of today, most of the entries in the land book that the court does not carry out on official duty, which is about 30% of the entries, are made through notaries and lawyers. With a view to informing the Land Book, which can begin to take place immediately after the law has been enacted and will be comparable to the already-informed Court Register, in accordance with the principle of legal certainty, the power to submit applications for entry into the Land Book and for the electronic conversion of documents which are the basis for the registration given only to persons with public authority: notary, lawyer and lawyer. It also pointed out a reduction in the rate of duty and the notary tariff in the Land Book Procedures, and therefore there is no justification for the evidence of the higher costs presented. In the debate, opposition Members opposed the legal solutions that restrict post-election capacity, as they thought notaries and lawyers should be monopolized and the parties should be able to do so. However, the coalition MPs supported the law, as legal certainty is enhanced by cheaper and simplified land-booking procedures. Following the discussion, the Committee adopted the following opinion by a majority of all members, 9 votes and 6 against: The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Land Book Act is appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u7	Thank you very much. For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government as a bill-maker. Aleš Zalar, Minister of Justice, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is rare that a change within the state authority allows three good things to happen at the same time: that the service becomes cheaper for citizens, that the service becomes faster and that the service becomes better. That's what this law guarantees. More expensive because we have significantly reduced the notary tariffs, so that, for example, the proposal for entry into the land book at the value of the 2000 euro notary property, together with the value added tax, will charge €6 if it is to buy a 100 000 euro wardrobe, the notary will charge €44 in addition to the value added tax. These are low amounts which, in addition, are reduced in terms of costs for citizens. Not only have they been reduced, judicial fees have been abolished for all those citizens who are at the edge of the social minimum who receive state financial social assistance. These citizens will not pay any more fees from now on. This service is significantly cheaper for all categories of citizens, regardless of whether an individual submits a land book proposal himself, which he will still be able to do during a three-year transitional period, or whether he will file it through a notary, for example. When it comes to raising quality, we are primarily concerned with legal certainty. It is extremely important that the land book shows a realistic and up-to-date situation with regard to real property rights. This law will ensure that, from now on, land-book courts will make decisions much faster – within four days, they need an average of a month and a half to two. And even when it comes to quality. It is important that the Land Book proposals are submitted by persons with public powers, i.e. notaries, state lawyers, municipal attorneys, here the applicant has taken into account the comments of the municipalities and, with the amendment adopted by the National Assembly, has supported a solution so that either individual municipalities or more of them, if they so decide, can appoint a municipal lawyer who will be able to make such proposals directly. It is very important that the judicial system is ready for this reform and the Supreme Court ensures that it has carried out and is still carrying out systematic training of land-books referees who will be fully prepared to take on this important task. In Slovenia, while notaries are now making more than half of the land book proposals, it has been mentioned that more than a third of them are being submitted on official duty by the courts themselves. And even if it happens during a transitional three-year period, that the scope of land-book proposals that individuals, natural or legal persons will still be able to make directly, so beyond notaries, at the end of this three-year period is still relatively large, the Government will, of course, propose an appropriate extension of this previous period. Expectations are different, but this option is open and I want to put it in particular here. With regard to the retention of documents, let me stress that the custody remains in the courts. More. Today, there is a storage facility in 45 district courts, and from now on, there will be a safe house at the Supreme Court. It is a storage of original documents that will be converted into electronic form, so there is no need for notaries to store these originals. On the contrary. This ensures a higher level of legal certainty in the country in general. I believe that the great added value of this novel law is another one that may have been under-spoken. Members of the Hungarian and Italian national communities will from now on be able to receive land-book proposals in their native language. So far, the regulations in the Republic of Slovenia, when it came to the land book, have not provided them. This change of law in relation to the electronic system we have prepared makes it possible. That's why I'm asking you to support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u9	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the distinguished Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The DeSUS Group endorsed the proposed amendments to the Land Book Act for the purpose of optimising and informing the processes in land-book matters and thereby increasing the effectiveness of the courts in these proceedings, speeding up the resolution of judicial backlogs and shortening the duration of these proceedings. However, we have already expressed doubts about the proposed solutions, in the direction of whether these concrete solutions also follow the principle of a more friendly and more cost-effective procedure or the implementation of these procedures, or whether the introduction of qualified investors in land-book matters interferes with the individual's right to be free and voluntarily or under the authority designated by him, and it is not necessarily that he is a lawyer or notary, to put writings into these proceedings. Not only us, but also the Legal and Legislative Service has warned that the reasons for such an arrangement should be further clarified. We are now invited by the state councils to reconsider this issue. We also remind Members of DeSUS again of the promotion of the procedures for the registration of property of minor values, which will be more expensive from a cost perspective for an individual, while higher value registration procedures are valued. But we know who else can afford greater property today. This is certainly not a good trip, regardless of whether the client's procedure will be more expensive for just a few euros. At least at a time when he shouldn't be looking for extra pressure on people. Let me finish. Members of the DeSUS generally support the information process of the Land Book, but we are still sceptical about the proposaler's claim that such an introduction does not constitute an increase in the costs of the parties and about the interference with the rights of an individual or a legal person to invest the necessary writing in these procedures. Members of the DeSus will give our votes for the second time in support of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silen Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u12	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Secretary-General! The current Land Book Act provides that proposals in classical form can be proposed by all. According to the new report, only notaries and lawyers could do this in electronic form. The applicant explains that the data on the real estate holder was entered only once, allowing the procedure to be rationalised, but that the proposed amendment no longer required the Land Book Deposit, allowing for easier verification with the Land Catastrophe and with the State Catastrophe and a more transparent land book management system. In order to fully inform all procedures for the implementation and decision-making of entries, the applicant has laid down completely new rules. The electronic submission of land-book proposals and other applications shall be introduced and submitted by notaries, lawyers or lawyers who will also be the sole legal representative. As the applicant points out, it is a matter of modernising and rationalising the conduct of court proceedings in land-book matters. As noted in the proposal, all matters shall be submitted in an electronic copy certified by the notary as a person with public authority by electronic signature. It is envisaged that, on the basis of such operations, the costs and costs of service will also be reduced and that the professional public does not agree. The written roles of the participants will be accepted by one central depository, of course this is not a matter for applications that go through authorised representatives. Only notaries and lawyers will deal with the services after the transitional period. It is obviously a monopolization of lawyers and notaries, which is not agreed by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, as well as by the municipalities. The law does not solve the problem of monopolisation and bottlenecks and does not contain the effects of new regulations on the economy. The preparation did not take into account the profession that offered improvements that would allow faster integration into the space, which is certainly a problem. The applicant explains that the aim of the amendment is to simplify the registration procedure in the Land Book, thereby enhancing the legal security of individuals in legal traffic with real estate and improving the formalisation stages that have already been initiated, which makes it very difficult for the Legislative and Legal Service to point out that this is an essential breach of the Land Book Act. It is not only editorial corrections, but amendments and additions that eliminate the ten-year understanding of certain elements of the land book. It also points to the short period of transition from one arrangement to another, and to the marginal information of people who are not fully aware of the fact that you are only owner by entering the land book. The electronicization of the land of the book is a sure gain, but some uncertainties still need to be addressed and corrected, for the previous law is not so bad that it needs to be amended immediately. We will therefore not support the proposed law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! The Land Book Act, which has already been adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, brings many benefits to citizens and citizens. It accelerates and simplifies the registration process in the Land Book, increases the legal security of individuals in legal traffic with real estate, introduces solutions that provide customers with greater legal certainty with cheaper services, reduces the time taken to decide on land-book matters, regardless of the place or location of the property, comprehensively informs all processes and introduces a computerised collection of documents and ensures greater accessibility of the Land Book, that is, free of charge obtaining a regular or historical copy from the Land Book via the electronic land book website. At the same time, it should be pointed out that, at the same time as the Land Book Act, in the legislative procedure, there was also a amendment to the Law on Judicial Fees, which severely lowers the existing system of judicial fees in land-book proceedings. Both laws represent a logical integrity that gives users and users a better service than before at a lower price than today. We will therefore once again support the proposal of the law in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I should like to present my own brief presentation of the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members – Solidarity, which will, for the introduction, back up the bill, while retaining the many concerns that we have already expressed before. We have closely followed the comments made by the various organisations, either that they were economic organisations, or individuals, experts, or local communities, and the arguments by which the applicant rejected these comments. All the arguments of the applicant did not seem to be of adequate weight, and some of the comments are those which we have also considered to be worth listening to and, if possible, even implementing. We were most disappointed at the fact that part of the economic operators that had dealt with this before had been excluded from the business cycle and that we are convinced that this business is not controlled by those who have made many incomplete proposals that have been tabled. We were also disturbed by the stubborn insistence from the outset to limit the circle as far as local communities were concerned, but we were less disturbed by the fact that individual citizens were directly making proposals, since there was probably a small but still part of the grey economy behind such proposals. And from here perhaps most of the roles that have been incomplete. Otherwise, when we weighed whether to support or not this bill, we tried to rethink the objectives set by the proposer. Informationisation, continued informationisation, which has been successfully launched, of course we support, the reduction in the number of incomplete applications as well. And both of them, of course, reduce the burden of the courts. We support that, too. We also support this and believe that time will shrink dramatically and that the costs for investors will also be lower. But we are also convinced that if economic operators would also be involved in the future, which have the right to submit these proposals, and were able to adapt to market conditions and adjust prices accordingly, they would not be the ones who would increase the price for our citizens and citizens. Since it is therefore the view of the proposaler to shorten procedures, to reduce the price of services, so that legal certainty is greater, we will once again support this proposal of the law. We ask ourselves if the law will be adopted, whether there will be a need to make a novel soon, which will also allow others to make such proposals for land-reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of National Communities will be presented by László Göncz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The adoption of the Land Book Act, which, among other things, provides for significant substantive changes in the way in which land-book changes are tabled, is a difficult decision. In the past weeks, various information has also come to us in relation to the proposed solutions during the examination phase of the law. Some observations, which point to certain inconsistencies and possible consequences, are also justified in our opinion. Otherwise, we believe that, in principle, it cannot be disputed that, on the basis of the proposed law, the way of making changes and certain other substantive solutions relating to the land book in the Republic of Slovenia will be uniform. In this regard, it should be pointed out from the point of view of our Group that the specificities, for example, the specificities of bilingual transactions in national mixed areas, must also be fully respected under the new legal provision, irrespective of the fact that, after the new amendments made before the final registration into the Land Book, they will be dispersed across different offices across Slovenia. In this regard, the gentleman in the introduction also specifically mentioned respect for this provision and let us hope that this will be the case. As a potential problem of a professional nature, a short period of transitional period is also mentioned after the new law's jurisdiction. We believe that this comment is justified as the 15-day period for the examination of professional services is more than too short. Some believe that it is necessary to set a half-year or at least a few months, as well as adequate professional education for employees, which could make the introduction of the new system more difficult. By the way, it should also be noted that in most land book exhibitions or offices where the maximum engagement takes place today, they operate smoothly or are part of the task and do not have any delays, so to speak. Unfortunately, some are far behind, especially in the largest centres. It is true that there is a three-year transitional period for individuals to make land-book changes. Nevertheless, it is recalled that this period will need to be monitored separately, any difficulties analysed and any objective inconsistencies or damage from the point of view of individuals will need to be complemented and amended if necessary. The question of the reality of valuation in smaller values, in our view, also remains open. For example, some farmers are known to make hundreds of applications a year. In such cases, there may be unsustainable financial consequences due to the cost of making a change. The law brings important substantive changes and, in the case of certain provisions, it is difficult to say in advance whether they will actually bring only positive solutions. Therefore, if the law is approved today, the process of a new way of implementing land-book changes will need to be closely monitored and upgraded if necessary. We in the parliamentary group will decide on our own conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u20	Good-bye to all of you again! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Land Book Act, which is the subject of a multi-month debate in the National Assembly, will be reiterated in the Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats. In the general debate in the Group of Social Democrats, we supported the proposed changes, despite the fact that we had some concerns in the first phase about the preservation of documents and on the submission of land-book proposals only by notaries. Through the adoption process, we have achieved with additions that all documents that are the basis for allowing entry into the land book will be converted into electronic form and will be included in the electronic document collection. The basic collection of documents will therefore no longer be a physical collection of documents, but an electronic collection of documents and electronic preservation of documents will be under the control and protection of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also possible for lawyers, state lawyers, municipal attorneys to make public proposals. As mentioned earlier today, a three-year transitional period is envisaged for the parties, in spite of the introduction of information, if they so wish, to submit a physical proposal to the competent court, i.e. the court in which the property is located. The amendment to the Land Book Act, which we are reviewing today, is about upgrading and completing the initial phases of the informationisation of the land book brought by novels A and B and the final phase of the procedures that started in 2003. As the amendments and additions to the land book go towards accelerating and simplifying the registration process in the Land Book and thereby increasing the legal security of individuals in legal traffic with real estate, we will re-support the proposed amendment to the Land Book Act, as I said in the introduction, in the Social Democrats Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jožef Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, in re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Land Book, we will vote against the enforcement of the law because the law in some segments is harmful to the parties and written for the interests of the Notary and Lawyer's Cartel. In the parliamentary group, we agree with the update and information of the land book, with the possibility of electronic submission of land-book proposals and the electronic operation of the land-book, but we are opposed to the fact that post-investment of land-book proposals will be mandatory only for professionals, both for natural persons and for legal persons and local communities. So far, anyone with a legal interest has been able to make land-book proposals on his own. In the future, the government should also encourage the self-regulation of certain administrative or judicial tasks by citizens, as this increases the level of legal culture and general knowledge and prevents abuses related to judicial records. In addition to restricting the so-called post-location capacity of individuals and legal persons in this case, the Government is seeking such a solution to make it consciously possible to make extra profits for the characteristics of notaries and lawyers. Such conduct is offensive to Slovenian citizens, underestimating their legal culture and technical and general knowledge, as they are considered by the Government to be incompetent. From Mary Teresa to this day, Slovenians have not been given such a humiliating attitude by the state authorities. According to the Economic Chamber of Slovenia, new compulsory investment services through notaries and lawyers for citizens, craftsmen, entrepreneurs, municipalities, institutions, economic services will be significantly more expensive. All these entities will be harmed annually by EUR 30 million, which means EUR 30 million in additional profits for notaries and lawyers. This is the direct government poverty of citizens, economic operators and self-government communities, in particular municipalities. It is a conscious exploitation of so unemployed, socially endangered citizens, from young people to pensioners, workers and farmers, craftsmen, municipalities, economies and other entities. For several template clicks on the computer and the production of a land book proposal, the government gives 30 million Euros of additional profits to the selected asset. This will make the service more expensive for most investors. This is a similar service, such as the unnecessary car sticker introduced by the LDS government for the profits of its constituents years ago. In view of the unacceptable and inadequate solution, the law should be rejected in the light of the opinion of the SDS Group of Members in re-decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Tadej Slapnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u24	Mr President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Today we are re-examined by the Land Book Act. While the applicants are aware of the solutions relating to the electronic submission of applications for entry into the Land Book, they agree and oppose the provisions under which notaries, lawyers and lawyers are authorised to make proposals. While supporting efforts to implement the system, information and programming solutions needed for the comprehensive informationisation of the land book, the Council supports the efforts of the State Council. We also have some reservations about the proposed law in the Group of Members. The most open issues are certainly about the right to make land-book proposals, and we have therefore proposed three-year transitional reflections to the ministry. We are pleased that our amendment has been duly taken into account in the novel and that individuals will be able to make their own proposals in court within the next three years. However, more modern investment will also be possible, which will be exactly the same or lower, but at the same time much faster, safe and effective. During this transitional period, it will also show what the actual costs of an investment will be for an individual and whether further amendments to this law or others, related or subordinated, may be necessary. It should be pointed out that the new policy of the Law on the Land Book is the most important novelty in the Parliamentary Group. This is the informationisation of all processes related to the decision-making process for the registration of land documents collections without reservation. We also agree with the Ministry of Justice's argument that the electronic submission of proposals will allow citizens to do this matter much faster than they have done before. For now, according to the data of the Ministry of Justice, it takes more than a month for an individual procedure to enter the land book, and the Minister has announced a new reduction of up to four days. While we publicly support the informationisation of the processes, all the parliamentary groups in this national assembly are clearly aware of this. If the advantages of this law are to be realized in fact, the powers to manage these procedures must be entrusted to those who can do so in accordance with the Slovenian acquis. And these are the notaries. Confronting that electronic investment procedures should not be carried out by notaries at prices prescribed and restricted by the State is unprecedented. If you do not agree with the Slovenian legal order, in which notaries have their role of competence and responsibility, suggest a change of legislation and notaries simply cancel, but in this type of innovation think of other legal forms of authorised persons who will carry out their tasks in the future free of charge. You have not presented such proposals to the opposition parties. In fact, by unwarranted rejection of the amendment of the law, you prevent Slovenian citizens from doing registration procedures cheaper, faster and safer. You frighten citizens and prescribe them foolishly to provide lawyers for them at high prices instead of cheaper services by notaries. The fact is that individuals will decide for themselves whether to leave the entry of a land book proposal to notaries or lawyers on the basis of confidence in their work. It is far more responsible and fairer to warn citizens clearly and loudly that, in accordance with this law, these services can be provided by notaries at substantially lower prices. We will vote on the law in the Really Group – a new policy at our own discretion.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, Mr Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At the beginning of the mandate, the Government proposed to postpone the deadline for the application of those new rules of the Land Book Act relating to the submission of electronic land-book proposals and the introduction of general local jurisdiction from 1 May 2009 to 1 May 2011. We are pleased that the proposal is before us, because we are aware that solutions, the submission of electronic proposals and the elimination of local decision-making powers on land-book proposals are inseparably linked and that these changes require their time. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the introduction of electronic investment and the free computer file from the land book is a most welcome novelty. Certainly, in this current progress and technological ability, it makes sense for a bureaucrat to help himself. Unfortunately, the novel also has a negative sign due mainly to the obvious monopolisation of the simplest part of the land book procedure, namely the submission of a land book proposal. The current Land Book Act provides that the Land Book Proposals can be proposed in a classic form by all, and only notaries and lawyers can do so in electronic form. Courts are now responsible for the preservation of the original documents, and only notaries would take care of the new law, which would also charge the services of converting the ordinary charter into electronic. In any case, the proposaler advocates that he has the right to postpone certain judicial tasks to a notariat, and in the Slovenian People's Party we believe that in this case it is still a public service which should remain in the domain of public services. Applicant [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u27	May I have your attention in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u28	argues that the outcome of the novel will be favourable to the final user, but also to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly in its opinion calls on the proposer to respond more clearly to the indications that the proposed amendments will be more costly to regulate land-book matters. [[...]] The same applies to the evidence relating to the cost of keeping documents and the costs added by the amendment to the law to local communities. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are concerned that even in procedures where the country is obviously taking on rationalisation, a certain cost burden is being reduced, but in a particular case, the adoption of this law does not do much if the procedures are to be paid by citizens or investors and local communities. Not only did the bill not only respond to all the concerns about the novel, but it also completely overlooked the comments that have come from ten municipalities and the Association of Slovene municipalities, where the procedures are well known. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are certainly not excited about such a system of work, because obviously there is only one mind that knows and knows best, while the opinions of others as the lawmaker seem completely irrelevant. In many congregations, land - book proposals are now being prepared and invested alone, and the new proposal will only add to the costs to the congregations. An interesting attitude towards the municipalities is also reflected in the fact that the State has taken care of the State's procedures to carry out the State's defence, while local communities and citizens have to hire assistance in the form of legal representatives and notaries. Novilova is also strongly opposed by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. They argue that this will increase the costs for the economy, which we also agree with in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, and we expect the proposed amendment to come up with a better proposal that will not contain such reckless solutions. In the Slovenian People's Party, we therefore find it more reasonable that in the future all local communities and other entities that have been trained to do so still have the opportunity to make their own land-book proposals. However, to those who are not themselves technically able to process the submission of land-book proposals by electronic means, let us allow them to submit proposals directly to the District Court or through the Ombudsman. The solutions offered by the amendment to the Land Book Act are considered by the Slovenian People's Party to be inadequate and totally unnecessary to include an intermediate level in the form of notaries and lawyers, so we propose a re-examination. In the Slovenian People's Party, without any concrete explanation of what changes cost both the citizen and the Slovenian municipalities, and without any tangible benefits for the economy, we cannot support the amendment of the Land Book Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-12-08-SDZ5-Izredna-34.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a decision on that law. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting devices. In doing so, I would like to point out that a majority of Members must vote in order to adopt that law in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of Slovenia, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 17. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I understand that the law is not passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 34th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly. Thank you very much. The meeting was closed on 8 December 2010 at 15.47.
