ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen. Please take your seats first. I begin the 15th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Janja Klasinc, Melita Župevc, Miran Ptrč by 15:00, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, mag. Franc Žnidaršič since 16:00, Bogdan Barovic, Milenko Ziherl, Marjan Pojbič, Roberto Battelli and Anton Kolarič after 3 p.m. I invited the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to the 21st item of the agenda, the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the State Council to the 18th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. I inform you that the assembly will begin its consideration of agenda item 1 at 3 p.m., this is with questions from Members and Members. If the assembly does not conclude by 2.30 p.m. on the third item of the agenda, the assembly will then suspend the consideration of this item and vote on the items already dealt with. The National Assembly will continue its consideration of the possible suspension of agenda item 3 on Friday, 26. 3. 2010, after the end of the vote. We are moving on to the agenda of the 15th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to the meeting on 16 March 2010. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda or to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. Members and Members, please check the functioning of your voting devices. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 50 votes against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 15th meeting of the assembly has been set. We're moving to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the public composition of the Republic of Slovenia from cultural activities within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Majda Shirca, Minister of Culture, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u2	Good morning or good morning. I'm glad we're getting close to the end of the debate on [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u3	Please, peace in the hall! I'm asking for your attention. The secretary is speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u4	To the public fund of the Republic of Slovenia for cultural activities which has gone into the process of consideration so far, I can say, currently, in line with coordination and on the last parental committee, I have to say that we have coordinated more nomotechnic questions than substantive ones, because we have coordinated the preparation process at a wide level in the present preparation process. Also with municipalities, given that the participation of the public fund for amateur activities is to a large extent a touch of the entire Slovenian space also at local level. What is worth noting again behind this counter is that the law regulates the coordinated functioning of the public fund for amateur activities by means of a new law on public funds, which you know from the past as a well-functioning and organised body covering, coordinating, encouraging, stimulating and also in some ways educating the entire cultural space and a number of societies and other organisations that are autonomously organised in the wider Slovenian space. In short, from the old regulation, let us remember once again that in 2008 there was an amendment to the Public Funds Act, which in some ways closed the possibility of working two culturally-funded, so to speak, according to the lover's activities and also to the film fund, because it laid down the rules of the game which apply to other more asset funds. But in the absence of an organisation or form of form that would allow for the same autonomous and comparable operation from the already established, we have decided to upgrade the existing law and complement it in such a way that it will not be disputed by this umbrella law on public funds. In short, we keep everything that has proved to be good in practice, but of course we have also listened to new initiatives from the profession and practice and aligned them with life and the letter of law. In short, in just two words, that's all. The Fund will also allow the flow of cultural information and cultural goods to the future as a national cultural platform that will preserve the integrity of national cultural space or the coherence of cultural development, reduce cultural differences in the development of individual environments and, of course, enrich cultural supply and raise quality levels of activity. In short, even in the future, it will be a public service to which the State transfers part of the Ministry of Culture's tasks, in particular part of the operational tasks at the level of project funding aimed at individual cultural operators - this is said to be a system of monetary assistance to a certain lower value - and will continue to be a professional guide and promoter of amateur cultural activities at home and abroad, between foreigners and Slovenes around the world through educational forms, events and through publishing. We all know more or less that the fund was well received, needed on the ground, and the Ministry of Culture was satisfied with its operation and organisation. Finally, I would just like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure, we would expect that, if this second hearing is successful, we will also have a third hearing at this meeting and thus bring the law to life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u5	Thank you. We have recorded your proposal at the hearing and will take it into account. Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. I'm giving the president a word. Majdi Potrat for presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister with fellow Members, Members and Members of Parliament! The draft Law on the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth at its 15th session. The draft law was also discussed in general, at the 13th regular meeting of the National Assembly, when it was also decided that the Proposal for a Law on the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities was suitable for further consideration. The legislative and legal service has examined the law submitted in terms of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and has made comments on Article 15 from a legislative and technical point of view. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport supported and considered that the proposal should once again examine the provisions of the law, which stipulates that employees cannot be members of the Supervisory Council, while at the same time recommending that the Ministry of Culture regulate human and amateur culture as soon as possible. As an interested body, the Commission considered that Article 4 of the draft law should be supplemented by the content showing that the public fund for cultural activities cooperates with the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities and the Roma community in the field of amateur cultural activities, allowing for further in-depth cooperation in the field of events and the provision of advisory services to the professional service of the Fund. This opinion was also summarised in the amendment. In its opinion, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development drew attention, inter alia, to the importance of the sixth indent of Article 4 of the bill, or supported the proposal of the law. A number of opinions were also forwarded to the Committee, namely the Slovenian Emigration Matrix, the Pomur Hungarian Self-Governmental Communities, including the Coastal Self-Governmental Communities of Italian Nationality, the Municipality of Novo mesto, the Municipality of Krško, Domžale and the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, at the time of Article 15 of the Act. The amendments were tabled by four coalition parties to Articles 3, 4, 6, 7, 9, 15, 16, 18 and 22 and by the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group on Article 4. Ms Majda Širca Ravnikar, Director of the Fund for Cultural Activities, participated in the work of the Committee. Igor Tršar, representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of Katarina King and representative of the State Council Anton Peršak. The preliminary explanation of the law was given by Minister Majda Širc, who also supported the adoption of the amendments tabled by the coalition, since she felt that the text of the bill would be clearer by their adoption. The amendments and the law were also explained by the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service and said that most of the comments were taken into account in the amendments. The main debate on individual articles was the amendment to Article 4 at the time of the two amendments tabled. The government explained that the law does not create any positive discrimination for any society and that the adoption of the amendment of the national communities could lead to certain anomalies. Also with regard to the proposed amendment to the Committee, presented mainly by the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Government considered that the legislation adopted required that public resources be fully monitored, including 6% of the funds coming from local communities and further distributed by the Fund under mutual agreements. Accordingly, an amendment has also been drafted which will be the subject of our debate. After the discussion, all the proposed amendments tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups were adopted. The amendment of the Committee was also accepted. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report and I ask for the support of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u7	Thank you. At the 13th meeting, the assembly held the first reading of the bill. It is not possible to present the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled. 3. 2010 I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendments of the SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anybody want to talk? Anybody else want some? Please, for your application. Alexander Zorn has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Respectable. The law and the amendment will be supported. It seems appropriate, both of them, but at the same time, there was a debate on a lot of things on the Committee itself and we were, which is unusually, very much in agreement with a number of proposals and amendments, so that this is a joint work or a common agreement. In short, the fund agrees on this. However, I still predict that there will be competent competitions, or an embarrassment between the financing of municipalities and the state-owned public fund, as will be shown in practice. In culturally favored congregations, there will be fewer problems; in unfavorable congregations there will be problems, and then there will be problems. Probably, the law to fix. This amendment is a bit embarrassing, but I don't think it's doing enough. It is necessary to say that we need such a law, of course, because after all, the amateur cultural activity, which was once extremely widespread in Slovenia, is the basis on which then all culture stands in later times and in professional types. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u10	Thank you for your word. I would like to say that the debate on this amendment on the Committee has taken place just as long and in depth because we have had different discussions on whether the Fund can monitor the use of resources not only from the State budget but also from the local community budget. It is simply a matter of the fact that the Court of Auditors has previously found that cultural societies, which are often organizers of such programmes, cannot be a direct interlocutor in drawing funds from both the municipal budgets and the state budget. If I only say, in the Municipality of Maribor, the contract and this possibility of drawing funds were now broken down, because the Public Fund remains, the exhibition in Maribor, the only one who can allocate funds. In any event, whether they are local funds or funds from the State budget, they are public funds. And some way of controlling the use of public funds needs to be ensured. The question is complicated. It is true that the draft law, as an interested working body, was also discussed by the Committee on Local Self-Government, which supported the proposal of the law, but dealt with this very issue for a long time, and the proposal for an amendment to the Committee, which we were not satisfied with on the Committee, nor by the representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, nor by the representatives of the proposer, we then adopted this solution to support the proposal for an amendment to the Committee, and at the same time announced that the proposal for a meeting of the National Assembly would be prepared by an improved text. This improved text is now before you as a proposal for an amendment, and it is coordinated, as we have said, with the representatives of the Legislative and Legal Service, and we recommend it to you to accept it, because we believe it is again possible to attach it to those who find that the favour of local communities for amateur activity is very different, and there is no aprioral view that smaller local communities are less favoured to a loving culture, but it is simply a matter of adjusting certain funding paths and also respecting the observations of the Court of Auditors. Right now, we can't find another way, as we say. The proposed amendment will be supported by the Social Democrats, which can also be understood from the signatures to this amendment, but if something is to be done further because of the practice or life that will indicate the need for change, it will probably not be the first or last law to be amended. Of course, I would like to say above all that I would like to see better times for cultural activity in the country at the time of the adoption of this law, and that we would spend more money on cultural activities from public funds, if we follow those who are thinking about what the future of the State of Slovenia should be after the crisis, and, above all, that culture would play an important role for a happier and better quality of life in this country. At the same time, I would also like to thank the representative of the national community, Dr Gönch, who understood that the non-admission of the amendment on the Committee does not jeopardise or limit the rights of both national communities and the Roma community, so that it appears that we will be able to adopt the law in full agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word is Willy Rezman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. I myself, as the vast majority of others seem to support this amendment, as I support the law itself. The amendment slightly improves the law at this point and, according to my judgment, it is slightly more than just a nomo technical correction because it is actually content here. I think that the law, by providing State support to a loving culture, could, of course, be better, even if more resources were provided, but it is so that it can receive our support. The law already states in Article 1 what is its content and includes control of resources. As noted at the outset, this control, this competence or even the obligation of the Public Fund for Fans' Cultural Activities, may have been too general. This control was applicable to all the resources available to societies, which would probably not be the right thing to do. Resources for a lover culture are not just sources of public funds, let me say that by law all members of societies have to pay membership fees and here start funding their own activities, then here are the different revenues that society generates either by their onset or by admission, or by election, gifts and so on. In short, companies themselves provide a substantial part of the funds and it is right that they also manage these funds sovereignly and have internal control over these funds. As regards public funds, it is also necessary to separate the funds they receive from either municipal cash registers on the basis of different calls for proposals or the state budget. I think that control, both the roads and the authorities that can control funds from local communities, is quite enough. Therefore, there are operational options for doing so, and it is indeed appropriate that the Public Fund for Cultural Fans is assured that the review of the funds and programmes for which the funds have gone, particularly when the funds provided by the contract are signed by the Fund. So I'm going to support the amendment and the law for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss the amendment? Yes, please, Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. I will certainly support this amendment, which improves this part by saying control over the use of funds and that is good. And this amendment is therefore well written because it leaves control of the use of other means to those who give these funds, namely, the congregations and so on. Thus, I have no problem in this regard. It is interesting and good that apparently most of the colleagues and colleagues or parliamentary groups support this law. Marriage is imperative that there be no void. It is certainly a fund or regional exhibitions of some kind linked to culture. We often say that congregations are sometimes integrated into their fences and that they are somehow lacking in the field. And in the area of culture, regional exposure is certainly one of those factors that also provide for this, in addition to some other cultural institutions that are of wider importance and which are also working in this direction. Sometimes there are problems on the ground, including probably human resources problems, but they are everywhere. Many times it depends, of course, on the people who regulate these matters or who run these regional exhibitions, but my experience with the fund, with the world of regional exposure, and so on, because I also work in some areas that are also connected with the fund, with cultural societies, with the municipalities and so on. Yeah, I support -- I think it's a good amendment. However, in the event that it turns out to be necessary to change things in the future, we are, in the end, also in this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment besides the minister? The secretary has the floor, please. You've reached out, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I thought I would sum up thinking - not about the amendment in fact, but about the whole law, including your comments on this amendment. It seems to me that it is very important that the fund remains a fund, which means that it is outside the direct or narrow organisation of the Ministry of Culture, because it allows for an autonomous and significantly more meaningful organisation of life. Such systems, such ways I defend and believe that in other areas, especially in film, this will remain, not exclusion, but autonomy outside the Ministry of Culture in a narrower sense. When we talk about the control of funds, which happens at the time of Article 4, of course, it is necessary to know that anyone is financed, that is to say from wherever public funds come from: either from the municipal or from the state or from any other level, these funds are always and must be subject to control. In the end, they are always met by the Court of Auditors, if not by others. This arrangement, as it is, makes sense, is certainly transparent. I must point out that this is not a matter of so little resources. This year, when we are talking about the total amount of money allocated to the entire amateur activity, of course, even for wages, this figure is slightly less than €8 million. By, let's say, last year, the municipalities contributed about €2 million to this entire budget, and there are also a few funds, more than a million, almost a million, from the cultural tolar. Of course, there are other sources of funds from all of them, which means that there are an additional two million. 59 municipal expositions are linked to cooperation, strong cooperation with the basic fund with the contracts - whatever the case, regardless of this Article, it is right that funds are controlled. This amendment regulates the method of control. I am sure that if, since we were born - the country - this fund and, of course, earlier, it has been strongly linked or the lovemaking activity has been strongly linked in any form of organization, but it has worked because it has a tradition because it has a lot of societies in different forms. I believe that whatever form in the future, this relationship will remain strong. The form we propose strengthens the relationship. Let's face it, this fund worked, regardless of whether in the form of such a form of public fund, as defined mainly by the financial services, since the proponent of the law on public funds is the Ministry of Finance within the Government, this form was solid, quality and very good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Greetings to the secretary and coworkers. I must say, I support this law. You have prepared a good law, which also has an amendment that is worthy of support, since the law that is a living thing is also improving and upgrading. You could say that culture, especially the loving soul and the salt of life, is especially there when we move slightly outside urban centres and centers. I am pleased that we are devoting to culture in view of the crisis, which is an appropriate amount of resources, never and never large enough to, of course, the majority of Slovenian local communities, this effort, this energy and the free will of people working for their own satisfaction, and especially for the common good, to the satisfaction of the public, so that we can tell them at symbolic level that we appreciate it and respect it. As in life, everything begins and ends with money, even in culture: pure accounts of good friends, so it is right that the system of state and municipalities controls the use of its resources - at one becomes important. On the other hand, it is important and surprising when we look at and read these reports, that we also see, indirectly, how much of the funds culturers collect for their noble and necessary activities themselves. I have been to a number of general assemblies of our cultural societies, and I must say that man is often well-willed, but how much to this culture Slovenian performers contribute through sponsors, through voluntary work, how many transports, how many hours of exercise are there to make an event that fills and excites the hall to make its mark. On the other hand, I thought it was important to stop by this point also because we set up a mirror for professional culture with this will or unwillingness. For if we compare resources for a loving and professional culture, then we can say that those who are amateur lovers work incredibly well, successfully and with much added value, and perhaps someone from a professional culture will imagine that the use of public taxpayers in this area will be even better and even more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly today in the framework of the votes, I think we can say, five minutes after the end of the third item of the agenda. Just in case, maybe at 2.30 at the latest. We're moving to four. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY-TERM OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE TRANSPORT LEGISLATION IN ROAD TRANSPORT, SHORT PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the opinion. I think the minister's coming. If you don't mind, I'll interrupt the session in five minutes. We'll continue the session at 9:00 and 40 minutes. We're still waiting for the committee report, so we need to stop. The meeting will continue at 9.40 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u20	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, we continue with the 4th item of the agenda. As I have already mentioned, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u21	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning. Respectable. The basic objective of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Transport Act is to rationalise the operation of individual national authorities. More precise arrangements for the management of electronic licence records on driving qualifications, the procedure for losing them and the determination of the content of the application and the content of the press card on driving qualifications in accordance with Directive 2000/59 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Amendments and additions are more precisely regulated by the supervision of supervisory authorities and a new permit stamping institution is being introduced and criminal sanctions are being increased to the amounts punishable in a comparable manner to neighbouring countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Janko Webr for presentation of the report of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u23	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting on behalf of the Transport Committee. Therefore, the Transport Committee has also considered the amendment of the law and has also taken important decisions, particularly in the part relating to the granting of public powers. Thus, the key dilemma in this law was who can grant these permits. We have preserved the form, in the supplementary proposal of this law, which retains these permits within the Chamber of Commerce. There have actually been no major changes after the Committee's consideration. I therefore propose that the material transmitted to the National Assembly be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Silven Majhenič has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Ambassadors. Please. I'm asking for a meeting in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u25	Dear Mr. President. The Honourable Minister. In order to achieve the objectives of a law, it is necessary to adopt measures to address the uncertainties of the provisions and non-compliances that have also arisen as a result of the enforcement of other laws, as in this case. The current road transport law was adopted in 2006 and minor changes were made in 2008, as the European Union institutions have directed us to comply with European Union rules. The public concerned, especially carriers, did not support this law, so there was never a shortage of proposals to improve and amend the law, which was increasingly strict and less acceptable to our carriers by the introduction of the European acquis, as there was even such a contradiction that it separated our carriers from foreign carriers; of course, to the detriment of Slovenian carriers. Given the competitiveness of our carriers, it is logical that the dissatisfaction of our carriers was high, as the differences between carriers were obvious, especially in the control of our and foreign carriers. The Ministry of Transport is setting up a working group on this subject, which includes various experts, bodies, professions who have found that changes in the field of road transport are also necessary in order to mitigate the economic crisis. Under the poor control of foreign carriers, unfair competition has been created for domestic carriers and it is therefore necessary to change the practice in the field of the use of licences, administrative barriers, supervision of foreign carriers and criminal policy. There is also a great deal of dissatisfaction and irregularities in the issue of driving licences, correctly completed licences and accompanying documents. As we see, there are several requirements and improvements in the direction of improvement that would ensure the legality and transparency of operating without a licence. Police should be more careful in this direction, not of our carriers, but of foreigners who are clearly violating European and our legislation in the eyes of all, including those responsible for the implementation of legality in the Republic of Slovenia. It is clear that only minor corrections have a positive effect on improving unfair competition in favour of our carriers. Therefore, we will also support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Miran Jerič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u27	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Minister with a Fellow. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members. In Slovenia road transport is an important economic activity. It deals with about 7,100 car companies, with more than 31,000 professional drivers. As well as others, the road transport activity has been severely affected by the economic crisis, as it is almost entirely dependent on the trade flows that are conditioned by economic activity. The crisis is reflected through financial non-discipline, by increasing unfair competition, by working black and generally by negative economic growth, which has an impact on the reduction of demand for motor services by more than a third. Unlike in the past, road transport associations do not have any specific or radical requirements for the country, but welcome all measures that directly or directly contribute to the mitigation of the effects of the economic crisis in the automotive sector. This is the kind of action that the bill deals with. In particular, the following objectives of the bill are to be highlighted: to reduce non-compliance with the rules on the use of licences, to remove individual administrative barriers, which should in particular contribute indirectly to mitigating the consequences of the economic crisis and to improve the supervision of motorists and to ensure more effective punishment in the event of infringements. We agree with these objectives in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, but we would like to point out with regard to the removal of administrative obstacles that this process is justified until it threatens to ensure the safety of transport operations, competitiveness in activities and to increase the environmental burden. It should be noted, however, that all the governments so far have listened more or less to the demands of road transport organisations, and these, most often justified, have often been supported by public protests. The applicable road transport law of 2006 essentially reduced or reduced the conditions for the operation of motorists to a minimum that is still permitted or permissible by European regulations. Such a decision was good and necessary, since Slovenia’s auto-transport activity, especially after 2004, faced severe competition in road transport both within the European Union and with even worse, often unfair competition outside the European Union. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we have now supported the law in force, because we felt that, in the context of severe competition in the context of the enlargement of the European Union, our car carriers should not be subject to stricter operating conditions than to their direct competition in other countries of the European Union. As has already been said, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will, in particular, assess any further relaxation of the conditions of business in the automotive sector in terms of ensuring safety, competitiveness and environmental protection. This time, we support the objectives and on the basis of the measures taken by the amendment or amendment to the law in question. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a new law on road transport transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u28	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Honourable President, Honourable Minister, Fellow Members, Fellow Members and Fellow Members. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to road transport is, in the opinion of the Social Democrats, one of the measures which may also have direct and immediate visible effects to mitigate the impact of the economic crisis on road transport. This takes into account the objectives of the proposal, as the predecessor has already said, such as reducing non-compliance with the rules on the use of licences, removing individual administrative barriers, which will indirectly or directly help mitigate the consequences of the economic crisis in the road transport sector, improving the control of carriers and ensuring more effective sanctions in the event of infringements and the establishment of penalties comparable to those in other countries. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the Government has followed the lead in the drafting of the amendment of the law to ensure that changes and amendments to the law are practical and will not create direct administrative obstacles and thus help the transport industry. The removal of administrative barriers has also been the reason why, together with the coalition partners, we have also tabled an amendment to the meeting of the National Assembly, which we also support, as it further eliminates these problems. In the Group of Social Democrats we will both support the bill and the amendment of the coalition, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Darka Meni.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good-bye to all of you. In the Slovenian Democratic Party Group, we are aware of the difficult situation in which Slovenian road hauliers have been faced for some time. The first blow was received by Slovenian road hauliers with the full and immediate liberalisation of road transport at the time of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, since then Slovenian negotiators for Slovenian road hauliers did not negotiate a transitional period which would at least partially mitigate the consequences of joining the European Union. It was also contributed by a large fragmentation of road transport, which also caused unfair competition and price cannibalism among carriers themselves during the period of fat cows. In a period of tight economic conditions, therefore, it is welcome to amend any law that directly or indirectly helps to reduce the negative consequences of the economic crisis on auto-transport activity and therefore in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group we do not, in principle, oppose the main objectives of the law. At the time of reading this bill, however, we were asked whether the main purpose of the law was not to hide elsewhere - in the recast of Article 5 of the basic law, which gave the public authority to issue licences and other administrative documents in the field of road transport with a public tender, redistributing more legal persons and not more than one, as it has so far been. It is quite clear that in this case it is the two chambers, the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce and Industry who wish to continue sharing licences. If this article hadn't changed, one chamber would have run out of this, obviously, profitable business. In our Group of Members, we believe that the exercise of such public authority is also a matter of conflict of interest. It is not possible to completely exclude the possibility that a chamber in the award of licences or other documents would not favour its member over a non-member. In theory, it could happen that a non-member of the Chamber would be in a worse position than a member, even though it is competence in administrative procedures which should be non-discriminatory. Since it is necessary to avoid any, even the least possible, conflicts of interest, or the potential risk that such situations might occur, we have proposed an amendment in our parliamentary group to transfer this public authority to the national customs authority. In most European countries, public powers are exercised by state agencies or by state authorities. In our opinion, the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia has the appropriate knowledge, staff and space to exercise such public powers and will face the surplus of customs workers in the future. This would also avoid the interest between carriers or legal entities which issue licences. Thus, we cannot help but feel that this law is more due to the lobbying pressure of both chambers on members of the coalition and the government, since otherwise our amendment on the Committee on Transport would be adopted. Otherwise, let us wait until the public competition, they will certainly be chosen again - someone else - as the Chamber of Commerce and Economics. We have also tabled an amendment to Article 17 in order to extend the obligation to control the licences referred to in point 11 to intermediaries who are ordinary carriers of the transaction. In the first sentence of point 11, the words "legal person" should also be added "transport organisers". Both amendments were rejected and all seven coalition amendments were voted down. The Slovenian Democratic Party will not oppose the adoption of a bill amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u33	Good afternoon, honourable Members and Members. Mr President of the National Assembly, the distinguished Minister with his co-worker, is warmly welcomed. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support a proposal for a law aimed at limiting the unfair competition of foreign motorists in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in the hope and expectation that the proposed measures will actually protect domestic motorists. In addition, we would expect that, due to such important and extensive changes, the Government would propose a completely new road transport and treatment law following a normal and not short-term procedure, as it is such a major change that it is difficult to justify the reduced procedure. We will therefore support the law, however, because we hope that it will have a positive effect on the operations of motorists, as it tries to prevent the unfair competition of foreign carriers, especially by Croatian colleagues who carry out transport or load goods in the Slovenian space without licences. In addition, the amendment also introduces some of the requirements of last year's adopted European regulation, the so-called road package, which foresees changes in road transport. We also support the purpose of the law because of three principles in the law, which should otherwise lead to every law: the principle of legality - to establish effective control in the use of permits, the principle of equality in the treatment before the law - that foreign carriers in criminal sanctions are treated in the same way as Slovenian carriers abroad and the principle of economics, by eliminating unnecessary costs for carriers in their activities in order to eliminate unnecessary administration. On the Committee, we have learned that on the basis of the warnings of motorists, the Government is preparing a law that will set a 30-day payment period for the services provided to motorists. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that the Government must hurry with such measures, because we are convinced that this is one of the few concrete laws that can actually help improve the situation in the field of the economy, in which case domestic motorists. We will support amendments that improve the text and purpose of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u35	Mr President, the distinguished Minister with his colleagues, colleagues and colleagues, is warmly welcomed. I will present to you the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a road transport law. We have before us a bill to protect Slovenian road hauliers from unfair competition by foreign carriers who do not have the necessary licences for their work. The solutions brought by the novels relate to the adoption of measures which have immediate and visible effects on the mitigation of the consequences of the economic crisis on the road transport activity. This takes into account the objectives of: reducing non-compliance with the rules on the use of licences, removing individual administrative barriers, which will indirectly or directly contribute to mitigating the consequences of the economic crisis; improving the control of carriers and ensuring more effective sanctions in the event of infringements; and establishing penalties comparable to those in other countries. In particular, the principle of legality is taken into account in order to establish effective control of foreign carriers in the use of licences; the principle of equality in the treatment before the law, namely that foreign carriers are treated in the same way as Slovenian carriers abroad in criminal sanctions; and the principle of economics, by eliminating unnecessary costs for carriers in their activities. Unnecessary administration between the authorities shall be eliminated, resulting in a more rapid transfer of information. In preparing the proposal, the proposer followed the leaders who ensure that changes and additions to the law will be practical and will not create unnecessary administrative obstacles; that individual institutes are systematically regulated, with particular reference to driver’s cards, by removing certain uncertainties, eliminating unnecessary provisions and increasing control over the use of licences by foreign carriers. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the bill because we expect the proposal to actually protect our carriers from the unfair competition of foreign carriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u36	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 23.3.2010. First, I am putting forward Article 9 and the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. Anyone want to discuss this amendment? I find that he does not want to, so I am closing the debate on this amendment and putting Article 17 and the amendment of the SDS Group to the debate. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Peter Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u37	Thank you very much. This amendment, which we are re- tabled, has already had quite a few debates at the very meeting of the Transport Committee, but it is also an important paragraph of this Article, as it in fact creates more control and more control in the very area which is also very sensitive to domestic road hauliers, it is said, international road transport and cabotage. Here I believe the carriers had quite a lot of comments and probably this is also due to a very precise or very precise article, which, in fact, one would say, is a little too precise for the law. Perhaps the wording of the Article would be more understandable if the details of the cabotage control itself, as regards the control of licences in this case, were defined in any of the sub-legislative acts. However, in paragraph 11, persons who are required to verify the relevant documentation when it comes to international road transport or cabotage are mentioned. These are legal persons, independent entrepreneurs, individuals who carry out the activity independently, and natural persons. However, transport organisers have been released, and this is what we propose to add to this text - transport organisers. It's those agents or those who intercede between the client and the carrier, and they're not bound by anything, they're the ones who actually put everything into the carrier, and you're, of course, in some relationship with the agent. I believe that there is also a purely general law that regulates the contractual situation, but road transport is only a specific matter, it is only certain specific requirements, and it is only right that the agent who intervenes knows these things too. And that, of course, is also included in this chain when it comes to control and control. That's what desire is. It is said that there is no desire for additional administration, as explained on the Committee, but a desire is even more, even better control. I think that this is also for the benefit of road transport, for the benefit of the activity itself, in order to make this chain, even after this professional and supervisory salary, as effective as possible, and that there are no mistakes, so that these problems do not occur or anyone gets a headache. I think that this is a welcome amendment, which only explains the matter more, because I believe that now that, apparently, the main purpose of this law in any case has not been to solve the economic crisis, but to resolve clearly, as I have understood, both chambers, economic and craftsmen, who will now be given the authority to continue to share permits. It is a pity that the amendment that would give this public authority to the customs service was not adopted. This could also make these two chambers more involved in control than in state-owned associations over control and quality, but not with public powers, which was obviously also a major interest and here, unfortunately, I find that the lobbying interests of both chambers have been weakened. Even the chairman of the committee said that they would do this to the chamber, and the law said it would be good to have a public competition. So, we're just prejudging both chambers. I think that this is the main damage to this law and that, in fact, in addition to transport organisers, they could be more involved in the control of quality and in the benefit of both chambers, but it seems easier to share permits. I certainly suggest you support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Anyone else wants to discuss the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 17? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, five minutes after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the provision of funds for investment in public railway infrastructure, urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Patrick Vlačič, Minister of Transport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u39	Thank you, President. The proposal for a law on the provision of funds for investment in public railway infrastructure is a very important law. The purpose of this Regulation is to provide dedicated funds for the preparation, organisation, management and implementation of investments, as well as for the maintenance of public rail infrastructure, so as to provide funds for the smooth implementation of investments and pooling works for public benefit over a longer period of time. The resources collected will allow for the modernisation of all segments of public rail infrastructure, thereby establishing a higher level of safety, reliability, capacity building, the smooth development of passenger and freight transport and, of course, all the benefits and comforts, both ecological and other brought by rail transport. In 1996, a national programme for the development of public railway infrastructure was adopted. There were identified investment projects, indicatively defined necessary funds. The analysis of this national programme shows that, unlike road transport, only 30% were realised. The road map programme, originating in the 1994 national programme, was also implemented due to the continued provision of funds. However, the railway national programme is precisely because there was never any funding, and it was almost entirely not met. This law, of course, does not provide sufficient resources, but provides a basis for ensuring that future investment in rail infrastructure can be provided on a regular basis and that, in fact, investment in rail infrastructure can be seriously discussed in this way. The continued lack of funding for investment in rail infrastructure has brought railway infrastructure to the edge of capacity. At the edge of the capacity, both for the prescribed safety standards and for all other "benj marks", competitiveness was reduced because it was easy to invest too little in rail infrastructure. We talk a lot about the reasons and reasons why our railway undertaking is uncompetitive. However, one of the very important reasons is that the State did not invest enough in rail infrastructure and indirectly caused less competitiveness of the railway carrier. Slovenia has an extremely important strategic position, located at the crossroads of the fifth and tenth trans-European transport corridor, and with good road infrastructure, good railway infrastructure will enable us to take advantage of what is in fact one of the rare, great strategic advantages of the Republic of Slovenia. This law provides that the funds to be collected under the annual road vehicle duty and concessions, concession fees or parts of the concessional duty of the port of Koper will be used for investments and maintenance in public railway infrastructure for the period 2010-2023. In line with the current practice in the implementation of the budget, it is appropriate to determine the dedicated use of resources in the special law, since the comparison of the previously mentioned motorway programme with the non-executed railway shows that the funds provided were the main reason that the motorway programme was implemented. Let me say that countries such as Switzerland, Austria and others have decided long before our country that investing in rail infrastructure will be a very important part of their transport policy. Let me just make a comparison. Of course, it is bigger and richer countries, but Switzerland, which probably has one of the best rail systems, invests three billion dollars a year in the rail system. Austria invests two billion and a half. These are, of course, countries around Slovenia. In the case of this law, we are talking about hundreds of millions. And I would be very happy if you would support this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was considered by the Transport Committee as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to President Janko Webr for presentation of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. At its 9th urgent meeting on 23 March 2010, the Transport Committee held a second reading of the draft law. In the opening presentation of the law, the Secretary of State, Dr Igor Jakomin, presented the reasons for reception, which relate mainly to the provision of dedicated funds for the period 2010 to 2023 for investments and maintenance of public railway infrastructure. This law specifies the resources to be collected and defines the resources to be collected as dedicated resources that the public rail infrastructure investment authority receives each year for the preparation, organisation and management of investments and provides for the use of the funds directly for the implementation of investments and maintenance of public rail infrastructure, as set out in the 1996 national programme for the development of public railway infrastructure or on the basis of annual investment plans and annual plans for the maintenance of public railway infrastructure. It also stressed that this law makes it possible to track the origins of transport policy, such as the integration of public rail infrastructure into the European Union rail system, and in particular to ensure technical and technological compliance with the requirements of the European Union, to enable the development of regional routes and, of course, also the availability of these regional economic development routes, with appropriate alignment with real needs or capacities. It is also possible to implement the rail system in urban, suburban and urban transport, which is also extremely important for the development of cities or suburban settlements. The Commission does not support local self-government and regional development in the National Council of the State for reasons that it does not support the proposed transfer of revenue from the annual road transport duty for the construction of railway infrastructure. The Commission also considers that the applicant should also submit a resolution on the national programme for the development of public rail infrastructure when submitting a law setting out the means of investment in public rail infrastructure. The law was also reviewed by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In its opinion, in particular, it highlighted the aspect of its compliance with the Constitution. At the same time, she drew attention to Article 148 of the Constitution, which lays down the principle of the integrity of the State budget, while also pointing out that the Public Finance Act allows for certain exceptions to this principle and, of course, in its opinion, it also seeks to define it more precisely. It also noted that, however, the national rail infrastructure development programme is the document on which this law should be based, so that the reference to the 1996 national programme is somewhat, according to the Legislative and Legal Services, lax. In the case of specific articles, it is recalled that Article 1 provides that the funds are earmarked for investments, but not for maintenance, so that it has pointed out the non-compliance between Articles 1 and 3 in its opinion. It also pointed out in Article 2 that only part of the concession fee is referred to as the source for the construction of railway infrastructure by Luke Koper, which belongs to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. It would be more appropriate to make it clear that this is the whole duty of Luka Koper on concession fee. In the debate, the Committee devoted a great deal of time to the amendments tabled by the SDS Group, which, with its amendments, sought to define in more detail the means of carrying out investments in public rail infrastructure and, in particular, to extend them to debt resources, to the use of tolls collected for freight vehicles and in detail. The SDS Group's Committee of Amendments has not adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2 and 3 following the warnings of the Legislative and Legal Service. At the end of the discussion, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. This is also the way in which the draft law was drafted at the meeting of the National Assembly today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Miran Jerič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u43	Dear President of the National Assembly, Minister of Transport, distinguished fellow Members, fellow Members. It is in Slovenia's national interest to update public rail infrastructure in a catastrophic state as soon as possible, and at the same time to transform Slovenian railways not only because of the deep crisis in which they are located, according to Slovenia's geographical location, a leading regional operator carrying out comprehensive transport logistics activities. Once and for all, it is necessary to move from words to actions as soon as possible, although due to the lost decades in the development of Slovenian railways, the path towards this goal will be extremely difficult financially. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we hope that such a transition will lead to the adoption of the law on the provision of funds for investment in public railway infrastructure. The Law for the period until 2023 lays down resources for the purpose of raising funds for investments and maintaining public railway infrastructure. The resources intended to finance investments in railway infrastructure will, as proposed by law, be provided from the annual road transport duty and from the part of the concession fee paid by Luka Koper. That is to say, only from the part belonging to the State remains part of the municipality’s budget. The funds to be collected are defined as earmarked resources that the public railway infrastructure investment authority receives each year for the preparation, organisation and management of individual investments. The draft law also provides that funds shall be used directly for the implementation of investments and maintenance of railway infrastructure, as set out in the national programme for the development of public railway infrastructure or on the basis of annual investment plans and annual plans for the maintenance of public railway infrastructure. In the LDS, we do not want the law to gradually experience the fate of the law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of state roads laid down in the national road construction programme. It is also a matter of whether the funds collected will be sufficient to make all the necessary investments. Almost certainly not; and since public private partnership funding does not seem likely, it will be necessary not only to borrow but, above all, to make better use of European funds. Following the development strategy drawn up by the previous government, some less than €9 billion are expected to invest in rail infrastructure by the year 23. Some experts point out that we do not even need so much resources to modernise rail infrastructure. The round table on financing the implementation of public rail infrastructure projects as part of the international rail infrastructure managers' congress, held at the beginning of January this year, estimated that around €3 billion is the minimum amount of resources that will enable us to obtain such a railway infrastructure comparable to the European - of course, without fast lines. In LDS, of course, various assessments of the necessary resources do not make us happy, but above all the uncertainty about the extent of the necessary investments. But this is also, or above all, a question for a competent professional and a little less for politics. We therefore expect the Government to submit as soon as possible a new resolution on the national programme for the development of public railway infrastructure, which will have to respond to the open dilemmas of modernising our railway infrastructure. Even more so at the moment, we are disturbed by the fact that the second track between Kopro and Divac, which will obviously only be one, is the only living railway infrastructure project. There are no others. That is why we cannot make use of all available European resources. In the LDS, we therefore reiterate our call for responsible institutions to work in a responsible manner and to speed up the preparation of relevant projects and the placement of these projects into space, and we also expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to submit to Parliament as soon as possible a law on the placement of transport, energy and water infrastructures into space. In public rail infrastructure, nothing has really changed in the last five years. In the LDS, we hope that this year and next year, when almost €590 million will be spent together for the development and modernisation of rail infrastructure, this will change. However, if we continue with our decades of misinterpretation of the role of railways in modern post-industrial society for the next five years, at least one bad thing will happen: in the field of Slovenian Railways, the fifth European Corridor will be taken over by Austrians. Therefore, it is high time for Slovenia to start investing more rapidly in the modernisation of rail infrastructure and we will therefore support the proposal in the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr. Luka Juri. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u45	Good-bye. We Social Democrats are very pleased that this proposal, which is now before us and which we hope to adopt soon, has come to pass. This proposal enables the real realization of what we have already defined in our strategy and the real realization of the entire vision that we have in Slovenia regarding the construction of the railway infrastructure, which has been in recent years, not because of the lack of political will of the predecessors, but because of the inadequate resources we have, in fact, only the letter on paper remains. The decision to build such a railway network is also based on this law not only on an economic decision but also on a sustainable, ecological and developmental decision. It represents the strategic importance for our next 20 years, such as the development of the highway cross and further motorway projects over the last 20 years. This law will also enable the real realization of the purpose that we like to repeat so many times in Slovenia: the arrival or transfer of goods from road to rail, of course, knowing that this is the first step, only the first mandatory step without which they will not be possible. Some of the doubts that have arisen in recent weeks in connection with this proposal have mainly concerned the question whether such a financial structure will actually enable the construction, whether it will stop only in the maintenance and whether we can realistically expect an effect when the realisation of the rail network is still so far away. Here we can compare with the circumstances of the decision to lose weight. Of course, I would like to lose weight tomorrow, but he must be aware that he will be able to achieve this goal, he must work firmly and firmly - not tomorrow, but today, in order to achieve this goal in months or even years. Let's say that with this plan of railway infrastructure we will lose weight in Slovenia in terms of emissions, in terms of pollution, but we will be richer with important strategic infrastructure that will enable us to implement that vision of the strategic position of Slovenia and the logistics platform for South-Eastern Europe, which we have drawn up in the programme of this coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr. Peter Verlic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u47	Respectable. Although we do not object to the basic purpose of the proposal for a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which provides earmarked funds for investment and maintenance of public railway infrastructure between 2010 and 2023. This law will therefore give us the euro of railways. However, before you press the button for this law by the honourable Members and members of the coalition, it is only right to remind you that this railway euro is taken from Slovenian taxpayers, who are required to pay an annual road traffic vehicle duty each year when the vehicle is registered, and this law will fully redirect this duty to the modernisation of rail tracks. So this annual tax will become a railway tax that will be paid by all Slovenians who drive their cars on bad roads and unbuilt developmental road axes. Would it not be more fair to use this road tax to build the road development axis from Ljubljana to Kočev, for the third development axis from Koroška to Bela krajina, for the fourth and for the new, fifth, development axis from Unca, past Rakek, Cerknica, Block, Sodražice to Unca, which we have been proposing to you in the mission group for quite some time? It is not fair that, in particular, foreign heavy goods vehicles that are most destructive to our motorways do not contribute anything under this law for the modernisation of rail tracks. There's no euro. Fuel due to expensive excise duties introduced by Pahor's government is more likely to flow abroad because it is cheaper there, taxes in Slovenia are not paid, and our motorways are increasingly destroyed and the environment is polluted. If the main purpose of modernising railways is to divert heavy freight from roads to railways, then it is only right that this heavy freight transit, which is rolling along Slovenian highways, is dominated in particular by foreign freight vehicles, pays part of the toll for the modernisation of railways. This will make it possible for those who are most destructive of our motorways and the environment to contribute financially to the construction of railways, but when these upgrades are made, part of this transit can be diverted to railways. Such an amendment, which instead of the intended source of the annual road vehicle duty, sets out part of the tolls collected for freight vehicles, has been tabled in our parliamentary group and we suggest that you seriously consider it in the coalition before the vote. Otherwise, we find that the adoption of this law is about the swindling and duplicity of the coalition. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we introduced a more comprehensive law on the construction of priority sections of railways in the Republic of Slovenia at the end of 2009, which was then completely rejected by you on the ground that it is a prerequisite for the adoption of such a law for the adoption of a resolution of the national programme for the modernisation of railway infrastructure. Interestingly, the proposal for this law now states in Article 3 that these funds will be updated in accordance with a national programme that is not yet in place. Today, however, the fact that the Government has not yet prepared a national programme for the modernisation of railways and that it is already very late and has not yet been addressed by the National Assembly is no longer a problem. And without any mistake, this was not invented by the SDS, and you are clearly reminded of this by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The Legislative and Legal Service also points out that the fact that a national programme has not yet been adopted means prejudgment, which means that money will be collected, how it will be spent, and this moment is not known. That is why we have prepared amendments that improve your proposal for a law and essentially follow the content of our rejected law on the construction of priority sections of railways. I propose that you also support our other amendments, because, for example, there will be a section of the Celje-Velenje-Dravograd-border railway line with Austria, which, among other things, we propose as a priority, only one on the list of good wishes, as the State Secretary Igor Jakomin said on the Transport Committee. It is interesting, however, that Korean carists will also have to pay a road tax for the modernisation of railways, but their route, if Dr. Jakomin’s secretary of state does not change his mind, will remain only a beautiful and godly desire. I propose that you study and support our amendments well before the vote, depending on whether we support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u48	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Aloj Potočnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you. Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a Law on the provision of funds for public railway infrastructure investments is due to a 15-year gap in investment in development and maintenance of railway infrastructure. The gap between investment assets, road and rail infrastructure has therefore increased from year to year. The Government’s reaction to the law is urgent and there are no concerns about it. The main purpose of this Act is to provide dedicated resources for the preparation, organisation, management and implementation of investments and the maintenance of public rail infrastructure, thereby ensuring the smooth implementation of investments and maintenance works for public benefit over a longer period of time. Investments will, we are sure, allow for modernisation and thus faster economic development, a higher level of safety and reliability of rail transport. It should be noted, however, that the Government will present a resolution on a national programme of public rail infrastructure based on a study of commodity flows in a short time, which will undoubtedly justify economic investment. And that's what we're missing out on: data, especially numbers, and the value-added consequences. However, due to the serious undernutrition of rail infrastructure, we will really support the proposed complementary bill in order to ensure that the limited resolution in the parliamentary procedure is also transmitted as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u51	Respectable present. In the parliamentary group, although we support investment in rail infrastructure, we believe that it is imperative to respect the legal order and the laws in the field of finance, which is also pointed out by the legal and regulatory services in their opinion. We therefore propose that the Ministry or Government prepare a new proposal for a law that respects the Constitution and the law on public finances. We cannot support such a law as is before us, because it is an illegality and a prejudiced solution, because, as we know, we do not yet have a national programme to be the basis for such changes to the law. Furthermore, the inadequacy and ambiguity of the provisions on the purpose and method of use of the funds is unacceptable and the provisions of the law should be seriously considered and supplemented accordingly. We are aware of the catastrophic situation on the railways, which already affects the level of safety of the entire railway system, but we estimate that the Government should seek another source of funding for investment and for the maintenance of public rail infrastructure. We cannot support the proposed way of transferring funds from the road to the rail system, since we have largely unregulated roads across Slovenia in the countryside. It is certainly necessary in the future to redirect freight traffic from roads to railways, which will allow greenhouse gas emissions to be reduced, so the Government should seek European funds and other development resources available, as we have repeatedly pointed out in our Group of Members. It is also unacceptable because the proposed financing of public rail infrastructure investments from the annual road traffic vehicle activity revenue can be expected to slow the modernisation of the state road network on the third development axis and other priority development axes, which is unacceptable from a development perspective. We will support those amendments that improve the text and purpose of the law. In view of which they will adopt, we will decide on the support of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. In the DeSUS Group, we support a proposal for a law whose aim is to establish resources for the purpose of raising funds for public rail infrastructure investments for a certain period of time from 2010 to 2023. The funds will be collected from the annual road transport vehicle duty and the concession fee for the use of the port activity paid by Luka Koper. The budget estimates EUR 125.08 million in 2010 and EUR 166.8 million in 2011. Total investment in rail infrastructure is €275.5 million this year, of which €65.7 million is European; and €314.2 million in 2011, of which €66.6 million is European. Together, Slovenia will invest €589.7 million in rail infrastructure over the next two years, of which €132.2 million is European funding. This is cross-financing, also known by some other countries, including Switzerland. The law will allow for a better implementation of the national rail infrastructure programme in the future. However, we expect the Government to prepare a new national programme in a short time. The 1996 railway national programme has not been fully implemented, but only in one third, due to a lack of resources, so this bill will provide the means for programmes to be made available and that we will be able to spend European funds. The provision of financial resources will allow for the smooth implementation of investments and maintenance works for the public benefit of the Slovenian Railways. The planned means will modernise public rail infrastructure, allowing for more modern traffic management and thus a smooth and quality passenger and freight traffic flow. In the DeSUS Group, we hope that, with all the attention that Slovenian Railways have received recently, and with all the financial resources that are being invested in this bottomless pit, the quality of the services provided by Slovenian Railways in passenger and freight transport will also be increased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u55	Your Honor! The bill proposed by the Government and seeks to provide funds for the necessary investments and development in public rail infrastructure, although it deserves a broader debate, because the projects, as well as the laws that we have adopted so far under the urgent procedure, have not exactly taken place. It is certain that we are late to update infrastructure, which consequently reduces only the safety and competitiveness of the entire rail system. If it is believed that only by the immediate adoption of the law will the necessary means be provided for the modernisation of rail infrastructure, which is still necessary for the transfer of road freight to railways, the law can be supported by ecology as well as positive effects and reductions in greenhouse gas emissions. Of course, I wonder how you will be able to redirect freight traffic from road to rail, since, as you know, the Slovenian National Party has been pointing this out for years and nothing has happened until today. The road lobby is certainly too strong and responsible for not doing so, obviously subject to capital, which is certainly large in this industry. We are certainly interested in the Slovenian National Party to finally approach the improvement of the situation in the field of Slovenian railways, because, as we see, the situation is devastating and competition is constantly increasing. The efficiency of the economy is increasingly dependent on transport and logistics services, and indirectly on the development of places and regions. The situation is alarming. In all areas we have outdated tracks, signalling devices, safety devices, freight traffic takes place on a slippery slope, which causes us to lose transport every day, as the cargo is already diverted on the roadways across Slovenia. We have a geographically important position because we are at the crossroads of the European transport corridor and we do not take advantage of it. The state we have hasn't been in since yesterday. All of this has been monitored by the government for 20 years and no one has moved. A lot of money has been spent, but, as we see, it has had no noticeable effect, and no one is responsible for asking, especially the seventh force, but no, it is mainly interested in how Members vote in the Slovenian National Party. The situation, as we know, that the conditions of railway work have also been poor, is certainly also blamed on trade unions, which still play a decisive role in the development of railways today, since, as we have seen so far, they have always had a major impact on railway leadership and their decisions. Thus, it would be right to assume responsibility in the lines of the railway union because of the situation that is currently taking place on the Slovenian Railways. The funds to be collected for the implementation of investment projects will not, as the proponents assure us, have financial implications for other public funds. These are the funds to ensure the implementation of this law and the appropriations in the budget from the inflows of environmental duties to be applied to air loads by CO2 emissions. As we see, it will be a major resource for which we hope in the Slovenian National Party that it will be used for the purposes, as described, because the experience we have in 1996 when a national programme for the development of public rail infrastructure was adopted, together with a 10-year motorway, should ensure modernisation and a competitive position of railways in the field of transport - this has not happened. A lot of dedicated resources have been used and only 30% of the targets have been achieved. As we can see, this did not disturb anyone either, although economic growth was high, as we like to say, it was a time of conjuncture. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we rightly ask ourselves whether something will change now. In fact, nothing's changed. Again the same people, the same responsibility and the same political parties. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the draft law in the hope that it will be really different now. It is true that mistakes, which are also made, what we learn, but the price, as we see, is always too high. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u56	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 24. 3. 2010 says you got them on the bench recently. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Please. Anyone else? Dr. Peter Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Well, in my presentation of our Group's position, I actually said what that basic purpose of this amendment is. The basic purpose of this amendment is that this resource, as defined in the proposal for a law, is to be first collected from the annual road traffic charges and from the concession fee of Luke Koper, in order to avoid that purpose. All Slovenians who register a car every year and pay this road tax, we now know that we will pay the railway euro. Okay. But we do have a foreign transit of heavy goods vehicles driving on our highways, but they don't pay and don't contribute anything; but they burden our motorways with our environment, and the main purpose of modernising railways is to redirect heavy transit from roads to railways. Even if we look at the spirit of the Eurovignette Directive, it speaks this way. So, it seems fair to us in our parliamentary group that, in fact, the one who is burdening - and it is definitely a heavy freight transport - to pay this part of the burden also for the modernisation of Slovenian railway tracks. And not just that! It seems right to us that as a dedicated source, not only one toll is designated as a source of modernisation, but other sources are mentioned. When a billion-dollar investment, I don't know, in the construction of the railway line, let's say, from Kopra to Divaca, which we are talking about so much, will not only be collected from these charges, but will be budgeted, these will be debts, European funds, they can also be provided through public-private partnership, and in certain cases also by local communities, if these are sections of the railway lines of regional importance. It is right that this is set in one place, because in fact we do not say anything new, we simply give a substantive legal basis and we improve, in our opinion, the text of the law. We therefore propose that you support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this amendment to Article 2? Yes, please, Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. I will not support the amendment to Article 2 of the SDS Group. Indeed, the content of this amendment also affects other areas which cannot be resolved in any way in such a simple manner as is envisaged in the amendment itself. In order to determine by regulation how to finance infrastructure investments and maintain infrastructure. In fact, the first paragraph of this amendment provides for a source of tolls collected for freight vehicles. We know that these tolls are included in Darsa's programme, especially in the part where it is necessary to repay the credits already paid for the motorways being built and that, finally, this toll system is being completed. This amendment would reach out to funds that are not enough for future to fully repay the credits already paid and all the anuities resulting from this. So this amendment is unacceptable. It is also impossible to interfere with Darsa's toll system with the regulation, but it is also appropriate to adapt the minimum annual programme for the restoration and maintenance of motorways, which also provides for the source of the toll, and also probably the law allowing Darsa to devote this resource to the payment of the credits paid. For other sources that this amendment imposes or foresees when it says that rail infrastructure can be built by borrowing from European funds and can also be from a public-private partnership or from local communities, this amendment does not, in fact, need to be done because we already have the debt already foreseen in the budget as a source, European funds are already foreseen as a source. If public-private partnership is also possible, this will also be possible in accordance with the legislation in force in this area and local communities can also, if they so wish, conclude co-financing agreements for the construction of certain railway tracks if they so choose. So there is no need for an amendment to this title, but in the part where it interferes with tolls, it is not feasible in this form, so that I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss the amendment? I'll make my application because you've been checked in. The word is Branko Marinič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to you all. Well, what did we want the amendment to achieve in Article 2? It is very brief but sufficiently clear in the proposal that the resources for the public rail infrastructure and maintenance tasks are based on the annual road traffic duty and the concession fee of the port of Koper, which belongs to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Well, here it should be noted that yesterday it was also raised on the Committee on Transport that part of this levy would also be lost by the local community. It has been explained that, if we look a little bit wider, we can find that in any case, part of this means is not in Luka Koper, but in public rail infrastructure. This is also a good solution, we believe, but we also wanted to define more precisely the sources of funding arising from the budget, from other forms that are currently known even in the context of the public-private partnership. This is not irrelevant and is also important to Slovenian railways in anticipation of a strategic partner. If we took this into account today, it would probably be timely, for sooner or later, if this partner comes, then surely the content of this law will have to be corrected. Therefore, we have suggested that it is right for our amendment proposed under Article 2 to confirm that it improves the situation or content now defined in Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž Han. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u63	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. It's interesting when I listen to old railroaders, unionists, what care they have all of a sudden for roads in this country. When I listened to them years ago, their main concern was the construction of the railway and infrastructure and so on. 6 months before the local elections, however, it is important for the main unionists on the railway, the former, to build roads in Slovenia. It is no wonder that in the 18 years they did not know how to take care of such important railway infrastructure in Slovenia and today there are important road sections, I will say, from village to village. We all know what needs to be built in Slovenia. There are many others to be built next to the highway cross, I will say, roads in Slovenia. A third development axis, Mr Verlic, needs to be built, but it is also necessary to build and maintain railway infrastructure, and we are still in times we do not want. This government is the only government so far, and the Prime Minister and the Minister, who are deeply aware of this problem. That is why this law, which is before us, which will allow us to build this railway infrastructure in the years ahead. The law clearly spells out the source from which it will be financed, and this means that it is an annual levy on the use of road vehicles and only concession fees for the provision of port activities, etc., not to mention. And of course also CO2 coupons, which are also a specific source. Your amendment, however, says that this could be financed from the part of tolls collected for freight vehicles, but also for funds provided under the public-private partnership. Look, this public private-partnership thing, I've got a lot in my life. We are all talking about a public-private partnership, what we are going to build, how foreigners will come here to invest in our infrastructure, and I don't know where else - very few people can build in this way. And that from local communities, which I find absurd at all, is that the congregations will build rails. Please! They don't have other things that are already in the law. So I think that this amendment of yours is attracted to the hair and maybe even a little redness on the cheeks, because the party that wasn't so entangled in the railway lobby was able to start rebuilding the railways, until your client, who, I'll say, is known for having a major asset on the railway, but you haven't been able to finance the railways in all these years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u64	Thank you. Mr. Miran Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Very briefly. I will not support the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 2 for two reasons in particular. It is one because it also includes funds from local communities or municipal budgets. You know that it is impossible for the local community to impose something by law unless you also provide adequate financial resources to local communities. That's one reason. The second reason is that if we are adopting legislation relating to the competences of local communities - but here this amendment is a financial burden that the local communities are also supposed to assume - such a legal solution should also be put into discussion by local communities in order to define it. I have already said in the introduction, on behalf of the Group of Members, that in my view this dedicated money, which will be collected for investments in rail infrastructure, will not be sufficient. I am counting on good projects to make use of more European money than we have used so far, because the realisation in this area is poor and there is likely to be an additional financial resource to be provided. But I think it's a matter of a resolution or a national programme. I seriously expect this government to come forward with a resolution or national programme as soon as possible. The resolution should also identify the priority sections, the timeline and, of course, the necessary financial resources required for these investments in rail infrastructure and also for maintenance, as well as the resources to be provided in the future. I also expect that the Government will also fix the national programme for the state road network and within it for the important development axes that we still need in our country, because those places that do not lie at the fifth or the tenth motorway corridor are at the expense of not being built on development axes in some way in a developmentally subordinate position. I expect this government to submit these two resolutions or national programmes to the debate as soon as possible, both to the committees and, of course, to the plenary. As for the second part of the source, as far as the tolls are concerned. You know what that means, Mr. Verlich? If we accept this, it means that tomorrow we can start preparing a rebalancing of the national highway programme. By taking this resource, which is intended in addition to the money collected under the vignette system, for the repayment of loans that we have already rented richly in the last period - this credit obligation is not small, it is more than four billion - and if we take this resource, then we need to provide some other funds to repay these loans and thereby reduce development and money for different areas. For these two reasons, I will not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u66	Mr. Verlich, you want a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u67	Yes, I must replicate to Mr Jerič what you have just mentioned in relation to this part of the toll. You know, that's what I'm going to say: yes, whatever the national program of Darsa is. And let Dars start acting rationally, because we are at a time when, as we hear, construction is in crisis, probably works can be appreciated. We can probably bring down 20% of the rebalancing right now and 20% of the toll lady, for that part of the tolls for freight vehicles that we are going to use to modernise rail infrastructure; even if what I'm hearing is happening, I will, of course, ask the Minister of Transport the question that new people are hiring at Dars. That more than 20 new jobs - I don't know if this is true - then this national programme balance is needed. You know, he can save quick, not just because they're guilty, but because he can't know what he's doing. Dars can start acting rationally, maybe he hasn't hired new people, I hope he doesn't, and then he can save money and then these funds can also be used to invest in rail infrastructure. I don't think it's that simple.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u68	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u69	Thank you very much. This is where I have to intervene. I feel like we're putting things in the right place with respect to finance. Dars made about €230 million worth of tolls last year, never in history. It will have 500 million loans per year in 2012, due to its exceptional indebtedness, in particular in 2004-2008. If we take it from trucks worth 130 million euros a year, the tolls, we put them on the railways, I can't count these equations yet. If anyone on the side knows it, then please tell me how to make so little money and railway infrastructure and pay for all the credits. I'm sorry. I really can't understand this as a minister. I am always open to all proposals, and I am ready to support them, but I expect that these proposals also have meat on their bones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u70	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 2? Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I would suggest to all coalition members, as well as to the Government, that you read the magnetograms in the debate when a similar law was passed in the Slovenian Democratic Party on the construction of priority sections in railway infrastructure, where you all called that until we had a national programme drawn up, that law was in fact also inconsistent with our legal order. Today, however, we face the same situation. When a coalition colleague expressed his expectation that this national programme would be ready in due course, I fear it will not. That is the case, too, is the session that began today. This is the shortest meeting in the history of Slovenia. There is no anti-crisis law, we are discussing completely irrelevant matters, so this is worrying. As far as this amendment is concerned. See why again with this law you try to impose all the burden on our citizens, on our users of roads. We already have the road infrastructure destroyed by mistakes in the past 20 years, when we built highways with the money we should use to build and maintain other roads. Now that we have to maintain those when we have to repair them, we are upgrading them, and this is how we would try to drain that money for the construction of the railway infrastructure. I agree that railway infrastructure needs to be updated, built and also systematically looked for ways to redirect freight traffic to railways - every day I drive! And probably all those who drive, you can see that hundreds of thousands of trucks are driving on highways instead of on railways. It is therefore necessary to first burden those who will co-finance the construction of railway infrastructure, which also destroy motorways. With such an amendment, we also place at least one part of it, liability or financial burden, on those who are also eligible. That's why such an amendment is completely in place, corrected. And, of course, also look for ways to maintain and upgrade both railways and motorways as well as road infrastructure. Because this is absolutely necessary. Thus, the amendment we have proposed is more than meaningful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u72	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I hope you've missed the fact that this is a irrelevant matter, this law. This law is one of the most important issues for the railway infrastructure system of the Republic of Slovenia in the past years, I do not know how many years, because it provides the means we have provided for the road programme but not for the railway. I hope you missed it. With regard to the national programme, let me just say a few words. The national programme - we still have the old one and it's fulfilled 30%. The national programme has several projects that are currently underway. Let me just mention the second track, let me just mention the electrification of Hodosh-Prager. Let me mention the restoration of the existing track between Divesto and Kopro. Therefore, it is only for these three projects that I have now counted, which are not met by the old national programme, which must be completed at this time, and many others. We are currently working for a billion and 600 railway infrastructure projects, 1 billion and 600, at this moment. And there's not enough money. The national programme will be prepared, it will be much more realistic, it will not only be a list of wishes, because the list of wishes is then not realized. Therefore, we will now order a study that will actually tell what is most meaningful in this country to do on the railway infrastructure network so that we do not spend too much tax money. Cross-financing, however, is a matter introduced by Switzerland in Europe. In cross-financing, she collected some more gas money, which is also paid by those who never travel by rail, even though another moment is relevant in Switzerland, that everyone rides by rail. I will say, this cross-financing is the idea of a transport policy in which we try to stimulate public transport at the expense of personal transport. That's the point of this rule. And this amendment goes against what the purpose of this regulation is.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u74	Does anyone else want to discuss this article? Mr. Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u75	I have to say, I'm really embarrassed. I cannot support the amendment, but of course not the law. For as this is set out, it is simply impossible, because the fact is that this Article 2 speaks of some kind of capture of some money from somewhere that is, in any case, an integral part of the integrated budget and is devoted to things that are defined by the budget and other national development programmes. Here we are now doing something that, in my opinion, is also at odds with our legislation, namely, that we deliberately define the source from another perspective for this activity, but not like the budget and the Law on the Implementation of the Budget and all that the benefits are an integral part of the integral revenue and in line with the programmes then also annually intended for certain matters. Here, for example, is the kind of intentionalness that we should have, even in all other cases, when it comes to, say, excise duty or cigarette taxes. It would be necessary, and it was already huge in the National Assembly, that those funds collected from this title would be devoted to health care or construction, if you want the Oncology Institute, where most of those who smoke and this is one of the consequences. That's why I don't understand these things. I believe that as soon as possible we will complete a comprehensive revision of the national programme and provide resources. All resources are possible, from these duties or some amount. I don't know if you've reconciled all these things well with your finances, but to say that this source here, which is intended to do so, will not affect the financial implications of other public funds, and thus will not reduce the possibility of dividing by other items in this budget is simply unrealistic. This will have some major consequences, as one part of the collected budget charges will be because the annual road vehicle duty, as well as the concession fee for Luka, are integral parts of the revenues of the integrated budget. And so if this is going to go on somewhere else, there will be no and there will be no consequences. Finally, we will be in the National Assembly, where we will have to take into account in the budgets for future years or with rebalans that one part of the money that has been earmarked for us has been accepted for a two-year budget and has already been taken into account by the development programmes where some money will go. And here you have yet to anticipate how you will compensate for the amount of money that you will now spend on these projects on other items. I don't understand what I'm doing. I cannot accept the amendment because my entire philosophy of law and approach is not close. I am sure that it is those who say that something must be done as soon as possible and so on and that the law is therefore put in place under urgent procedure, as well as those who warn or warn that it is necessary to do so in one systemic way, that the entire national programme must be pursued and so on and that it is true that there are many things in progress and that some new things cannot be started if we do not have some basis, but let us go all the way, not only in this way. So if, on the one hand, I know that debt, European funds and so on, are possible resources, but nevertheless, because you actually just extend this question to some other financiers, but I don't think it solves things either. My support for the amendment and the law cannot be obtained because I am not sure that this is even legally correct and consistent with the Public Finance Act, given the other laws governing these issues. If you can convince me, I might change my mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u76	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u77	Thank you very much. It is of interest to me that the government side is warming up in order to set budgetary allocations and set them in the budget for this exceptional national objective. Now, I ask myself, earlier, Mr. Minister spoke about the preparation of a national programme to prepare, what will happen in the next national programme? I wonder if the current Government, with its 'dispersion', is completely in a position to prepare national programmes in any field. It seems to me that he is dealing with himself and that the national objectives are currently completely behind. Of course, and we are talking about financial resources, and when the coalition behaves as if it will come when, that is, the national objectives are set out far into the future, I ask myself and ask the Minister and the Government whether of these billions, for which the Government has further committed itself in the last year, or maybe you are putting this money on some kind of stock, and you do not need budgetary resources, but you will, when you have a prepared national programme, as you say, spend these funds. I doubt it. I think the billions of debt you've been owed in the last year will disappear. Apparently, they will disappear because the government has failed to put them somewhere where at least some new jobs could be opened up, where people could see that the debt was spent for something useful. I wonder where this money goes because nothing gets lucky. And once again, if the government does not consolidate itself if it deals with itself, if it moves away from national objectives, if it also defends the opposition's assistance, that it does not accept any idea for such important national objectives as railway infrastructure if it does not use money as it behaves, then what does it do?Oh, my God! There is a public opinion, and I share it that this government is not ready now, is unable, because of the situation in the government coalition, to build, to work on national projects. As a result, the concern expressed by the government party that the 5th corridor would bypass Slovenia. And you will be historically responsible in this government if we remain alone. Not only will the Bled conference fail the project and the fiasco, it seems that there will be a remarkable fiasco in the railway area and that what Slovenia has never been, because it was sometimes the most developed railway, but will become the largest transport island in the future, where we will also lose financial resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u78	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Jerovska, I am pleased that you mentioned the national programmes. We accepted the Air Force in this National Assembly. Since I was Minister, in 2001, a regulation had been adopted that required the government to do so, and so far no government had had the need to adopt a national aviation programme. The second national programme, for which I will give the green light today, is a maritime programme which should be adopted in 2000, and so far no government has had the need to adopt a national programme on this, and you will get it on the bench in very short time, because I will put it into public debate today. The third national programme, for which no government has so far had the need to do it, is a national programme for state roads. This year you will get it on your bench and also the national railway programme, so I am pleased that you mentioned the national programmes as what has not been done so far, and in fact, since I run the Ministry, all of you will come to your bench. On the fifth corridor, however, I spoke to the Commissioner for the last time, but I think this is very important information, and I would like to share it with the National Assembly. He told me that the corridors would not change, that there would be more corridors to be added. And this Commissioner's commitment seems very important to the Republic of Slovenia as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No, no, no. About this 2nd article? We are moving forward for a new Article 3. There's something I'd like to draw your attention to that I'm also reminded of by my professional service. The amendments for the new Article 3 are not admissible for the new Article 5 and for the new Article 6 of the Rules of Procedure, so that they are irrelevant. We can only proceed with the consideration of the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. I am opening the debate on Article 3, the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. Excuse me? Not new, just Article 3. I'm following the Rules of Procedure. Who wants to discuss it? Mr. Mirko Brulc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u81	Thank you very much. At the previous amendment, it was said: this is simply not the case. However, I do not think that this Article 3 is as simple as that. Here we have a collection of 16 wishes, as it says, it is an international important railway connection, such as Ljubljana, Vrhnika, Kranj, Tržič and more. But I would suggest to the proponents that they are aware that there is another Goriška somewhere in the West who also has a railway. And if we go here now a set of desires, but I think this is not acceptable and does not fall under this concept of this law, but I will mention that in Goriška together with the province we have prepared a very thorough review of the needs for better railway connections, because you know from Nova Gorica to Ljubljana over Jesenice or Sežane we travel so far as we can transport half of Europe. We are preparing documentation, very seriously, not as indicated here, without concrete pricing calculations and so on. I will give this material, which is brand-new, to Minister Vlačič. We have variants, we have calculations on what modernization of Nova Gorica - Sežana - Divaca - there is 280 million Euros, which means a whole new route across the Vipava Valley, on the Trembled Tunnels and break-in to Logatca, a billion 800 million Euros, etc. Such an approach should be everywhere, but then somewhere else we should talk about these valuables, not list 16 tracks, which is, of course, for all those who live on these routes, a very interesting and bad ministry and government, who will not allow this to be discussed in particular, but when they count the costs of this, we see that, I don't know, two budgets of the country. I, Mr Minister, will give you this, you will look at it, it is a serious matter, together, I stress, with the Italians we plan it, we are of course thinking about Adria A projects, electricity and more. I expect a more serious approach, so I cannot support this amendment to Article 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u82	Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u83	Thank you so much for saying that. It is a shame that we cannot also discuss the new Article 3 which provided for a specific earmarked budget of 0.9% of gross domestic product per year. Because it would be a real possibility for something to be done in this area. That is what I think is the wish of all of us, both coalitions and opposition. Article 3 of, of course, I support, or amendment, also because in this point it speaks of the establishment of a new railway link between Celje and Velenje, Dravograd and the state border with the Republic of Austria. This is in some way a railway connection, which has already been discontinued four decades ago, and this has also caused the development in Koroška in these years to be so lagging behind. But I would say something about the Koroška track, lines from Maribor to Prevalje and further towards Austria. This route really needs thorough reconstruction and thorough attention of Slovenian Railways and also the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. See, on the route from Maribor, Maribor-Thesno to the station Ruše is a basic pressure of 20 tonnes and on this section freight trains can drive from 20 kilometers per hour. From Prevalje to Pliberk, the state of the tracks is so that freight trains can drive 10 kilometers per hour. Now tell me, gentlemen, how are we gonna get the freight to the railways if they drive trains at an average speed of 15 kilometers per hour? I'm talking about this Coroque track. This route has some signaling from the time of Mary Teresa, Franz Joseph, with visual signals and foregleams. Your colleagues in Austria are thinking about breaking the link from Pliberk to Prevaljem because of the lack of interest and arrogance of the Slovenian side. That wouldn't be good. See, trains across the border of Transvalience to neighbouring Austria only drive on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. For example, the cargo arriving from Tezna to the Prevalya station in some other days can wait for the weekend to reach neighboring Austria for 10 kilometers, which is outrageous and unacceptable. Minister Vlačič, I hope that you will not tell me that I am a "lecht", given your expression that you used on the national TV3 programme yesterday, if it goes so far around this Koroška line, then it is best to establish an outdoor museum on this route and that you transfer your competences to the Ministry of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u84	Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u85	Thank you so much for saying that. There is something that I do not understand why, according to the Rules of Procedure, we cannot deal with the above-mentioned articles by the Vice-President. Whether the Rules of Procedure have changed from yesterday to today, because yesterday we discussed the contents of these amendments on the Committee, and today we cannot do so at the meeting of the National Assembly, so I would ask for some further clarification. As for certain specific matters arising from our amendment to Article 3. Believe me, he is truly well-intentioned, in fact replacing what the proposaler would have had the basis to submit to the parliamentary procedure at least the content of this Article in the draft law. What does this article of the bill actually say? That the basis for providing funding resources to public railway infrastructure is based on a national programme that we do not have. I am pleased when the Minister said that some national programmes have been made, but if someone needs a national programme more when we talk about transport, then the railway is the one he needs most. And believe me, right here, if you don't define, if you don't have these basic parameters, you're right about these sections, then somehow the blank currency is given that those who decide will be very subjective. And as one of the colleagues said, let us forget about some parts, perhaps even in our small Slovenia. And our proposal for this amendment, not only is it 16 consecutive numbers as a list of wishes, but we should probably add another wish and thus also help to capture some of the integrity of the regional link, which also stems from some internationally established corridors from which we should not, in fact, deviate. If we define some content of the law and do not determine that a source of funding, which is strictly intended, will be used in precisely known sections of the law, then this is a poor journey to the content of this law. And we wanted to complement article 3 with an amendment that specifically defines what is missing and what the proposaler writes in article 3 himself. And if that were also the basis for us to see today, because some of the debaters saw from our amendment what lines, which sections are actually going and then found that unfortunately something is still missing. And I believe it's missing. Goriška may really deserve some kind of section, but he's not in here. By upgrading, by deliberating in Parliament and in this particular amendment, we can come to the conclusion that we are adding another section. And in our desire for the serious purpose of this law in the SDS we really propose that this content of our amendment be accepted, because, as I said at the outset, it is very good and replaces in fact what the proposer has released.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u86	Thank you very much. With regard to Article 3, I would also like to explain the following. When talking about new articles in these amendments, we will write before the vote that this will be done by adding a new second paragraph to the first paragraph of Article 3, which reads as follows: the full content of your amendment, but not by becoming a new Article 4 to the third paragraph. As for the new articles, I would like to draw your attention to the Rules of Procedure, Article 135 of the Rules of Procedure, which in the second paragraph of the Rules of Procedure, and this has not been amended to date: "The amendment can be submitted to those articles of the bill to which the mother's working body has adopted the amendments." These amendments have not been adopted and no new amendments may be made requiring new articles. That's my answer. Mr. Verlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u87	Thank you. Whatever. Yesterday there was a whole complication on the Committee on Transport, and it was the committee's secretary who asked us to change, so we took a 30-minute break. I thought the chairman of the committee was going to do something anyway. It is a pity that this amendment cannot be considered. It sets out that the budget would allocate at least 0.9% of the gross social product as a dedicated budget source, which would mean at least EUR 300 million. I would be waiting for Mr Han, Mr Han, the new railway driver, to press for this amendment, and I would really like to show that he is a new railway driver, and I'm afraid that this opportunity is not going to happen now, but this opportunity has slipped out of his hands because he was very, very much in favour of this incentive and would probably have shown it, but yesterday on the committee you unanimously rejected this amendment of ours. Once we have the will to do something on the railways, we're in. When this needs to be shown in concrete terms, we are against it. Well, this is also the fate of railway stories in the past, since the adoption of the national programme. With regard to this amendment, this amendment was tabled for one reason, which is why you have mainly rejected our proposal for the Law on the Construction of Priority Railway Lines in the Republic of Slovenia. You said, "There's no national programme, we don't know how we're going to finance this, what it's going to look like, what resources are going to be." In short, it's not exactly defined. Now you've come up with your proposal for a law, and you're setting up resources, of course, with a national programme that doesn't exist. In order to at least know what resources are being used for, we have also written in the amendment, mainly due to the involvement of the Republic of Slovenia in international transport corridors and the internal connectivity of Slovenia with railways, we propose 16 priority sections. There is no problem in the debate that any of these will be added and improved. It's not a list of good wishes, as was said yesterday. These are Slovenia's priorities in the area of rail transport development, we firmly believe. Both the transport corridors we know and, of course, those regional routes that have already been and are now abandoned, and it is right to write this down and our proposal has already been in the previous law and also in giving a legal priority. In our view, it is not enough just a resolution that is not yet in fact yet, and resources are already being determined, but why not put priority sections in place and put them in the legal text. The resolution will probably set them up anyway. At least I hope there will be, and that is why, of course, I propose that you support this amendment. I find it difficult to believe, for example, that this part of Celje to Dravograd, even on the Committee on the Environment and Space at the Joint Meeting, has been presented as a possible development component not only of the road axis, but also of the railway, I find it difficult to believe that you will now say that this is a beautiful wish. I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u88	Excuse me, Minister. Mr. Han, the replica. Get a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u89	Very briefly, Dr. Verlich, a great railway expert. Indeed, I am also a friend of railways, railway infrastructure, general development of Slovenia, and that is why I would not support your amendment, which is modest, I want more reconstructions, not just those 16 sections that you remembered yesterday quickly in half an hour. Once we have the basis in the resolution, when we can make a public call, when people on the railways assess where it is more necessary and less necessary, then there will be more of these sections and then I will be happy to support them. I'm not a modest man, and I don't just want to support these 16 sections, so I don't support your amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u90	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u91	When we took a look at your amendment, if we were to add Metlik to the 10th point of Grosuplje, and if we added the New York route, we would add Maribor, Dravograd, mentioned earlier by Member Petek and Ljutomer, Gornja Radgona, the Austrian border, is a priority for the entire Slovenian railway network. In this sense, the value of the amendment is reduced to this extent, because I do not know why we let those lines down. Once again, I repeat the national programme, whether the old one is in force or not, may be a very long debate, but in that national programme there are currently ongoing projects. For how much money, I told you earlier, I can repeat, for over a billion and a sixth moment, and most of them are adapted to spend 440 million European funds.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u92	Anyone else would like to discuss this amendment to this article? I see a lot of hands. Check-in is on. Mr. Lois Posedel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u93	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. The amendment tabled by the SDS party will not be supported. I also said the same thing yesterday on the Committee on Transport and similar explanations on the Committee on Transport. I only had little hope that the presentations of such amendments, such as the new two, from the SDS party by someone other than Dr Verlič, who is only an expert on transport infrastructure, would not, after all, be a failure by the Secretary of State in the previous term, and I believe that they are not such proposals at his level, as it shows that the lists that are already attractive, are incomplete, I would rather expect, I also believe in replicas, from Mr Jerovška, who can also process everything from the Government, the affair, in the debate on investing in rail infrastructure. Today, he has forgotten only the erased and postwar killings, but since the debate has not yet been concluded, perhaps that will be the case. The topic, which is irrelevant to some, is actually extremely important, and these long years of non-investment in rail infrastructure are at every turn. We're all dissatisfied, we're all watching trucks on the road, we're all seeing how uncomfortable passenger traffic is, we all want change, and when it comes to it, debates and entanglements begin. What is the worst and what has been pointed out only once is extremely important, due to the unnecessary number of casualties on this particular infrastructure network of railways. Reaching only for a few days when the new death victim is again at unprotected crossings and crossings of railways and roads. Then again, after the old one, we have so many and so unprotected that we have old, non-modern infrastructure and that we need to do so. And I am just as unhappy as some coalition Members who said it would be right for the promised strategy of the national programme to be adopted by the resolution on the national programme. We also believe that it will be brief, because it has provided such assurances to the Minister, the Secretary of State and because we also need it. But not that we're inventing something new, but that it's actually true in 1996 and it's interesting that Mr Marinic finds today that we don't have a national programme. For four years, the SDS has been in government and so have you, and there has been no national programme. We could probably make up a lot of money in the previous term, at least make up papers to make use of funds that are not available today. That's why, I'm going to say, it's not serious or it's up to some of us, yesterday on the committee or today, and I'm going to say it's humiliating that you're asking us why we don't vote for a line. I was personally invited yesterday, Celje, Velenje, Dravograd, right away, but not on the list given a little before the law was discussed. The track, which some people in the valley still remember, has been dug up for more than 30 years in one part of it and is indeed envisaged in the presentation of developmental axes as one of the possible and good solutions, but probably not for the document we are adopting today. The government proposal makes it very clear that the funds will be spent on infrastructure investments and infrastructure maintenance, as set out in public development of public rail infrastructure and annual investment plans and annual investment maintenance plans. Therefore, it is probably a shame to think about where this money will go, because, as Mr Minister has said, so many and so many plans, projects, I think that about a billion was a number, is ready. Therefore, it seems to me that these serious debates have been misused again for this populist performance, how the Government does not want to improve, how it denies the source, when it could easily have been passed in the previous term in order to avoid 0.9% of the social product, could have proposed 2% of the social product in the previous term. The opposition to the previous mandate was not so irresponsible as to paint unrealistic goals, lay down laws on 2% investment in rail infrastructure, but this is not real. The same as is not a real amendment as proposed in Article 3. That's why [[...]] [[The ad in the hall.]] Yeah, it's too bad you guys aren't that bad. That is why I think the topics we have on the agenda are very serious, but I agree with Dr. Verlich, who says they have the will and that we can add another section today. They just showed up, Metlika, Solkan, so if anyone else has an idea, an hour and 10 minutes of debate, the right thing to do is to really cover up the fact that it wouldn't be too much in this debate, I think this is also a case of how each topic is used for populist performances, to prevent what on the other hand is absolutely necessary. [[...]] However, in fact, I cannot help but reiterate that we are expecting a national programme as soon as possible, then also the implementation and clarification of what has been exposed, a way of financing in light of the warnings of the Legislative Service on the integrated budget and the means of purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u94	Would you like Mr. Tanko? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Perhaps it would be worth asking how much Mary Teresa had for the railways in her budget, maybe five, seven percent - probably too much to build, and how much we had after World War II in the railway budget, when we dismantled a lot of them, including those that were built before that. So that if we go to history, even a little longer, gentlemen of the coalition, not only would we be burdened by what has been done in the last year or the last year of the previous term. But I do have one procedural question. You have previously announced, Madam Vice-President, that some of the amendments tabled by our Group of Members have not been properly tabled. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as far as the amendments are concerned, there have also been some complications on the working body which dealt with this law by emergency procedure and that these amendments have been tabled in accordance with the instructions of the expert committee. Therefore, I suggest that you immediately suspend the meeting in order to actually determine what has happened and on the basis of which instructions such amendments have been tabled. Since, in accordance with the instructions of the expert service of the Committee, amendments have been tabled in this way, something needs to be done. And that is why I also propose that in this break, half-paint, these matters be cleared up, found out, and that we actually see what else can be done and corrected with these amendments that have not yet been addressed. I think that the proposal is correct and I also expect you to order this break, and that this break will also examine the situation and situation that has led to such an application of these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I've been asking myself before, and what I said, I said. I can't give you a break. I am still taking note of Rule 135 of the Rules of Procedure, second indent, which has not changed to date. However, it is also likely that the expert services of your Group of Members should review this Rules of Procedure. That's why I can't take a break and move on. Here you go again. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Dear President! I would have understood this, your decision if this error had been made in the parliamentary group, but it was done because it had come to the guidance of the professional service of the working body, the secretary of the working body, how this matter should be done in this part. And I don't think it's unpredictable for us to order this break, this break, and to check together what actually happened, whether the service gave the wrong, inappropriate instructions for making amendments or not. Since we have been in contact with the secretary of the committee in this case, this can also be confirmed by the secretary of the committee and was previously with me, she also said that it was her fault. And that is why I also propose that you order a break and that these things be studied and that we look at what actually happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u98	Thank you very much. I was also informed that it was her misdirection. And I'm also informed that he agrees with what I said earlier. I therefore insist on the original decision. I am taking into account Article 135, second indent, and I do not think we can interrupt the meeting, but we are continuing with the debate as it began on Article 3. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. Perhaps only to this debate, which has been exposed and which is linked to the Committee on Transport. In fact, we have also ordered a half-hour recess to try to settle these issues so that there are no further concerns, but the fact is that the Committee has also voted on the amendments tabled by the SDS Group and has refused to be included in the amended law that we are considering here today. With regard to the substance of the amendment itself to Article 3, which mentions 16 thresholds which, of course, should also be a priority, it must also be made very clear that it is impossible to accept such an amendment, because not one section of the section mentioned between these 16 is known the financial consequences or values of this section. We can only assume that it is probably necessary for these 16 sections to have at least EUR 16 billion, this is pure speculation. This law speaks of this and Article 3 speaks of the fact that we have very clearly defined resources to invest in and maintain public railway infrastructure and these resources are defined under this law and are subject to the annual road transport vehicle duty and the concession fee of the port of Koper, which belongs to the Republic of Slovenia. These resources amount to € 125 million in 2010, estimated at € 166 million in 2011. Of course, if we look at the content of this law and the level of resources under this law, it is impossible to get 16 sections into this law, which, in fact, some rough estimate would probably be worth €16 billion. Thus, if this amendment were to be adopted, the law would not, in fact, be able to vote on it at the end, but it should be determined either by the Law-Legal Service or by the lawmaker that this text is inconsistent. This set of railway sections is, of course, possible to complement, as has already been said, not fully accounted for all the territory in Slovenia or all places in Slovenia that might still want a railway line. For a moment, if we were to just jump into a debate when we discussed similar laws at the previous meeting of the National Assembly, I also said that there might be 17 more tracks, that would be a route around the world, and we could also write it in this article in the same way as those 16 were written, because it is simply not a source. The proposers expect the Government's resources to be determined by a regulation, but not by a regulation. The amendment really goes far beyond the content of this law and far exceeds, of course, the form that would be appropriate for the National Assembly to adopt such an amendment. That is why, of course, I will not support this amendment, and I think that the financial consequences themselves are a strong enough argument that the National Assembly cannot fully support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u100	Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u101	This amendment contains a lack of reality, or rather it would be called a lack of imagination. For if we were to follow this other logic, then we should either write down some of the abandoned tracks consistently, but those who function are released, I don't know, but against Rogatac somewhere else. Of course, these stories that lead to the border are, I'll tell you if you know anything more, but it's all agreed that there will be traffic in Austria, Hungary, Italy and so on. But it's not important, because you didn't mean it in any way, so I understand, because you're dealing with all the laws with strict seriousness and responsibility, and you believe that this law doesn't define it, so you're going to have to put it in the space, because some of them aren't, and the old people weren't there, but that's another thing. I still have a bit of a problem with the resources themselves. I think that this is contrary to the Public Finance Act in the Republic of Slovenia and that in this way, like the gas tolar, the former, has changed into the Law on the Purposeful Collection of Road Construction Funds, runs into the state budget and not a single euro, not a single euro from that goes directly into the construction of motorways or the repayment of credits or anything like that. I would understand that you would say that the budget provides EUR 100 million or so a year, because this is what we need for these investments, whether a specific budget is being set up, or whether these funds are being used directly through development programmes. I don't care, but the only thing I can't understand and, in my firm belief, is that some dedicated resource that's collected or some tax that's in the set of charges can be one that corresponds to the amount of funds that we would need for these investments, but it's not the right way. I would really like to hear the answer whether, in the end, there will have to be a budget rebalancing in order to secure money for this and how it will be with those items for which money is allocated in the budget, because this is largely lacking when we speak for 2010 and 2011, when we have already identified these priorities. And we're missing those answers. I understand that this article of force is simple, that if you get the money, you will use it to make investments and to maintain this infrastructure. So once again, I'm asking if this can now be understood as some new tolar. We sometimes had a school tolar, a health tolar, a cultural tolar, a road tolar and so on, and others ran out after a period of time, but the gas changed with the new law and we adopted a new law, when Europe did not allow us to do so, or we had to change some ways of raising funds, and turn it into euros and so on. These are things that are in the air and I don't think I know if the goal will be achieved, the purpose of the law, even when we're talking about comparisons. The comparison with Austria, Germany and Italy in this part shows in no way that the way in which we are dealing with it would be comparable to those countries, in the end, to some other rules, but probably these comparisons are listed only because the law must have elements of comparison with other countries. But there's no comparability from these systems. First of all, it's completely different ways. I don't know, someone here was talking about 5% in the budget, about the purpose of collecting money or the end of the bond issue. I don't know why we wouldn't issue in the Republic of Slovenia a bond for the construction of this infrastructure, I'm sure if we were to stand in the back of the country, and in such a case, the country could certainly stand, go on the market, and be picked up by both legal persons and natural persons, because they would have a safe investment and a real fixed return for the duration. And there are many other things that can be cited in such discussions. Clearly, the pressure was that things needed to be fixed as soon as possible. The question is whether this is the way to solve these problems. After all, we must provide some long-term and stable or stable source of financing for construction here. Since this, if the highway programme was a programme for decades or 20 years, it is likely to be a programme for the twentieth or thirtieth years.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u102	Mr. Peter Verlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u103	Thank you very much. First, interestingly, some Members, as before, have already determined which of the representatives of the opposition or of the Slovenian Democratic Party can discuss the law. That's really new. In short, we will probably have to follow the coalition’s instructions on what we can discuss. Now for the amendment itself. When all of these 16 proposals, which are listed as priority sections, speak of them as being said that they cannot be supported, they are, in fact, the same, if not more, defined than your legal proposal. Your legislative proposal sets out the resources to be determined only by a resolution on the national programme for modernisation of railway infrastructure. At least we have identified ourselves in our amendment to the priority sections. Look, we're even quick to figure out that we could make it up to them. Why not? Okay. Still better than it is now in this bill, where resources are set for something because it has not yet been adopted. The SDS didn't make that up. This was also stated in its opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service. The legal and legal service says, I quote: "We first point out that the introduction of the legislative proposal indicates that the national programme to be adopted by the National Assembly is only in preparation and is prejudiced from this point of view." So you are giving a green light to resources that have not yet been defined, while attacking 16 priority sections, which the Slovenian Democratic Party believes are important for the balanced development of Slovenia. That's all this is about. And as you have seen, you yourself quickly realized that there could be an extra section, and that was the purpose. For when we introduced a law on priority railway construction in the Slovenian Democratic Party, you said, no, we cannot support this law, because the basis for anything like this is the national programme for modernisation of railway infrastructure. And what do we get on the table today? Today, we get on the table a government proposal for a law on the provision of resources, which has a national programme that does not exist on its substantive basis. Therefore, funds will be allocated somewhere, how they will be allocated in the future, when only a national programme or an annual investment plan, which is also unknown, who is actually accepting and defining it. Therefore, we have proposed that, despite all of this, in the absence of a resolution on the national programme, we should only determine in this law where this dedicated source should go. Yes, we have proposed 16 priority sections. If what Minister Dr. Vlačič said earlier is to add lines and get the whole Slovenian rail network, why not, still better than it is not. And this was this amendment, because there is simply no resolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u104	I see that no one wants to discuss any more, so I am closing the debate on the amendment to Article 3 and thus the amendments. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the assembly today, in 10 minutes in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this item of the agenda and also interrupt the 15th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by the vote at 12.20 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u105	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. Before that, I'd like to ask you to calm down. I also ask you to verify the functioning of the voting devices. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Public Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for Cultural Activities under the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 4. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 3. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Friday, 26. 3. 2010, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the adoption of the amendment and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Transport Act following a reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 9 of the SD, Zares, DeSUS, SLS. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. It's 77 votes against no one. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 17. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. in favour of 34 votes to 41. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill, within the framework of a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill, because in the second reading the proposed amendments were not adopted, one was adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the bill, sorry. I also ask that, qualified candidates, do they intend to table amendments to Article 9? No, no one's answering. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government have not informed me that due to the amendments adopted in the second reading of the proposal, the law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda - the proposal on the provision of funds for public rail infrastructure investments - the urgent procedure. As the amendments have not been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to, excuse me, we are continuing the second reading, i.e. by deciding on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled of 24. 3. 2010 We have tabled amendments to Article 2 of the SDS Group. Does anyone want an explanation of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Yeah. Mr. Verlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Regardless of the fact that the law on the bill as such the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly did not find the right words, it would be best to reject this law in its entirety, but in order to improve the text, we have proposed an amendment within the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which, in our opinion, is fair. In fact, we will now provide the means to modernise railways for all those who pay annual charges in Slovenia for the use of a road motor vehicle. So whenever you go and we go to register a passenger car, know that this fee goes directly to public rail infrastructure investments. Of course, we can also make that decision, so you have decided, and we suggest that this fee replaces part of the toll for freight vehicles. Who's destroying our highways? Who's burdening the environment? Foreign heavy cargo transit. This doesn't pay anything for the modernisation of railways. Nothing. Fuel is fueled abroad, even excise duty does not receive the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, taxes in Slovenia are not paid by foreign truckers, but they charge motorways. If the main purpose of modernising public rail infrastructure is to shift heavy freight transit from road to rail, then this resource would be more justified and more than fair. Thus, dear users of Slovenian cars, let us see how foreign trucks will drive in columns along our highways, and for the modernisation of railways we pay every euro when we go to register. That's too bad. That's not fair. This is not fair to Slovenian taxpayers, to Slovenian motor vehicle users. If we do not support this amendment, we have given in and let them drive unhindered on Slovenian roads, and we pay for the modernisation of the railways ourselves. So I suggest we take the amendment seriously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u107	Does Mr. Wingo Jelinčič wish to do so on behalf of the parliamentary group? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I'm going to explain how we're going to vote so that one of the coalition parties doesn't accuse me of getting a bribe from someone or something. The fact is that foreign trucks destroy Slovenian roads and do not contribute completely anything to the construction of Slovenian road infrastructure. Now, Slovenians, who drive here and pay taxes in Slovenia, in addition to giving money for motorways, will also pay money for railways from this toll. For several times, the Slovenian National Party has tabled proposals to reduce road traffic in such a way as to put foreign, mainly foreign, trans-Slovenian trucks on hard trains, on railways and to transport it in this way. Now, if anyone says again that I'm saying this because someone from the railroad bribed me, that's not true. Also, to be bribed by Slovenian trucks or foreign trucks, that is not true. By continuing to build on how you will judge the vote of the Slovenian national party. This is about the national interests that we defend in the SNS, and you do not care about this in the coalition parties. But that's what we need to stress. We will, of course, support this amendment. The reasons are clear. Once again, I speak, my fellow Members of the Coalition, it is no bribe, neither on the one hand nor on the other hand, and I will not give any bribes to any of the foreign carriers.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u109	Anyone else want a word on behalf of the parliamentary group? On behalf of the delegation? Mr. Janko Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u110	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, I say that we will not support this amendment because it cannot be supported. Part of the tolls collected for freight vehicles are an integral part of the means by which we repay already rented credits for the construction of motorways. If we take part of the tolls to pay off these loans, then, of course, in this law, it is necessary and probably in any other case, to tell how we will make up for this failure. Will this increase in debt in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia or what? In short, the content of this amendment far exceeds the content of the law under consideration, and it also interferes with the obligations already undertaken for debt in the construction of motorways. So that, of course, this amendment cannot be supported and if it is as well-intentioned as it has been presented, let me say that this law, which we are considering today, will also allow that part of freight transport can be diverted to the railways as soon as possible, which I think is also the whole time that we are talking about rail infrastructure, the goal of all those who are discussing in the National Assembly how to bring freight transport to the railways. If this law is adopted, of course, the system will also be able to unload motorways as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u111	Anybody else want to explain their voice? I'm opening the application. In your own name? Dr. Peter Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u112	Thank you very much. One more time. Of course, I will support this amendment, because, as I have already said in the position of our Group of Members, it is fair and all the time we are talking about that, but then, if we withdraw part of the toll that Dars vehicles contribute for the modernisation of the Slovenian Railways, it will just fall apart on beautiful Dars and it will, I don't know, increase the debt. No, it's not. If the real information circulating that Dars has hired 20 new people, then this part of the toll that goes on the salaries of these new 20 can be used to modernise the railway infrastructure, that is to say a little rationalisation at Dars. There must be too much money there, I'm sure. Then all these arguments that are now emerging and can quickly be found from these tolls instead of for new employees' salaries, which is very interesting in these times, but this part of the toll should be spent on freight vehicles for railway infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u113	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor. No, no, no. Mr. Willie Rezman? He's quitting. Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Of course, I will support such an amendment, because it is only reasonable to make such an amendment at least partially for the benefit of both railways and Slovenian roads. I am surprised by the fact that the coalition has acquired, by means of this law, earmarked funds for the rehabilitation or modernisation of railway infrastructure. We're not meeting. We're just putting it in one pocket. Is that our goal? All Members probably agree that you have in your environment many sections of existing roads, road infrastructures that are still in need of rehabilitation, which are still in need of repairs and how many new sections we will build. And now those funds that are earmarked for the registration that should be used for the rehabilitation and maintenance of existing roads will now be earmarked for the rehabilitation of railway infrastructure. Why not use such an amendment, which we have proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party, to try to obtain these funds from those who are also destroying our road infrastructure. Thousands of trucks, thousands of very heavy trucks drive on Slovenian road every day, almost with minimal costs instead of diverting this traffic to the railway. And it should be borne in mind that those who damage our roads, polluting the environment, of course also contribute more to the construction of railway infrastructure. At least some of the amendments that we are proposing are trying to correct in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u115	Are we voting on this amendment? There are 73 Members and Members present, for 30, for 40. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 3. As I warned you earlier, this Article 3 has been corrected, but the complete content has been added. It's not a new article, it's a new paragraph to Article 3. Anyone want a word on behalf of the Group? Mr. Victory Jelinčič the Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I don't know, Mr President, what amendment you were talking about. Intruder [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u117	I explained earlier, you probably weren't in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u118	Is this about the new Article 3? Yeah. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Contic. The new Article states that a specific dedicated item for infrastructure investment and maintenance under this Act will be drawn up at least 0.9 national income. In our parliamentary group, we will support this amendment, despite the fact that someone will be my friend. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Isn't it? Yes, and then, Mr. Kontic, you've misled me. Thank you so much, 'cause it wouldn't be the first time they've let me down, but now I'm gonna be more careful. Nevertheless, I must say that this third article, which you have now placed on my table, will also be supported by the Slovenian National Party. The point is that matters must be settled in conjunction with the European rail structure. It is therefore necessary to prepare this for discussion and in the plans for [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Look, gentlemen are laughing, I came from abroad a little earlier. Meanwhile, the confusion in the National Assembly was so great that one does not really know which amendments he can and cannot vote on.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u119	Mr. Jelinčič, may I remind you? Article 3 of the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u120	Yeah, thanks a lot, yeah, I know. I know that now. However, we will support the amendment, despite the fact that I must say that I will not receive any bribe from these positions from the construction of any railway lines. Maybe some other political party will get bribes, certainly from the coalition. We will not be in the Slovenian National Party. And despite any doubt, we will support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u121	On behalf of the Group of Members, Dr. Peter Verlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Earlier in the debate, we also listened to the Minister, how important the law is for the Republic of Slovenia, for the Government, for the Ministry, and now I find that from this moment on, the Government, the Minister of Transport, the Secretary of State, is no longer interested. At least sometimes they waited in the hall for the outcome of the vote, now of course they know that the voting machine will work further. But despite this, the law that was prepared and proposed by the government, perhaps because there is no minister in the Chamber now, was bad. Four articles, weak, even the Legal and Legislative Service had serious comments on this law. Why? Because the resources for earmarked resources determine how these resources should not be used to invest in public rail infrastructure. It refers to a resolution on the national programme for the development and modernisation of railway infrastructure, which has not yet been submitted by the Government in the National Assembly. Thus, when a similar law was introduced into the parliamentary procedure in February, you, the coalition, claimed that such a law could not be adopted because there is no resolution on the national programme for modernisation of railway infrastructure. Now that you're proposing this law, there's still no national programme, that's all right. No, it's not okay! Priority sections of railway modernisation are lacking. This is why we have prepared 16 priority sections of railway lines linking Slovenia with the international environment for the first time and also allowing for the internal connectivity of Slovenia. But I hope now that this hearing will be so strong that you will support this amendment. For otherwise you accept this law by setting out resources, how they will not be used. Although you said back at one session that the law proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party with similar content cannot be supported because there is no national programme. Duplicity. I suggest you support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u123	Thank you very much. We have ended by presenting the views of the groups in this case. In his own name, Mr. Grill, the only one.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I will be happy to support such an amendment myself, for there are indeed 16 priority sections here. I agree that it is necessary to try to rehabilitate, improve, modernise the railway infrastructure, but the money to do this whole thing in due course will not be for long, and the question is whether we will be able to wait for this to happen ourselves. However, there are certainly some of the most priority sections that would be received or needed to be updated or upgraded as soon as possible. Because this can contribute to better economic conditions for individual areas of Slovenia, and thus more pure Slovenia, because we will less pollute roads or even the environment and these things are also listed here. I'm gonna touch two of them first. The section of Črnomelj-Ljubljana via Kočev and Grosuplja. Look, if we had more modern rail infrastructure here, I am sure that the White Country would be more interesting for the economy to decide that we would also have our infrastructure or installations there. A new city, hundreds of trucks drive every day from Revoz, from Adria, from Krka from major industrial manufacturing companies, which now burdens motorways. However, if we had such a railway infrastructure, we would have decided to drive these matters through rail infrastructure. And if it were necessary here, because some people have seen that not everything is covered, our amendment can still be amended, and then the matter can be put to full effect. Thus, this amendment significantly improves the content of this law, as such a law has no practical value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u125	We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 3. The vote is under way. 76 Members and Members are present. The vote was 32. Against 42. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting on the law. 76 Members and Members are present. The vote was 71. No one. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 15th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. with questions from Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u126	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, representatives of the Government! We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - ON THE QUESTIONS OF THE POSITIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. With regard to this item on the agenda, I received written submissions from the 34th Members of Parliament in the course of business. Please be present at the hall to occupy their seats and calm down! The order of business shall be determined on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244(2), Article 245(2) and Article 247 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question, the President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is asked by several ministers, they all have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asks a question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Regarding this point, they apologized for today: Borut Miklavčič - Minister of Health and Dr Milan Pogačnik, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. You have received a review of the questions sent to you, which were not answered within the deadline of business. We are moving on to the question of the Member States. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. His question will first be raised by Miran Györek, Slovenian National Party. Please, Mr. Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u127	Thank you for saying so, President. Honourable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly, Colleagues and Colleagues! Many employers with the conduct of the country do not pay contributions to pension and disability insurance. Workers do not know that the employer does not pay contributions for them, as only these are shown or accounted for on the payment sheets. Contributions for pension and disability insurance are owned by the worker and not by the employer, but the employer does not have to tell the employees that the company has deferred the payment of the contributions. By the end of 2008, almost 100 million euros were unpaid contributions to pension and disability insurance. By the end of 2009, more than 125 million euro. In doing so, it should be stressed that this is not the whole debt, as this information does not reflect the actual situation, because it covers only those employers whose debt of unpaid contributions is more than EUR 4 000. This is about 3 000 81 companies, which employ about 53,000 workers. Under the Durs Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia exercises control over the calculation and payment of contributions to compulsory pension and disability insurance. Durs is also the body that collects, recovers and maintains the relevant records of contributions paid to individual insurers. However, the ZPIZ Assembly is the one which, on a proposal from the Management Board of the Institute, partially reflects, allows for a decision and reimbursement of compulsory insurance contributions. The non-payment of contributions to pension and disability insurance has been the most affected over the last period by workers who have decided to retire and have found that employers have not paid their contributions for a longer period of insurance. Under the current legislation, periods for which contributions for compulsory wage insurance from the worker are also considered during the pension period, even though these contributions have not been paid. It is therefore only a matter of recognition of the period in which the calculation of the contributions on the payment sheet is made, but not of recognition of those contributions in the accounts. For the calculation of the pension base, only the contributions paid shall be taken into account when the old-age pension is applied for the dose of the old-age pension. Therefore, I ask the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: In what way does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intend to solve a very pressing problem and provide workers with a social and pension security future, given the many violations by employers?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. President, the government of Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u129	Your Honor. The government will seek short- and long-term solutions to this problem. First of all, let me remind you that it is only rare among the affected workers and workers who are immediately victims of the wrong and illegal decisions of employers not to account for contributions. Actually, they're victims, really only when they're retired. These are not very many, but anyone who is a victim, I will say, whether it is illegal or reckless employment of employers, is an unjustifiable victim and the country will make sure that this problem is resolved in some first short term and then in a long-term way. First, let us look at short-term solutions. In its short-term measures, the Government will try to ensure that those workers who are now going to retire will in fact receive a pension such as would otherwise have been charged by employers. More simply, this means that this gap will be covered by the state. This is not a financial big problem, but it is a legal and conceptually large problem. Since this is such a major problem, it must also be clarified through long-term measures. As far as long-term measures are concerned, we are preparing a solution in the direction that all employees in companies that have gone bankrupt and have not been paid contributions for a certain period of time will be provided with such a situation in order to be counted as paid, as well as now all employees in the special application receive an answer from the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia as to whether these contributions have been paid to them or not. As far as long-term action is concerned, the responsible ministries are preparing the necessary legislative changes to ensure, for the first time, adequate control over non-payments and immediate action; for the second time, more appropriate criminal sanctions against non-payment of these contributions are said to avoid the negligence or illegality of employers, but will therefore also be prosecuted; for the third time, in parallel, monitoring and informing each employee of whether the employer is paying him contributions through an individual individual account and for the fourth time, possible adaptation of economic and bankruptcy legislation to prevent similar cases of non-payment of contributions without the impact of employees as we have seen them so far. I visited the tax administration recently, which informed me that it was already testing the computer possibilities that any employee or his or her employer, such as a union or other via so-called e-taxes, would be able to monitor whether individual accounts were paid or not, and by introducing personal virtual accounts, these options and regular notices would be introduced through the annual notices of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance. I would also like to inform this High Council, honourable Mr President, that changes are being made to the various forms or to the Home Registry Act, as well as amendments to certain rules defining the conditions of write-offs or suspension of payments of contributions, which will also be decided by the Constitutional Court on the judgment of Article 228 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. In short, once again, the government is solving this problem in the short term. In fact, it assumes our burden that those who go to peace at this moment are not victims of negligence or employers’ illegality and that those who go to retirement over the years will also not suffer a lower amount of pension contributions due to negligence or the illegality of the employer. However, in the long term, we need to establish conditions for employers to be monitored and sanctioned, and we have mentioned other measures. If you want us to discuss further short-term measures in more detail, I will do so or give it to you in writing. I just want to tell you that I've met with the unions myself or with the workers that are affected more than once, and I'll do it later. I understand their anger and resentment, but I would like to assure them that the country is doing its best. But that's a complicated problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u131	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. It is true that the problem arises primarily before retirement, but there is another problem here, and there are cases that are also not sanctioned when workers, for example, are not informed that contributions are not paid, they are sick and they have to see a doctor. Which, of course, their card is invalid and creates a problem. But it's just one of these. The way in which contributions are recovered, the supervision of the payment of contributions and the late interest is determined in one way or another by the Social Security Contributions Act. And because you were just talking about sanctions. 196. Article 196 of the Penal Code already provides that a penalty shall be imposed by way of a fine or imprisonment of up to one year of the person who does not pay the prescribed contributions and thus deprives the worker of the right to which he or she belongs. We all know that such a provision has never occurred before, at least in practice. The Tax Procedure Act lays down criminal provisions for the fine of EUR 1600 to EUR 25 000 for the offence of a legal person or independent entrepreneur, an individual or an individual who carries out the activity on his own, unless he submits a social security account. We already have a legal basis, but Durs and ZPIZ, who have data on unpaid contributions, do not file criminal complaints against employers, which means that Durs and ZPIZ, with unsecured debt from social contributions, have harmed state-owned and also individual citizens. Social contributions should be paid in marriage as well as taxes. It is therefore imperative to amend the legislation in force. Therefore, I also call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to change immediately, and, as I see now, you are working on it, as well as complementary laws governing the accounting and payment of social contributions, introducing effective [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Please, you want to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u133	Your Honor. Perhaps it would not be bad for the Government to submit a report prepared by the Tax Administration on my request to visit the Government to get this report under review by every Member and Member. Among other things, this problem is being addressed. The problem is that employers are already billing and there is no problem in terms of records, the problem is that they do not pay. Now, the unions have to sue, and I've asked the Justice Minister once again what's going on, and I hear they're pressing charges. As far as I can remember, I don't want to fool this high house, the workers and the unions say they're filing complaints against employers. I believe that this already enabled legislation will also impose sanctions on those who have acted against the rules. But this does not solve the problem; it does not solve the problem of people who are victims of the wrong conduct of others. We'll save you, these workers and workers have to be saved because they already have low salaries because their pensions are low. The state has decided to enter here. It's just, we always have to be careful if we work precedents, they have to be in line with the legal order, we have to change the legal order, and it's not that simple. But the workers know that even when they have talked to me about it, the amount of pensions will not be affected by the negligence or illegality of employers. In the long run, however, this problem needs to be addressed even better. And let me finish. Once again, I suggest you get an insight into the tax administration's report. There are also several proposals made by the Tax Administration in order for tax evasion to be more sanctioned in order to be a so-called tax culture in Slovenia, which is not low, we have to admit for ourselves, Slovenians are among the nations that have a high tax culture. So we're talking about the rate of taxes paid without coercion. We are not Dutch, but it is not excluded that we do not have one education when we are a country with a high tax culture. And the administration is proposing to me and the Government some measures that would be interesting, probably also for Members and Members, and you will get this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be raised by Jože Tanko, Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u135	Thank you so much for your words and a nice greeting to everyone. The National Assembly has already adopted a number of package measures in this mandate, but unemployment is on the rise, and the credit crunch is not failing. We have adopted an exit strategy, which unfortunately is not followed by implementing measures. We have a meeting where there is not a single law in the exit strategy. It will be very similar in April and also in May. Today, UMAR also published its report, which states that the crisis is already affecting the living conditions of the population, that quality of life indicators for Slovenia are deteriorating after a rather favourable period of time in the previous mandate. And it also says that in 2008 we had the lowest income inequality, the lowest proportion of households with children in whom no one worked, and the lowest proportion of young people who left school. In short, this is due to the delayed, incomplete and insufficient measures we have taken in this mandate. But the fact is that conflicts in the government are improving. Months ago, we monitored the dispute between the two ministers, the members of the anti-crisis group quarreled, the affairs in which the ministers were involved, we monitored the dispute between Minister Križanič and Secretary of State Kamnar, and we are now monitoring the dispute between you and the Finance Minister. In fact, it is clear to everyone that the Government has been dealing primarily with itself since the elections, that there is no consensus and cooperation in it, and that is why, I suppose, there are also great delays in the preparation of quality measures, which is why Slovenia is lagging behind. These are probably fundamental reasons, if there is no cooperation, we probably can't go to action either. Now I ask you, honourable Prime Minister of the Government: How many steps of the exit strategy have already been triggered in the government light, say how many green lights are on and how many red lights are on? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u136	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u137	Thank you very much. I thank the Secretary-General, he has brought me a summary of the website of the report of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development. You have only read what you thought was useful to inform the public, to have a worse opinion of this government, but not what is in this report, which could give a slightly worse picture of the government that was ahead of us. Why am I saying that? Because it's perfectly clear that trends started in the second half of 2008, but I've never bothered about what we got as an inheritance, but I've been trying to solve things, and I'm not going to be restoring the old stuff now. In short, we're the government that came from the conjuncture to the recession. Unemployment has begun to increase in the last quarter of the year in which the previous government was in power, but this is not the problem of the previous government, which I have said many times. Ladies and gentlemen, without offense, Slovenia has witnessed the global crisis in particular as a small open economy. We have never seen this crisis before. And with all the indicators of the economic and social situation, of course, we went down in the last year - who didn't go, we in some even longer than other countries. But we are also going with economic and social growth indicators this year. Is there any way to hear this? Unemployment, Minister, has anything grown in the last quarter? No, no, no. Unemployment has not increased in the last quarter, thank God or perhaps thanks to the measures taken by that government. I don't give up on the help of others, but I rely on our own actions, and I know that we're saving things better than any of us expected, not ideally, because it's not possible, but the fall of economic growth was strong last year and so it climbed in the last two quarters. We are dealing with the employment problem through the measures we have taken. Some other countries imitate Slovenia in these decisions. Ambassador Tanko, can we clear up one thing between us before I answer any further? Are you more interested in employment or coalition disputes? Because employment is a problem we manage. There's no conflict in the coalition that I can't handle. In fact, my answer to your question is brief: we are dealing with the problems of the economic and social crisis, which is still present. All that needs to be resolved in the coalition, that we are a successful government, we are doing well, we are saving as I think is right.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete Mr. Tanko's answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u139	Thank you very much, distinguished Prime Minister of the Government. I said, "How many green lights are already on in the government light, and how many red lights are there?" It's a simple question like "red book." As far as this comment is concerned, I am talking about a comparative analysis with other countries of the European Union, which means that it is a relative indicator. And here's the conclusion that we're getting relatively weaker, that is, faster than the others. Now I find that you have not answered this question properly. I would also like to remind you that we have also received today a table of Stability Pacts, which also notes that measures, this is the opinion of the European Commission adopted by the Government, are not sufficient. I would also like to point out that the key role or very important role in the implementation of the crisis measures is also played by the Ministry of Finance. There, in fact, Drago Isajlović, who is a former member of the secret service, accepts directors, regulates arrangements, negotiates with banks. And the fact is that many directors have complained about his involvement, about his activities, about his actions, about you and this particular dispute, or on the basis of this dispute, and on the basis of these complaints, you have in fact decided on a very radical request to ask the Minister to dismiss Drago Isilović or the Minister will go. Probably not just because they represent some important obstacle or because Drago Isajlović is doing some work. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] But there's probably some other stuff behind it. And I'm actually curious: When will the contract with Drag Isilovic be terminated?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u140	Thank you. Since you are a policy with experience, you must admit that it is not easy to answer all your questions that you are asking just because there are so many and you do not know which one you are really interested in. But I'm going to try to fix the flawed answer to your previous question first. The traffic light is there so that we can monitor the implementation of the exit strategy. It is short-term and it is a matter of systemic, structural reforms. So far, we have seen a deficit in the implementation of decisions accompanied by Slovenian policy, it has been able to make a huge decision and not to implement it. And in order to try to address this as the main weakness of our policy, we have also introduced a traffic light as an indicator of our success. Am I, Mr Tanko, pleased with the transition of red lights to yellow and green? No, I didn't. I'm not, because I think that some less important things work too much, including the government, instead of talking about those that are really essential to the perspective, the standard, the well-being of our people. And I don't blame you for putting these themes on the agenda, but we have to deal with them myself and the ministers more than we want. However, I must assure you that we are doing everything we can to ensure that the exit strategy is in place. Slowly but confidently things just move forward and until they come to an end, I will not be satisfied. That's what I have to tell you. Don't expect me to praise what's wrong. At this point, things should be moving faster. But you need to know that we accept things that are extremely delicate and are also the subject of social dialogue. Today, the Minister for Labour presented the pension reform, and although we have made some compromises with her, there is no general enthusiasm between employers and trade unions. As regards the European Commission's report. This concerns the Stability Pact and our stability programme. We did not then notify the European Commission of the measures, which means the exit strategy. They have estimated that our perception of this year's results is quite optimistic, given what we have written down in the programme, but we have not put together all the measures we will give. I will remove this small deficiency if the weakness is resolved when I give a translation of the exit strategy tomorrow, and as it is said, Slovenia is among the few who have prepared the exit strategy and is already starting to implement it. And I would like to say that the ambition of the government I am leading is to join that group of countries in the European zone in the European Union, which will move forward with the exit strategies as quickly as possible. In short, the lights, the greens and the yellows are less than I want, but I will work with the ministers to change these things by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, do you have a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I have asked two very trivial questions, very simple questions for the President of the Government, on which I have not received an answer. First, I asked how many green lights are already lit on the government traffic light and how many red lights are on. To this question, simple question, only 25 numbers you have written, you have not been able to answer. You also did not answer the second question when the contract with Drago Isilovic will be terminated. That's what I asked you. Everything you used in your answer has absolutely nothing to do with the question. You've been dealing with the argument that I said about this question. However, the fact is that we have two documents on the table, the real document is Dead and the report of the European Commission. The results or comments of these reports are not good for the situation in Slovenia. For the European Commission considers that Slovenia's public deficit and public debt may be higher than the target due to pre-optimistic forecasts and because costs are not and will be difficult to monitor because there is a possibility of over-expenditure. Similarly, relative indicators of quality of life - and they are also a comparative issue, compare us with Poles, say, also with others, and these relative indicators mean that the situation in the Republic of Slovenia is more rapidly deteriorating than in other comparable countries. Which means we're behind. This, however, is probably due to the situation within the government, within the coalition, because the vast majority of ministers are primarily concerned with how to put some things under the carpet, how to replace what people are doing in important and independent functions. Then, at the Ministry of Finance, a key person is a former member of the Secret Service who deals with who the director can come to talk to the minister and talks with him and so on. It is said that an external contractual associate is speaking on behalf of the Minister and on behalf of the Ministry or on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, I propose that the President-in-Office, in accordance with paragraph 2 of paragraph 264, should do so. We are voting on the Rules of Procedure to hold a debate on two very short questions that I have raised: how many green lights are already on and how many red ones are still on and when the contract with Drago Isilović at the Ministry of Finance will be terminated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u143	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Member Jožet Tank to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister to his question, the National Assembly will decide on Friday, 26 March 2010, in the framework of the vote. The question to the Prime Minister will be asked by Janez Ribič, Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u144	Thank you. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, Ministerial Assembly. The European Capital of Culture is the most important cultural project in the Republic of Slovenia. At the national level, Maribor's candidacy and partner cities were first among four applications: Ljubljana, Celje, Koper and Maribor, as the best choice of the international evaluation committee of experts, whose appointment was confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Minister of Culture. Then is the choice of Maribor and partner cities, which are Novo mesto, Ptuj, Velenje, Slovenia Gradec and Murska Sobota, 31. 5. 2007 confirmed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The government recognised the European Capital of Culture project as a project beyond local interest. In the end, the signing of the co-financing contract for the creation and implementation of the European Capital of Culture programme at the beginning of March proves that the project was recognised as a national project. The project also has a strong developmental dimension and will enable the accelerated development of Maribor and partner cities, i.e. eastern and southern Slovenia, thus helping to reduce regional development differences that are still and increasingly present in Slovenia. In the approved integrated application, a statement of the share to be provided by the State for the construction of the necessary public infrastructure in Maribor and partner cities is also provided. This share is €71.4 million. In the media, we have been able to track discussions over the past weeks and months on the difficulties in providing state resources for infrastructure projects. We are aware that the economic crisis has taken place and that the public financial situation is completely different from at the time of the adoption of the project. Therefore, we can reasonably conclude that the State has not yet been able to secure the permitted share of State resources. In this sense, I ask you, honourable Prime Minister of the Government: Are you aware of the importance of the European Capital of Culture project for the visibility and visibility of Slovenia in international space? Or how and at what level does the Government intend to provide the necessary and agreed resources for the infrastructure projects of the European Capital of Culture? Has the Government or the competent ministry prepared appropriate foundations or financial support, mechanisms that will enable the timely implementation of projects? I also want to know: How much funding has the European Capital of Culture infrastructure projects been provided to Maribor and partner cities so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u145	Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u146	Dear Member, what would the President of the Government be like if he were indifferent to the opportunities offered by this project? Of course, there are some problems associated with it, and although I do not often do so, I will make an exception here today. I must say that Minister Majda Shirca is truly committed to this project and that she is always "heavy" in the government by how we must do this and how things move forward. I have to say this because the ministers have problems with it because of its insistence on things to come true. Here I have a prepared answer that answers your questions very precisely, and let me say first that I am personally communicating with the mayors of these municipalities, that I have been in Maribor about this. Now, some numbers on these things. Therefore, in order to meet the expectations of this project, the Ministry of State made a programme allocation of €10.7 million by 2012, after the establishment of the Public Institute of Maribor 2012 - the European Capital of Culture, mandated the Minister of Culture to sign a contract with the Mayor of the Municipality of Maribor, who is the founder of the Public Institute. The government will closely monitor the use of budgetary resources and the achievement of programme objectives through its representatives in the world of the Institute and the Programme Council and pay particular attention to the provision of the necessary investment funds. The amount of necessary and agreed funds the Government intends to provide, you ask in your question, for the EPK infrastructure projects due to, as you yourself said, the crisis has changed slightly since the 2007 candidacy. After a thorough and thorough verification of the priority list of these investment projects of all six municipalities, the calculation of the costs needed is approximately EUR 30 million. The Ministry of Culture has also provided support for investments within the EPK project in the context of the implementation of cohesion policy and has therefore redistributed some of the funds previously committed. Under the operational programme to strengthen regional development potentials 2007-2013, projects of the European Capital of Culture are possible through co-financing of public cultural infrastructure and restoration of cultural monuments owned by municipalities. Projects eligible for these funds must demonstrate the readiness of the project, as we say, "ready-to-go" for the implementation and contribution of projects or the involvement of the municipality as notifiers. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has so far provided more than €20 million from the Internal Budget 4.5 million from cohesion policy funds for the purposes of investment in the ECOC. What projects are these? The Dominican Monastery and the church on Ptuj, some less than 415 thousand euros, the Maribor Landscape Museum in the Maribor Castle, some less than a million 400 thousand euros, the restoration of the minority monastery for the purpose of the Maribor Puppet Theatre, for two years total 2 million and almost 800 thousand euros. I think that in every way that is possible and legal, the Ministry of Culture and Government is doing their utmost to support, within this public institution, an activity linked to the programme and project of the European Capital of Culture and the infrastructure associated with it. And if it were a conjunctura, the government, like any other project, would invest much more or the country in infrastructure to carry out a project. As money is less today, we need to rationalise these decisions and invest slightly less, but all that is needed to implement the 2012 programme is the European Capital of Culture. So that we all work together to make this a process, because not only will there be one event that will really raise prestige and reputation not only of Styria, but of all Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Ribič? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u148	Thank you for your word. First of all, I sincerely thank Minister Maja Shirca for her concern for the European Capital of Culture. Dear Prime Minister of the Government, in your opening statement to the National Assembly on your appointment as Prime Minister of the Government, you said, among other things: "I want to continue working on the preparation of legislation for the formation of regions so that a two-thirds majority will be reached in this high house and thus the establishment of provinces as an instrument for the elimination of development imbalances." It has been almost a year and a half since this event, and there is no spirit or hearing about regionalisation by the Government. More about other measures for more coherent regional development of Slovenia. If we already had regions, then I wouldn't be asking you that today and you wouldn't have to deal with it, because this project would probably be taken over by the region. On the other hand, we have €4.2 billion of European money available in operational programmes. Since December 2008, you have been talking about your intention to change the operational programme. Why don't you do that and spend some of your money on this project? Instead, it appears, on the basis of the N+3 formula, we will not be able to drain EUR 560 million this year, leaving part of the European money untapped. Last but not least, I am sure that if the Maribor mayor were a member of any of the parties to the ruling coalition, today there would not be this issue and problem, just as the country's financial support problem has not been addressed throughout your term of office by the Municipality of Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Pahor, President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u150	I'm trying to discipline myself so I don't say what I mean. I will only say what is useful to say for the purposes of this debate. With regard to your last warning and a warning regarding the alleged bias of the government, since the mayor of Maribor is supposed to be from another political party, the government is supposed to be biased about Maribor because of this, or how? That was your comment. I have to be very squeezing to not say anything I think of this comment. As far as cohesion and other options are concerned. Clearly, money is in Europe, it is not so easy to draw on this money, but we have made progress this year from the payroll to the budget we have become the recipient, we have improved the pumping. It is not always possible to do everything we want for a particular area, somewhere we are more, somewhere less successful. We've decided on the stock exchange. However, we have not reached the desired measures within these funds. And I don't mind if the National Assembly once again discusses the effectiveness of drawing on European funds and whether it is also systemic problems, bureaucratic obstacles and other shortcomings in this system, which is registered or certified by the European Union, in order to make it easier and more efficient to draw on funds. Anything that can be done will be done to restore the infrastructure that is important for the implementation of this project. Since I have some time left and you mentioned your opinion, if you had a province, this problem the Government would not have, I would like to tell you that the Government would like to deal with this issue, even if the regions had. I think it is a project of national importance, not just a project that concerns the city of Maribor and the other five municipalities. Therefore, once again, I ask you not to talk about the political affiliation of anyone in this country to the government of referring to the biased behaviour of the people for whom it is responsible. That's absolutely impossible. I never asked any of the mayors where they came from, and I won't. But I'm trying to do what's possible. The government is aware of its responsibilities and will do so. I'll be visiting Maribor shortly and talking to the mayor. We're also on a regular basis, as far as possible, even with the other mayors. And nothing enjoys the privileges of Ljubljana's mayor. If you go ask him if he's satisfied with the government's activities regarding the capital, he'll tell you he wants more and more. We work within the opportunities we have, including for the European Capitals of Culture and for the city [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] Maribor and Styria. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Fish? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u152	Thank you. I just want to say that I didn't just say that. People at our end carry it on to me, and I said it here, too, as they bring it to me. But I would have ended up with that. Mr President, Madam Minister, I thank you for all you have done and will do for the European Capital of Culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. Fish. You have abused the commercial possibility of a procedural proposal because you should propose a procedural proposal, you are not. This is also your option, but thank you very much. [[...]] The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be posed by the Flower of Zalokar Orazem, Zares.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! The time of crisis, which is clearly not merely financial and economic, can be and will present a challenge to us as we map the way forward for further long-term development. Following the end of the neoliberalist experience, new reflections and approaches are needed to develop a development strategy. In doing so, we must not just stay with the already used models, which only build on the indicators of economic growth of gross social product and other macroeconomic indicators, which we have found harshly that they are not limitless and the only ones important for the development of the community and the happiness of the individual, because these models have led us to the crisis. A strategy needs to be drawn up that takes into account several aspects and more modern, closer to the way society operates. I am convinced that the very basis of Slovenia's long-term development must also be the relationship to natural resources, especially from land and water, food security, self-sustainable development, values of knowledge and education, as well as an increase in the quality of human relations. By applying the principles of solidarity, assistance, responsibility, creativity and even less materiality of the burdened life. Above all, we need to shake off old operating patterns and overcome the characteristics of the existing development model. If I simplify - the amount of gross social product cannot and cannot be the only indicator of development and prosperity anymore. And the new strategies should not only be written to us by macroeconomics, financiers and bankers, who have also caused the current crisis to a good extent. Dear President! The government has invited various experts to prepare the strategic baselines. This is especially interesting in the thinking of the group, which prepared a document where after the crisis, Dr. Trontel, Dr. Lučka Caifez Bogataj, Matjaž Hanžek, Dr. Gregorčičeva, Dr. Plut, Dr. Tina Stanovnik and others, showing new views on development. The second group of experts, which, at the invitation of Minister Gaspari, has drawn up a proposal for substantive starting points and the structure of the new development strategy, is moving towards fundamental structural changes based on the origins of a free market economy balanced with the modernised role of the social state to be introduced into the state of prosperity. That is why, Mr President, under the measures already taken to get out of the crisis, I am interested in: In what way do you intend to put the conclusions of the various discussions into short-term measures and in particular in the preparation of a long-term strategy for the development of Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u156	First of all, to remember later, I think we have made the right decision when we made sure that this discussion in some way starts with a non-governmental side, and that we are trying to try as little burdensome as possible with the extensions that the Government would give us, to think about things that are important for the preparation of the strategy for the development of Slovenia in the near future. So my answer to your question represents this moment my personal impression, not the government's position. We'll talk about that. I would just like to thank the group that held the meeting under the leadership of Minister Gaspari and the group that held the meeting under the leadership of Secretary of State of Školč. Both groups have demonstrated in their own way what a vision of the development of Slovenia could be and what it would be like to measure it, if we already have to have quantitative indicators of development performance, so that individual crisis resolution measures can then be put into this context. This seems to me to be a normal, logical view of how the country should behave from the recession now to the time after it, how to solve the crisis, which is not only economic, social, financial, but also moral and so on. In the inaugural speech, when you elected me, I hope, not by accident, for the President of the Government, I have said that I am aware that the question is about whether the crisis will be so wide that it will bring new paradigms to the development of civilization, particularly the Western one that we belong to. I'm not as sure today as I was that this was going to happen a year ago. I still think that the crisis will be overcome and that we will remain within the concept of development, which we have witnessed even before the crisis. Of course, there will be important changes. The financial markets, which have now been much more left to the invisible deadlines of the market, will be much more regulated, but the country will have a significantly more social function everywhere than it has had so far. Look at the reform of health care in the United States. The Republicans called Barack Obama a socialist. Of course, many things will change. The sensitivity of people to social differences has increased significantly and has become legitimate. There are much more controls in countries over the illegality and usurpation of power, not only politically but also economically. All of this will intensify, but the basic concept of development will remain the same. It may also be measured by other indicators, how we protect the environment, how we care for social well-being, and how we reduce differences. But whether we're competitive, whether we're competitive or not, I think there's still a crucial question about our development. And that's all I wanted to say in these debates. All that you've been talking about, Ambassador Zalokarev, is true, all this can and must upset our imagination when we're talking about the horizon of vision. But don't forget one thing. This world is competitive and in this world we will win as much as we will compete and succeed in this competition. Of course, we must be solidarity within ourselves, but we must also be winners within and outside. And let me use your question to say one more thing, even though you didn't ask me about it. There are 2 million of us Slovenians and people who live with us and are other ethnic roots. We have limited resources, I'll say, the most important, and that's human capital. We have to make sure, like the political elite, that we take care of one atmosphere in which we will not devour each other. But we will do our utmost not to be a policy and a society and a state of exclusion, but a policy, a society and a country of integration. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] And let us do our utmost to see that our opponent or our political opponent or someone else is responsible, and we must resolve him, and then it does not matter whether the problem is solved, solved or not. [[...]] I am not just talking about politics, but also about the economy and other things. I want to say that we need to think about how limited we are and that we need to look out for each other if we are dealing with talent, with good people, with working people, no matter what political options they come from. I wanted to take advantage of this - human capital is of the utmost importance to us and we must also look out for it in this most fundamental sense to give it the impulse to try to prove itself, not to try to disappear [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u158	Thank you very much for your answer, Madam President. I am pleased to say that in this esteemed assembly, we sometimes speak something positive and oriented toward the future. True, Slovenia has many opportunities and has many perspectives and I think that much more than we are aware of. Unfortunately, in recent times, in my opinion, irresponsible and power-driven policies have forced and created the impression that, in fact, there is no future, that everything is bad and even worse and that we are on the verge of disaster and end. Therefore, a sense of security in people, a certain perspective, and also hope for a creative and creative life is lost. But the fact is, according to the Human Development Index in Slovenia, we are in a very high 28th place in the world, that we develop, that we have natural wealth and we have great opportunities. And what I absolutely agree with you are also people who still have so many desires, there's still a lot of good, creative and human in them, which turns out to be all over again when problems, problems, disaster, distress, and so on. And it is up to us politicians, and here I agree with you to stop arguing and to open up a space not only for us politicians, but especially for those who know and can show us the way forward and to prepare a broad-based and new paradigm-based strategy. To you, Mr Pahor, it is, and to the Government, the responsibility to find and to do such work to invite truly the right people of different knowledge and to find a way together from the crisis, less politics and more professional. I didn't ask the question, but I did complement what we were thinking together.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u160	I'd like to add to some of my thoughts. First of all, if I am allowed, I refer at the same time as we are talking about your question, even one that has been raised a little earlier about people now starting to experience the crisis in their own standard. I would like to tell you that if the Slovenian government did not take the measures it has taken, this would actually be a more serious experience of the crisis. This is now a hypothetical discussion and no one will know what would happen if it were another government. I think that Slovenia is happy with this government, but I also allow the possibility that someone thinks otherwise. As far as distrust is concerned, we need to know that the lack of confidence in authority is everywhere. But listen, in one of France, where President Sarkozy loses local elections because of dissatisfaction. It is no problem that people have little less confidence in politics and institutions than in one Slovenia, where there are only two million of us. That's the point I wanted to make. We're a small country. We cannot go if someone is burned, justified and unjustifiable, to the other end of Slovenia and start a new life. We can't because it's only half an hour to our limit. What do I have to tell you? We need to create one country, where we will feel safe in this sense too, that if we think otherwise, we will do something different, even if we do something wrong, that we will be punished for it, but that we will not be disqualified and that this atmosphere will not devour us in this sense, that we will be afraid to do what we think is right and win, but we will do it and that we will expect one incentive, not criticism. If we're average, the Slovenians will be gone in the long run. If we're great, we have a chance to survive this millennium. That's clear. [[....]] [[The ad from the bench.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u161	This is no time for general discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u162	Time isn't great, it's just for those who are brave and have a vision. I'm sure of it. Clearly, the accumulated discontent, criticism, and so forth must be unleashed. I think I'm doing this as Prime Minister of the Government with the highest degree of patience. I hear things about myself that aren't right. But let them be, let them say what is necessary, the time come when this thing will settle down too, because we will be able to live with ourselves more. Madam Members, I think it is important that this Parliament has to deal with these issues more than once, and sooner or later it will be because we will come up with a strategy. This strategy will have some new value designs, that's the point of your question, some new value bases. It will be up to you to confirm them or not, the government will draw up a strategy. My wish was just to tell you that despite everything you've said, change in the world, if we don't succeed in competing with others, we can't be winners. And one of them will be the losers. I don't want it to be us.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u163	Thank you very much. With regard to the parliamentary questions raised at the previous meetings of the assembly, I note that Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič is absent and will answer Ivan Grilla's question at the next meeting of the assembly. We are moving on to questions of Members and Members. I inform you that Ambassador Alenka Jeraj has raised an oral question to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, who has informed the assembly in writing that he is not competent to answer this question and that the Minister will not answer the question mentioned under number 14 in the order in which questions are asked. Under agreement, Member Alenka Jeraj will put the question under number 33 to the Minister of Culture Majdi Shirca in the first round instead of the question mentioned under number 14. The question to the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnić, will be asked by mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u164	Thank you very much, President. I would be happy for the President of the Government to stay here, because we will move from strategies and from benevolent to concrete matters. And in Slovenia, specific problems need to be addressed. We have a lot of strategies. We need action, we need concrete measures. By 2020, the Republic of Slovenia must reach and provide 25% of renewable resources in final consumption. One of the rare concrete projects to achieve this goal is the construction of hydroelectric plants on the lower Sava, which is carried out under a special ten-year old law. Instead of the Ministry of Environment and Space, which is the authority of the Government for this project, the project has accelerated, supported, in fact, because of this ministry, the project has been fully halted. The Government and the Ministry of the Environment should, of course, be aware of the positive effects of this project, which are important not only in energy terms. It is particularly important to protect against floods, since the entire basin of the lower Sava is provided with an anti-floating embankment, protection and protection of settlements as well as agricultural areas. The project is important in a water-related sense. They are still echoing the Minister's words when he said that water is a strategic raw material that is more important than oil, and we are uncontrollablely dropping it from Slovenia instead of holding it and thus affecting the groundwater and, lastly, drinking water in the Posavia pool, which is rich in drinking water. Finally, the project is also important in the anti-crisis sense as it engages more than 200 Slovenian companies that employ more than 2 000 workers. The project, however, was completely overtaken. The Ministry of the Environment is in breach of the concession contract and the activities planned are not carried out. It is incomprehensible that the energy part of the Krško hydroelectric power plant is being built, but for almost a year it has been complicated around the construction of the accumulation pool for the same hydroelectric power plant. Half will be built - the energy part and the other half - the accumulation pool will not. There's gonna be damage every month. As the water flows past the hydroelectric power plant, half a million euros is damaged. Who will be responsible for this damage? First you ask the Minister for Environment and Space. I want to know: What is the detailed timetable for the construction of the Krško hydroelectric power plant? Why has the design of the following hydro power plants stopped? When will the State Spatial Plan for the Brežice Hydropower Plant be in the public domain? Does the Ministry of the Environment support this project? Has the Ministry of the Environment classified this project as one of its priorities?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u166	Dear Mr. President! A respected choir! Dear Mr. Ambassador Visjak! There are quite a few questions here that I will try to answer in a clear and clear way. First answer to your last question. Of course, our ministry supports such an important project, but within the means and tasks that we can perform. Maybe you'd like to freshen up history a little bit. Three scenarios were for the construction of these buildings. According to the first scenario, the end of the 2013 chain would be 2nd 2015, 3rd 2018. Somehow he announced a scenario, a medium, conclusion by 2015. Boštanj started building in December 2002 and ended in 2006. Construction is fully completed and the use of the permit will be obtained in 2010. Blanca was launched in 2005, completed in 2009. The accumulation pool is complete, the usable permit will be available in 2010. Krishka. According to the infrastructure arrangements programme for Krka from the beginning of March 2007, following a decision by the Government, the case should be closed in 2012. The implementation of water, state and local infrastructure is linked to the validation of investment documentation, mainly in the direction of providing financial resources which are expected to be clear in 2010 in April, this year. The selection phase of the contractor for four months, introduction to work in August 2010, implementation [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] 14 months, charge for experimental operation in August 2011 or October 2011. [[...]] The delay is estimated at 6 to 12 months. Priority will be given to the arrangements necessary to fill the accumulation pool. We note that the above-mentioned power plants in Bosnia and Blanca have also resulted in a wide range of reasons for the closure of the finished works, namely the implementation of demanding railway insurance, the experimental operation of the hydroelectric power plant, system failures and various other reasons. What I'm trying to say is that in these big projects, a few months' delay is, and we can see from the past and elsewhere in the world, somehow I'd say the expected thing. Now, maybe to the front, "Breaths." The conclusion is foreseen in December 2014, beginning in 2011. The updated draft VAT for the He Brežice area was delivered to us by the Ministry of Economy and the Energy Directorate on Friday, 19 March, and in electronic form on 22 March, we have just received the grounds necessary for the operation of our work. The environmental report was delivered by the concessionaire on Wednesday 17 March. So it's not about the delays with us. We started processing these materials. According to the procedures and deadlines in which we are obliged to do so, we believe that in May 2010 we will be able to complete this work, since the Ministry of Economy and the concessionaire has provided the professional basis only 22. 3. Our work so far has not been possible, not our fault. So, I reject the fact that we're stalling and causing damage. Wetlands are foreseen in January 2012 and the end of 2015. The current initiation of the VAT procedure and the acquisition of guidelines. In view of the progress of the process of placing both complex facilities in space and the provision of financing for construction, we note that it will not be possible to follow the proposed deadline plan for Brežice and Mokrice. Not so much for our fault again. Since time is up, I don't have time to continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u167	Thank you very much. You want to complete the answer mag. A viscous?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u168	Of course I'd like to allow the minister to find out. Dear Minister, it is not true that there is no delay due to your guilt, perhaps not your own, because you have been running the department for a while. In fact, since the second half of last year, this project has survived. In line with the timetable, the call for the construction of the Accumulation Pool Krška, for the selection of the contractor, by the way, is about EUR 15 million, so this is a little bit of work. And it is estimated that these works will last approximately 18 to 24 months at the accumulation pool. If it starts to build today, which we know is not even an invitation to tender at all, it is not possible that by October 2011, when the energy part will be capable of experimental operation in order to build an accumulation pool. And as a result, there will be damage. You, too, Madam Minister, have not yet made it possible to adopt Infra's business plan, and this business plan is a prerequisite for the selection of the contractor. I ask you: When will Infra's business plan be dealt with by the government so that construction can begin? Do you even know how many infrastructure arrangements need to be built in order for this project to take place in the outline? By the concessionaire, the Ministry of the Environment was addressed to the Ministry of the Environment within six months through seven letters that alert you to the problem and require answers and solutions from you. You haven't answered any of them. So there's also the Ministry's silence in correspondence with the concessionaire. Apparently, there's a violation of the concession contract. Minister, I hope you're not part of the problem and that you're here to solve your problems. For now problems are piling up, and how we will keep up with your further activities. If the part of the forecast is implemented in a timely manner, I will be a little comforted. But it's too late and I'm asking you to do an effective job.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u170	Thank you so much for trusting me. I'm still a "frozen" minister, and I'm learning, but some things tell me. And some things are slightly different from different sources. And I also know what things I can see a little by myself. But there's some kind of original sin here, and that's why there's been a misunderstanding that maybe we wouldn't be dealing with today. Perhaps you could take advantage of this opportunity from this city to ask others to help us prepare the documents more quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u171	Thank you very much. You have a procedural proposal, Mr. Mag. A viscous? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u172	Once again, when I asked for a supplement, I asked a few questions. I didn't get an answer to the question. And on the basis of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would suggest that we hold a broader debate on this answer, that the Minister will also have more time to explain everything, including what he does not want in some way. Dear Minister, I have a feeling that you have a little too much confidence in and that you rely on the opinions of some constants in this ministry. Above all, these constants, I think, are certain officials who, in the past, have been "breathing down" rather than living up to this project. Once again, Minister, this project is not only important in terms of energy, although it bears the name of the construction of the hydroelectric power plant. It is also important in the anti-floating sense. It provides flood protection for the entire Posavje, where the largest Slovenian river flows, provides a rise and an appropriate level of groundwater in the agriculturally interesting part of Slovenia and, finally, a rich supply of drinking water in Slovenia. When you said that water is a strategic raw material, please consider this project also through this strategic prism, through the water prism. Now Sava is uncontrolled through Posavije and crosses the border there near Obrež and goes to Croatia. Why? See, the project is still important for the Slovenian economy at this time of crisis. He employs many Slovenian workers who are now waiting for you to release the call for something that will be built anyway. Whoever thinks that the energy part that is being built will just build up and there will be no accumulation, then, I don't know, it's a disability project. I warn you once again, every month, it costs the country half a million euros to build the Accumulation Pool of the Krško hydroelectric power plant. This will be paid by the consumers of Slovenian electricity, this will be paid by households, this will be paid by the economists and this is the competitiveness and quality of life we discussed earlier. Dear Minister, I expect you to also personally see to it that you will also personally get acquainted with this project and actually overcome this conflict that has arisen, this dead race that has arisen and ensure that the project that has been supported by all governments so far is whether the LDS, whether the SDS or any other government, will run ahead and that the project will also have the desired effects.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u173	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Mr Andrej Visjak, that the National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space of Rok Žarnic to his question of the mission, will decide on Friday, 26 March 2010, in the framework of the vote. Breda Pecan will ask the minister of environment and space, Dr Roku Žarnić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I would like to ask Minister Rok Žarnic a question that may be complementary to my predecessor. The fact is that since last year, as President of the Committee on Environment and Space, the question has been constantly raised as to whether the use of the Water Fund in the Republic of Slovenia is in line with what the Water Fund is actually intended to serve under the Water Act. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: Does the use of resources from the Water Fund really address the most flood-prone areas in the Republic of Slovenia as a priority? How is the implementation of cohesion projects for flood management from the operational programme in Europe?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Member of Parliament, Madam Members! It really is a story for more than two minutes after five minutes. I'm very sorry that I can only say it in part. It's a continuation of the previous one. In such a short time, I had to deal with this serious issue. I have to say that I trust my colleagues until there are some very serious reasons for them to do any harm. So that's a possible answer. Slovenia has a problem with the lower Sava, but it has a number of other problems. And in Slovenia, about 5% of the country's territory is threatened by floods. Among the most important areas are Muri and Lendava, one of Drava, Celje ob Dreti, Ljubljana Southwest, Ljubljana, Ljubljana Northeast, Sava. These areas are among the most endangered. The total area is 250 square kilometres and 25% of all flood areas. By the end of 2011, we will make a map in line with the bound flood directives and further further justify this threat. In addition to the threat, there are specificities such as: establishments of economic, non-economic activities, establishments, installations where pollution can occur, cultural heritage, sensitive facilities. I can say that the anti-floating arrangements that are planned are addressed by the key flood areas of the Republic of Slovenia, but it is true that so far most of the anti-floating money has been spent right on the section, which I believe is under way to make progress towards the construction of the accumulation pools. Unfortunately, I also have to say as a builder and an expert that the accumulation pool can be part of the system, but it is very questionable whether, by definition, as well as the Court of Auditors finds, this is precisely the object that is needed as a priority for the wider flood areas, but otherwise necessary. I'm not saying it's not, I don't have anything, I'm just commenting on it as an expert. Otherwise, I wouldn't be so careful if we didn't have the Court of Auditors, which specifically points out this, and the case goes on. As I said before, I am very much in favour of the lower Sava, I would like to help, but within the resources available to us, and also in view of the needs of the other places of Slovenia. And with money, that's the way it is. The water fund is running at around EUR 25 million per year, of which EUR 13 million per year is the lower Sava, EUR 2 million for the functioning of the Institute and EUR 10 million for all other projects. In particular, we are here "short" with that part of the money that the state is supposed to give to us so that we can benefit from the structural funds. And that is possible in the background of all these problems, which we are fighting for, to have some more money so that we can draw on European funds, because otherwise there will be problems. In view of the fact that we have laws that sometimes conflict with each other, the Water Act and the law on which it is financed from flood money also, let's say, an object, we have also received warnings from the courts. I've got a lot more here, I'm afraid, but time doesn't allow it. Perhaps next week or at the next meeting, we could devote more time to this. And then I'll ask my colleagues to arm me a little more with knowledge.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u177	Thank you very much, the Minister has asked for a further reply, please, Mrs Pecanov, if you will do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u178	Thank you for the opportunity to ask me a supplementary question. At yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Environment and Space at the initiative of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, we discussed the conclusions proposed by the Committee. We made it very clear, and we also supported the views of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, so that, in other words, the initiatives to establish the Water Fund could be very different from what is actually Slovenia - from, of course, south to west - needs and expects. Not to mention that the Water Fund collects resources from resources that, after being deliberately spent, are not at all. The fact is that, for example, concession fees paid for water rights by hydroelectric power plants, already existing and over 50 years old, paid by the State and the Water Fund, are used directly for the construction of hydroelectric power plants at the lower Sava, which are not at all a matter of construction for flood prevention, but essentially for hydropower plants. That's why I'm asking, Mr. Minister: Mr. Visjak, when you said I didn't say what you were doing, I didn't bother you, so don't bother me either, please. And I ask the Minister: Has your ministry, in your time, exceeded the appropriateness of the use of the Water Fund in accordance with the Water Act's objectives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u180	Thank you very much! The use checks are ongoing and are ongoing, and part of this misunderstanding is also due to some events in the past, some years ago, when the use was not very evident for what was stated in the laws. I don't mean to say, I'm talking about what I'm reading, what the Court of Auditors wrote. However, I must only mention here that I am particularly slightly sensitive to the Court of Auditors' comments because I would not like to experience a similar fate as my predecessor. That's why I respect the courts. I can't say otherwise. And they wrote that the irregularity of defining the concept of water infrastructure when it comes to facilities intended for special use - this is the apparent of the Court of Auditors - is the definition of the construction and maintenance of buildings which are not water infrastructure, such as water management, state, local water infrastructure, flood insurance, purchase of land from the Water Fund throughout the concession area, i.e. for all facilities in the area, not only relating to floods, self-financing, the conduct of activities of the public company Infra in relation to water regulation. The ILO has therefore initiated the drafting of amendments to these rules from this point of view and will come up with proposals in a short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Eva Irgl will ask the Home Affairs Minister Katarina Kresal a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister of the Interior! We have recently seen a dangerous decline in democratic standards at all levels of society. This is a worrying situation which is not good and shows a serious social problem in the context of ensuring the protection of human rights and the postulates of the rule of law. And this dangerous trend of lowering democratic standards also includes your party's enormous desire to have as much political space as possible. Thus, it is not enough for you to have your client in charge of justice, nor is it enough for you to manage the police as Minister of the Interior. Now, according to the latest events, you want to handle the prosecution. This is just so that we can sweep under the carpet the extremely burdensome Baricevic affair for you and thus remain in the position of Minister of the Interior in spite of opposition to the public. However, after all the affairs that have occurred in the last year in public and in any way touch you personally and your customers, this will be a very difficult task for you. It is also likely that police actions carried out suspiciously to discredit political competitors should be used. In order to politicize the police for their own interests, your statement at the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy, the day after you received the name Janina Slovenka of the year, was also made by your Secretary of State, Mr Klemenčič. He said you weren't at the meeting because you're editing a classified database. Very interesting. So, Madam Secretary, I ask you the following questions: Or in the light of the foregoing, you still believe that we live in a legal country where everyone is equal before the law. Do your friends, such as Mr. Pogacar, with whom you bought the Harley Davidson wedding gift engine together, have more opportunities to get a certain job than those who don't make friends with you? I would also like to ask: Do you think that the rule of law worked well and effectively for the victim of Baričevič's dogs, Mr. Meglic, or did it simply fail in its effectiveness? And not last time, I'm interested in: Can you say with certainty that, in the context of the implementation of the works and tasks under the MNZ as Minister, you have never confused public and private interests. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u184	Thank you very much, President. Dear Member! First of all, I try to do my job professionally and properly. I would expect Members to do so in our communication with each other in the National Assembly. The questions that, in my opinion, are least, which are distasteful to me now in your question, of course, are not the questions that you have sent me in writing, so what you are asking me. You asked me how I guarantee the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the field of police work. Don't mind if I answer that later, too, given that it was your explicit question. From what you've told me in your brief introduction, you obviously don't know the state system, you don't know how the state administration works, which I'm surprised that your client's been running the government for four years. If we had known, then we would not have been able to make such nonsense so that an individual party could control a certain institution of the rule of law. If they knew that, they would probably know that the State's Attorney's Office is under the supervision of the Ministry of Justice, as well as the courts. I don't know what logic you find to be the only institution that doesn't control LDS. I don't know who's in charge of the U.S. Attorney's Office in your opinion, but you probably have these things cleared up on you. If we knew the laws governing the functioning of the state and the rule of law as such, we would probably know what the powers of the justice ministers and the ministers of the interior are to direct, supervise, ensure the legality of the prosecution, the courts of the defence, the police and so on. In view of what you said at the outset, I find that you have no sense of humor at all. If they did, they would not be quoting the obvious joke of the Secretary of State on the Committee on Home Affairs. Probably in this country, despite being a politician and dealing with very serious matters, the joke is not yet banned and you do not want to drive it out of this room. In the next moment, the Secretary of State also explained this. And if you were present on this committee, you know that, if you weren't, then you can look at the magnetogram where it says it very clearly. One of my main priorities in the work of the Minister of the Interior is respect for the law and respect for the rule of law. I myself firmly believe that the rule of law is the same for everyone. Also because it is the same for all, it must also apply to representatives of the policy, both local and non-oppositional. It must also apply to prominent representatives of other life; it must also apply to the main holders of state functions, ministers as well as to all others concerned with the legality of that country. And the supreme guardian of the rule of law in this country is, among other things, the Supreme State Prosecutor and his chairman. For me, I can say that I will always respect these principles. As far as I know my colleague, Minister Aleš Zalar, he too. And a little something about the one you're at least supposed to be interested in. We have done a great deal at the Ministry of the Interior in the last year in raising the standard of human rights. We have interrupted the long-standing philosophy of this ministry that one part of human rights must be waived for greater security. That's not what we're up against. We believe that it is not a question of freedom or security, but of freedom and security, not of selective or arbitrary use of the police force, but of equality before the law, regardless of socio-economic power or ethical belonging, that it is not about human rights or efficiency, but of efficiency in respect of human rights. We have strictly applied these principles in our work, so we have substantially strengthened the work of the Directorate for Police Control. A series of police supervision was carried out, much more than in the previous mandate. An integrated system analysis of the appeals procedures was carried out. Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of [[....]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] I'm sure we'll have time to move on in the next few minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mrs. Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have not answered my specific questions. You only partially answered that question I gave you. However, the announcement also includes sub-questions which, of course, we can raise as Members. You didn't answer them, but I expected such a general answer from you. However, with regard to the performance of the police tasks, the following must certainly be said. Under your leadership, the police have, in my opinion, been heavily politicized lately for their own interests. There is also a fact from the already mentioned Baričevič affair, which you do not want to answer to. Thanks to media coverage, information has been received on a day-to-day basis indicating that police action at the scene of a tragic event has been targeted and guided in order to cover up certain burdensome evidence. We have also been able to read in the media your statements that the police have informed you of the event within an hour and even before an investigative judge, which further raises suspicion of the independence of the police investigation. The media also reported that your life partner, Mr Miro Senica, was informed before the investigating judge and the state prosecutor. Not to mention the fact that the investigating judge's police have not even notified the circumstances that would lead to suspicion that dogs could be abused. Therefore, neither the investigating judge nor the district attorney were present at the end of the event. All these things, therefore, indicate that confidence in credibility and, above all, independence of the investigation may be increasingly shaken. That's why I'm asking you, Madam Secretary, an additional question: Can you claim with full responsibility that you have never, in any way, intervened in this affair and that you have never in any way interfered with public and private interests? [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u188	Dear Member! I believe that you are very intrigued by the Baričevič affair, you love to talk about it, and I also believe that in the interpretation that you have submitted, there will be hours and hours of reasons and opportunities to explain who is lying and who is telling the truth. On your direct question, my direct answer: No, in no way did I influence the procedures concerning this affair. You put a lot of things on the quick end that the police are supposed to do wrong. However, although it is not the topic we are talking about, I would only point out once again that the police have drawn up a report of an investigation concerning dog abuse, that they have submitted it to the Public Prosecutor's Office, which directs the investigation, and have presented it to the public on the basis of this report. According to the report, there was no one on the third, fourth, fifth, only the dog owner and his dogs. The report also said that the whole event was accompanied by Witnesses who could first -hand tell what had happened. The report also showed that dogs were not planted, and it also showed that it is not clear that they were abused. Everything that's been going on for days and days and weeks has been explained. But I believe it will be available for a few more hours to discuss this. As far as the investigative judge is concerned. Somehow I cannot get past the statement made by the District Court, in which the investigating judge is working, which would hang on the Ministry of Justice's website, that the information was such as in such cases it is envisaged to keep the investigating judge informed, that the investigating judge has decided not to go to the scene, that he has also told the police that he will inform the prosecutor. All of this is also recorded because information has been carried out through the operational-communication centre, and I think slowly these facts could really get under your skin, if not, we'll just tell them again and again that you'll remember them. Since I have previously remained human rights, I would also add that, in addition to upgrading the Directorate, we have amended laws restricting police powers, adopted a new code of police ethics, a number of seminars were for police officers, for the first time in the history of the European Court of Human Rights, Prof. Dr. Boštjan M. Zupančič, and we have significantly strengthened our cooperation with the Ombudsman and with the Information Officer. In addition, the police have opened up to the external and research public. We are open, transparent, we listen to the opinion of external experts, and above all, we listen to the opinion of external experts. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural object? Mrs. Irgle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u190	Thank you very much. First of all, I must tell the Minister that I certainly did not impose any facts, but I did impose them, as has been done in the media several times. I would like to propose an extensive debate on the Minister's response, because I believe that there is more to be said about police politicisation, which could also lead to human rights violations. Dear Minister, it is certainly not the fact that you are the first president of a coalition party to have credibility problems in public due to a mix of public and private interests. You are being repeated with Golobic syndrome. In this mandate, the public knows you, on the one hand, for receiving flattery titles and, on the other hand, for involvement in various contentious decisions that lower standards relating to the concept of the rule of law and the protection of human rights [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u191	Mrs Irgle, this has nothing to do with your proposal and the Minister can no longer respond to your new statement. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u192	I'm not saying anything new at this point, but just [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u193	Of course you do.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u194	I justify why it is necessary to talk about this subject, about the politicisation of the police, which, as a result, could lead to human rights violations. [[...]] But if you won't let me talk about it, then I'll just say the following. There have been few good results for the country this year in the area of internal affairs. The fact is, in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, we have some kind of stalemate in the area of official records, the number of deleted under your leadership has slightly increased by 7,000, suggesting the exploitation of the position to clearly acquire your party's voters. Of course, you have also been present in various contentious matters. However, I believe that there is a need to be even more careful in this situation, as it is possible for the public to make an impression quickly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u195	Mrs. Irgle, I give you a second warning. You are going completely past the topic that has been announced, and I ask you to stick to the procedural proposal, otherwise I will take your word away from you in the next. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u196	Mr President, I see that there is virtually nothing left to say in this country if we are not from the right political option. This may also require the abolition of the Attorney General's Office because she wanted to get things to the bottom of the line. I will not ask any further questions, nor will I argue any more, but I will just say that this National Assembly deserves an extended debate under Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure and that it will hold an extensive debate on the Minister of the Interior's response.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u197	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Ambassador Eve Irgl to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal to her question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide on Friday, 26 March 2010, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Radovan Žerjav will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Dr Roku Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u198	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, on Friday, 12.3.2010, at your press conference to surprise many, and especially the economists, you published a list, as you said, of the largest contaminants in Slovenia, which unfortunately have not yet received the so-called environmental permit to carry out activities in accordance with the Environmental Law and the IPPC Directive. This list contains some very important companies: Acroni, Metal Ravne, Glass Hrastnik, Zincarna Celje, Kemiplas and Nafta Petrokem, who, by the way, employ more than 5,000 people together. As you probably know, an application for an environmental authorisation had to be submitted to the Ministry by October 2006. However, the Ministry of Environment and Space should issue all of the approximately 160 applications, so many of which we have in Slovenia IPPC debtors, review and issue environmental permits by the end of 2007. I'm afraid that didn't happen. All responsibility and possible consequences for the Republic of Slovenia must be borne by the employees of the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. They cannot and must not assume this responsibility by these companies, which, in preparation for environmental consensus, have taken a major step forward in relation to the environment and have invested a great deal of money to ensure the best available technologies if you want BAT technologies. Now, the minister is putting them on a good trial, without any argument, and he's threatening to shut them down if the owners or administrations are irresponsible. This has caused these companies irreparable economic damage in this financial and economic crisis. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: What led you to take a step that caused these companies severe and irreparable harm? What are the arguments for this action? When will these companies finally receive environmental permits? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Environment and Space, Dr. Roko Žarnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members and Members, honourable Members! I am pleased that this issue is on the table today, for it allows me to clarify and clarify some of the things that are of interest to all of us. I would also like to say that I do not regret the words, but I did not condemn anyone, nor did I threaten anyone. If you go listen and look at the statement I made, it'll be clear. It is not possible to tell in advance which companies will receive environmental consent and authorisation and which companies will not. I didn't say they wouldn't get it, but they're particularly aware of it in the proceedings. Whoever gets it depends on the additional evidence and the justification on their part. These justifications must clearly show that they have met all the requirements as the findings are still ongoing. The fact is that only those in which the data in the application or the addition of the application do not clearly show that all the conditions for a positive decision are met. I won't go into the details, if you want, we can deliver to you in writing, we can have internal, whatever you want, for all these things. And let me explain a little bit more behind this. All decisions will be issued by June, as responded to by the European Court of Justice and we cannot prejudge a positive or negative outcome. However, I must say that I would most like all 5,000 workers to be able to continue working and to have services provided, and that is why their owners and management must also meet certain requirements. I don't care either that I receive daily or monthly warnings from the mayor about an object that is also on this list. Even that object, we don't say, we never said it wouldn't get permission, even though it was extremely used in the media. And now a little bit about the delays. The delays did not arise within my mandate, nor did my predecessor, nor did the previous ones become guilty of delays. The implementation of European legislation has been somewhat slower for us. I don't blame any of the ministers for that. When the applications were submitted when the time began to run, 70 areas of regulation were amended, but not by the Ministry's fault. The changes took place all the time, but most intensely in the period 2007-2008, so I said I did not blame the minister who was in my place at the time. The changes had a significant impact on the dynamics of the implementation of licences and this meant additional complementarity of applications and additional efforts for businesses, as new requirements had to be adapted. And now it's about dynamics. So far 121 permits have been issued for industrial debtors. In the mandate of this government, 59 licences for existing industrial IPPC devices were issued within 15 months and in 2006, 2007, 2008 about the same number, 62. But again, I don't blame my colleagues who were then, not their boss at the time, so we can say that it's more or less about objective causes. They've accelerated the dynamics. I'll have my license outside by June.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u202	Dear Mr. Secretary! What you've done, you shouldn't have done that you've publicly accused these companies. You simply should not have done this because these companies are operating today in tight economic circumstances. These companies must go to the bank for liquidity. Do you have any idea how such an economic company can come to the bank and apply for financial resources for development technology projects when the minister in the background threatens to shut them down? On what basis will he receive these liquidity assets? Do you realize what you've done? And one more thing, Mr. Secretary. Personally, in this society you're talking about, I've been dealing with this issue. I prepared the application myself, four files, half a metre of documentation, and the supplement was an additional file. I claim that all emissions are in line with the standards, you know that, cleaning plants have been arranged, emissions have been regulated in the air, in the ground, in the penetration and so on and so on, fugitive emissions. It was all arranged. More than €20 million has been invested by the company in obtaining environmental consent. Now, just like that, we're going to threaten to shut down the company, not be one company, something with 5,000 employees. Does that mean, what won't close the financial-economic crisis, and we'll close it ourselves? Where are we going in this country? Do we know what we're doing? I agree with what is wrong and where emissions are not in line and so on and so on, which is not acceptable to the environment, absolutely. Not just so long and over. That's not right and that's not fair.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u203	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u204	Thank you very much, but I'd like to say it again. I didn't threaten anyone. If I can say in detail, it has already happened that one of the companies in the past period has been given negative consent and then has resolved things and has received positive consent. Thus, mentioning this and encouraging greater responsiveness does not pose any threat, perhaps even assistance in obtaining credits to address these shortcomings.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Would you like a refill? Do you have a procedural proposal? Please, mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u206	I would like to discuss this response in the National Assembly in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 because I believe that a great deal of business has been done to these companies, both within Slovenia and outside Slovenia. What the Minister of the Republic of Slovenia says is not just that, this is what the business partners of these companies read. And this is definitely damaging to these companies. It's bad for them to talk to banks. These companies have investment plans, they talk to banks. In this way, we simply cannot communicate and must not allow ourselves to be accused by the media of any significant economic society in one way or another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u207	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Radovan Žerjava, that the National Assembly will hold a debate on the reply of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnic, to his question, will decide on Friday, 26 March 2010, in the framework of the vote. Franco Juri will ask a question from the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u208	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister! The investigation of the Member of the Slovenian National Party, which is taking place, has highlighted, inter alia, some controversial or unclear aspects relating to the planning of the port of Koper logistics centres in the hinterland. Following a report by the media and also some commonly known facts, the audit of the operation of Luka Koper, which was entrusted to the international audit house Price Waterhouse Coopers, did not intervene in the revision of the transactions related to the planning of the logistics centre in the Orleans Gmajna, nor did she have or should she have had the authority to make a more accurate assessment of these. So far, the interpretations, clarifications by the Ministry of Transport and the President of the Administration, Luke Koper, have not fully convinced the public. However, the outbreak of an affair with the sale of land on the Orleška hmajna or the purchase of land by Luka Koper reveals the dispute or at least the alleged dispute in the implementation of the plans for those logistics centres. I therefore ask the competent minister: In view of the decisions taken by the supervisors, the auditors were also not given the appropriate powers to give a thorough overview of the planning of these logistics centres. It is a logistics centre in the back of Luka Koper, both in Crassus and the farthest. What were the reasons why supervisors did not also confirm the introduction of the audit procedure for this planning of logistics centres? When, if so, will the audit take place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Please, Minister of Transport, Dr. Patrick Vlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u210	Thank you, Your Honor! Remember, a little after we took responsibility for leading the government and I of this ministry, there was a lot of information in the public about the fact that Luke Koper's business over the past four years was meant to be such that it would be good for him to be subject to a special audit. As the owner, as the owner's representative in the government, I suggested that the Assembly, with a special review of the business review, as the law requires, for all transactions, for five years back, and especially then we listed the taxi fee, if the memory does not deceive me, I think it was about 12 indents, I'm sorry if I don't remember at this point all of which were also frozen terminals. I'm sure the Eagle family was explicitly listed as a business. Since then, the Assembly has been confirmed by our second auditor, Price Waterhouse Coopers, as you have rightly stated, because doubts have arisen in the first proposed auditor. Since then, we as the owner are not directly involved in the audit itself. Therefore, this question may come two days early, for as the owner of the congregation, we can ask these questions that you are now asking on Friday. I'd like to know the answers to the questions you're asking. We, as the owner, have listed very clearly and taxively according to the indents of the transactions to be reviewed. Whether all these transactions are in the final report or not, this moment is publicly known that everyone is not, and I, like you, very much want to know why it is not there and I expect these answers on Friday. And believe only one thing that is in my interest, as the owner's interest, that it will be very transparent and clear that all the businesses that we want as owners will be reviewed, that they will actually be reviewed. However, if you are asking about the last terminals themselves, as an expert question, then I can only say that the planning of the rear terminals is the usual practice in operating ports, that Rotterdam has them, that Hamburg has them, that Antwerp has them, that Trieste has them, that Venice has them, and that many in Slovenia may not technically agree with the last terminals, and that is a perfectly legitimate disagreement, but today it is in the supply chain a normal way of doing business. However, as for the specific rear terminals, how the purchase of land has taken place, who has decided on it, who has taken decisions and so on, and I also want an answer to these questions. As I say, on Friday there is a congregation, and on Friday we, as owners, will require many clarifications, and we look forward to them as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u212	I thank the Minister for that answer. He himself knows that from the very beginning of this government's mandate I have been among the most vocal advocates of the audit and the full transparency of Luke Koper's business as a predominantly state-owned economy. We'll all be interested until Friday. It will be interesting to know where the opportunity for the audit to actually find something that, unfortunately, has only been found by a criminal investigation. And this void in the audit, where we all expected it to give us some concrete answers, raises quite a few questions. Today, we read in the press that brave business has also taken place in relation to TTI and other projects of logistics centres in the hinterland. I'm interested, Mr. Secretary: If any concrete responsibility is also established, will you take action at the political level?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u214	Thank you very much. The answer is short: Yes. On the other hand, I have now received once again the transactions we have proposed in the first assembly, and allow me to read: checking the management of the company's business over the last five years, all business in the last five years, as provided for by the Company Act, with a focus on business related to the sale of all capital investments, the construction of a new business building, the purchase and demolition of warehouses at the passenger terminal in Koper, the purchase of real estate in the BTC and the Eagle Valley area in Sezana, business with Premik - Net, Grafist and Bril with the production of project documentation to cover the bulk of the cargo terminal, the purchase of a business share in the Slovak company TT Invest, the establishment and lending of all newly created companies during this period, the purpose of purchasing the coastal lifts for the extension of the first pier, the purchase of the business shareholding of the company's assets. I think that at the time we have gathered together everything that might have been at stake, and I expect the auditor's answers to what we asked at the time as the owner.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u215	Thank you. Mr Branko Marinič will ask the Minister of Transport Mr Vlačič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u216	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, hello to everyone. Dear Minister of Transport! A few words have already been said in this Parliament on the subject of railways, and my question today on Slovenian railways should also be my question. Slovenia is threatening to stop cohesion funds due to non-compliance with European rail legislation. You discussed this with the European Commissioner for Transport on 16 March this year. The latter said that he would treat all countries equally and fairly in the process of violating legislation in this area. So it's 21 countries. Of course, among these 21 countries Slovenia is probably among those smaller, if not smaller. And we could take Slovenia right away. They probably don't have much for the big ones. I would like to ask: What is the specific breach of Slovenia's failure to respect rail legislation? I also wonder: How much money is this? This is because it refers to a fairly high amount. This means a lot for Slovenia, 440 million euros. I would also like to ask: What activities are you taking in your ministry so that cohesion funds will not be stopped? So these are important things that would now be dealt with as a matter of priority and in the current situation, so I am sure that you will also respond specifically to my specific questions so that Parliament will have clear answers to the questions raised. This is about, I reiterate, important things and therefore I also expect concrete answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u217	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u218	Thank you, Chairman. First of all, allow me to express once again the satisfaction and great joy of such support for the law, because I think it is really important and will significantly improve investment in rail infrastructure in the coming years. What the National Assembly has adopted today seems to me to be a historic event. As part of the implementation of the first rail package, Slovenia is reported in the transposition of the infringement directives in the following areas: independence of essential functions is the first thing. The Commission considers that, despite the formal transfer of the decision on charging of infrastructure charges to our public transport agency, the operator is still very involved in this process, through the preparation of timetables, without the implementation of protective measures to ensure that parts of the company involved in the essential functions are independent of the parts carrying out other activities of the Slovenian Railways, read the carrier. The measure in this area will be that this part of the railway infrastructure manager by amending the legislation, either by complete separation or by organising the holding form, however, is being answered in those days, exempt from the company and thus remove what the European Commission says on this particular issue. The second observation is the charging of rail access charges. According to the Commission, there are no provisions in Slovenian legislation for the implementation of the Articles of the Directive relating to initiatives to reduce infrastructure managers' costs of providing infrastructure and the level of access benefits. The measure implementing the incentives is closely linked to the resolution of the separation of the infrastructure manager from the carrier. In particular, the objective of the incentive rules is to reflect part of the savings made as a result of the more rational management and use of infrastructure in the lower use. This will also be regulated by organisation. The amendments to the Rail Transport Act will therefore provide an opportunity to provide incentives as well as a basis for integrating these incentives into multi-annual infrastructure maintenance contracts. In the opinion of the Commission, Slovenian legislation does not contain provisions to encourage infrastructure operators and managers to reduce disruptions and improve the quality of the operation of the railway network by means of an appropriate implementation plan. Action: A provision will be introduced in the sectoral legislation to regulate the introduction of efficiency schemes to the infrastructure manager. However, the methodology itself will be laid down in a sub-legislative act which will be published as soon as a regulation or amended law is prepared. Then there is the utility set here at the level of the border costs. The Commission considers that the utility charged for public rail infrastructure exceeds the costs incurred directly in the operation of the rail service. Thus, the method used by the Slovenian charging authority does not meet the requirements of the Directive, by which the use for access by track must be equal to the costs incurred directly in the performance of the service. You may recall that our use is calculated in a similar way to road or toll. We are preparing a methodology that will address irregularities in this area and will be in line with European legislation. The regulatory authority shall make the following statement. In Slovenia, the Ministry of Transport or part of the Ministry of Transport is responsible for the independence of the regulatory authority. In short, the measure will be taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take a decision on the transfer of the sector to serve as a regulator from our Ministry to the Postal and Electronic Communications Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, which is also a regulator. However, the reason is very simple: it is not now that we want to create one body that needs to get the director back and the secretary and the human resources service and the legal service, and the financial service, but that we simply combine the two bodies more rationally. It will, of course, act entirely independently and use the services of the director of this agency.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u219	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u220	Thank you for those partial answers. I must say that I have expected a very concrete timetable for the adoption of appropriate legislation, which is, in fact, evident by the European Commission, which is very closely monitoring developments in the implementation of legislation on railways. And here, for some time now, the European Commission has been drawing attention to this disregard and to the implementation of European rail legislation. I think it's been since last year since October when it was the first reminder. If, of course, the ministry does not define this in a future plan, which must be very early, very fast, then I fear that the matter could also reach the European Court, and then the problem will probably be a little more difficult, at least as far as Slovenia is concerned. It is well known and here we do not have to wait much to see that by joining the railways of Slovenia into the EU public access to the railway infrastructure of anyone and here the utility should be precisely defined, from what the European Commission has seen, that we are too small or that there is not enough separate agency to collect it, it seems to me that action should be taken here immediately and that a clear response will be given to when this legislation will be adopted as part of the road map, that Slovenia would not really lose 440 million euros. What does that mean, of course, is another question. However, it probably means stopping a developmental step announced by the Ministry when it comes to the beginning of the construction of the second track between Kopro-Divača and some other.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u221	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u222	Dear Member, if you asked me about the timers in question, I would prepare them. Since you asked me what the infringements were and what the measures were, I answered you accordingly. We will make sure that we do everything in time, and we have also responded to the official reminder. This interview with the Commissioner was also intended to discuss these issues, which are part of the official reminders. And our conversation was very good. And believe me, I will be very, very closely monitoring that Slovenia will not be able to obtain a stopover. However, that danger exists in all 21st, it is a serious danger. We will do our utmost to meet the requirements of the European Commission as soon as possible in order to remove this danger in order to stop these funds. In one country they have already stopped, otherwise there has been a withdrawal of the stop, it was Slovakia, but I am aware of this and we are doing everything we can to sort these things out as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u223	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Marinic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u224	Given the important content, this is not about politicisation, it is not about collecting political points, but it is a very serious matter, so I propose that the National Assembly on the content of this Minister's reply to my question of the matter be held in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Let me get this straight. With all that the Minister has said there are many things left open, in these minutes, which we have given, both me and the Member and you and the Minister alike, we have too little time to face some important things that are also promising in the field of railways in the future. I sincerely wish, probably the Government, to take an important step in the development of railways in all respects, both in the field of infrastructure and in the provision of services. Since the content of this question of my mission is, not least, whether the Slovenian Railways will be in the future, if they develop or if the funds are cut off, they can successfully dine on the transport services market of the national railway carrier. This is a very serious question, it is a matter of Slovenian national interest and, last but not least, it is Slovenia as one that is entangled on the important path of the fifth and tenth transport corridor. In view of the fact that an external institution is also preparing to help guide the strategic direction of railways and, last but not least, the Ministry, so that railways can come to some national modern carrier who could provide their services, such as the Swiss, our neighbours Austrians, Germans, and Italian railways, but it would not be right to take sides with those European countries that were either in a hurry to change legislation or waited and were then compressed into an angle and brought into bankruptcy today. Let's just see what happened to Romanian railways and to any other in Eastern Europe. I therefore propose, as I have said, that the contents of this reply should be addressed in a broader way on the issue to which this question was also addressed.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u225	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Marinič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Transport to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide on Friday, 26 March 2010, in the framework of the vote. Mr Zvonko Lah will now ask the Minister of Economy Dr Lahovnik a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u226	Nicely greeted! Mr. Secretary. I'd like to ask you a question about economic centres. The resolution established nine economic centres in Slovenia in 2007. Each economic centre should have an incubator, a technology park, a logistics centre and also a business zone. Certain criteria of national importance have been laid down, regional importance and specific projects have also been launched with the help of municipalities and the economy itself. We are now in 2010, the economic situation has deteriorated, certain projects, including such an extent of national importance, have remained in preparation for certain situations, the economy has gone to sleep and there has been some economic damage because the projects will not continue. It is clear to me that the situation was different from that of 2008 when a feasibility study of these projects was carried out. And this study was co-financed by the Ministry. Now the situation is different, companies or regional development agencies cannot repeat the feasibility study, which would be necessary in the light of the economic situation. A public call for the submission of certain projects has been issued by your Ministry. There were 42 projects, the expected co-financing of about a billion euros. There's 180 million. However, I believe that of these 42 projects, some I know, some are far or most of them from feasibility to 2015, as predicted here. There's a lot of pious desires or desires in particular economic centres or areas, and I'm afraid it won't be the right approach. I want to know: When will the call for these projects be made? What will actually be financed, because certain conditions have already been in the pre-notification, but now after two meetings with you at the Ministry this is changing. Whether projects from economic centres will be taken into account exclusively, or whether the combination, logistics centre and economic or business zones will also be taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u227	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Dear Member, Tinker Bell! Actually, I have to say that I kind of agree with you. Many of the projects put on paper are the question of what is the real feasibility. That is why, at the Ministry of the Economy, we made this public call, with which we wanted to check which projects are ready, so to speak, we would say, "ready to go", which are those on paper that actually look good, but do not have the right permissions or perhaps not the economic interest behind them. What I want to point out is the fact that the very establishment of so-called economic centres will be linked to public calls and programmes, in fact, by more ministries and government services than was intended. Furthermore, if I now focus on those which the Ministry of Economy has, it is important to stress that these projects are linked to state aid schemes. This means that the call itself will mean that the State will provide a proportionate share of the funds from its own participation and from the European Structural Funds, i.e. between 30% and 50%, depending on whether it is a large, medium or small undertaking, but not a whole share. And once the project is announced, of course, it will be seen whether there is also an interest in private capital, which will have to contribute between 50% and 70% of the funds, in exceptional cases even less if the purpose of co-financing development projects is to do so. But, of course, the key is that there is a private interest. What I have to say now, as I said, is the amount of co-financing depends on the eligible costs and the size of the company, in accordance with the European directives. In doing so, it is correct to point out that the resolution itself on these national development projects for the period 2007-2023 provided for 40% co-financing precisely because of the limitation of the amount of public funds, and this was actually good. Any higher percentage of co-financing of projects means that fewer projects are finally approved. It should be pointed out, however, that private capital participation is the real test that the project is somehow also market-interesting. I must say, among the existing projects, which were somehow written down, were thought to be the longest two. One is the Phoenix project and the other is the Inprime project. The projects shall be implemented up to this point, as intended. In this area, of course, the Ministry of Economy has also carried out all the activities envisaged up to this point. Among the other centres, however, it must be said that they were in very different stages of development. That is exactly what the public call was made to actually see how far they are with individual projects. I must say that this call, which we will carry out, and I must say that it is planned for the end of May, but certainly before the summer, somewhere in late May, is due to amend the operational programmes that the Government is preparing and one question has already been raised in this regard. The call will be open horizontally to all content and projects corresponding to the purpose and objectives of the call for proposals and will, of course, promote the integration of content and infrastructure and the integration of various investment operators. It's called municipalities, businesses and then countries. I think you asked about the hand. We're counting on it somewhere in late May. With regard to the question whether the combination of the logistics centre and business zones will also be taken into account, as I said, the call will, in principle, be open, horizontal. What will be crucial here is, as I said, what is the real interest of the economy, that an investment is also co-financed. We'll see here very quickly, too, depending on the response. One is what you have correctly identified, what billions of euros say at the origin, expected co-financing, and the other is in practice how much of the investment interest of private investors is actually.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u229	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go, Mr. Lach.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u230	Thank you. I'd like to make a little more specific. Southeastern Slovenia. We found somewhere in 2008 that the economy would need about 20 hectares of logistics if we counted on Revoz, TPV, Krk and other companies. However, there was no suitable location for the New Town logistics centre at the very beginning. Then we went to the 20-acre project and filled it in a few months. We got interest for another 30 hectares at the time, in writing, and went into the expansion of another 63 hectares. With railways, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] At the end of the motorway, all the projects were coordinated as regards the integration with highways, transport infrastructures, municipal infrastructures and filled with 20 hectares and a complex centre of 83 hectares. [[...]] From the start, we have to drive all the infrastructure for the whole. And it's all on the cracks of these first investors. Now these investors are in a dilemma as to how to proceed. The project has to go on, and investors have already spent quite a few resources, but we cannot partially resolve the full scale. Therefore, these investors would need as soon as possible information on what conditions they should be able to help co-finance at least the transport infrastructure that is being built for the whole. Otherwise, the Ministry of Transport said that logistics is the future, a logistics platform, but [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] There's been a little something going on in this area. [[...]] You can't do one without the other. Can't be a complete logistics center on these investors' "pull" right now. [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u231	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u232	I find it difficult to comment on this particular case because I do not know the details. However, it has certainly been the intention of the public call that all those who have notified have also received the relevant information and there are also discussions at the Ministry of the Economy and that the framework conditions for the tender are also explained to all. This was precisely the intention - that they could also better apply to this invitation to tender. In particular, there is a great deal of this interest and I find it difficult to comment in more detail on this particular case.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u233	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Jarnić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Dr. Roko Žarnic. I believe that, within a short period of time, you have already been able to understand that at the time of the adoption of the law on denationalisation and housing law, the work of the holders of housing rights was impossible to buy the apartment in which they lived until then. Despite some efforts and partial solutions, no government and a coalition of discriminatory positions has yet recognised and fully rectified them. Almost all decisions of the National Assembly, the Constitutional Court and the case-law, as well as the competent ministry and bodies in the municipalities, were generally taken to their detriment. It is still a group of citizens whose state has not provided them with an equal position in the privatisation of dwellings. Even today, there are few groups of Members, parties and Members of Parliament who know this discrimination and advocate solutions. For the benefit of tenants, the Association of Tenants is also organised. In Slovenia, as a rule, it is not successful. They are more successful before the European authorities. This year, the European Social Rights Committee of the Council of Europe officially concluded that tenants in denationalised apartments are deprived of the right to housing, to the protection of the family and that they are discriminated against. He called on the competent authorities in Slovenia to immediately regulate the position of tenants in denationalised apartments. I will not comment on the reaction of the officials of your ministry to this call, because in this case he might even be rude and perhaps even grave. They immediately rejected any obligation to act by reference to judicial practice, particularly the decisions of the Constitutional Court, while noting that the case law follows the content of the law and that the content of the law is the sole responsibility of the housing department of the Ministry. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: Will your ministry more thoroughly and objectively analyse the warnings of the Council of Europe? Can we expect to initiate procedures that will finally open up the possibility of eliminating discrimination that is now facing tenants in denationalized and domestic housing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u235	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u236	Dear President, honourable Member! Dear Members and Members! Thank you for asking. I took a little look at how this matter was in the house, and I was told that these findings of the European Social Rights Committee at the Council of Europe would take this very seriously. Perhaps this is also an incentive for you to act more quickly and seriously in my ministry. If it is a question, then there is a greater will for action. The judicial material already mentioned, as well as the case law, may be different from the decision you yourself said. Maybe it's just, not so much an apology, but information that things were just getting rid of things. After that law, some 4,700 apartments were rated, which were denationalized. And in view of the country's efforts, the possibility of favourable loans and compensation has benefited 2,720 tenants. The country has so far provided €25.6 million for these incentives. That's a bad comfort for the other two grand. It is likely that then, in response to this European provision, the matter will move faster. And there's something else you can say. That tenants in denationalised apartments have a secure stay, in a rather favourable position of non-profit rent and for an indefinite period. Things aren't solved, but it's not all very black. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u237	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The answer is kind and I have no reason not to believe that the Ministry or, above all, under your role and guidance will find the right solutions. However, given that I sent you two written e-mails a few days ago, I would ask you if you had already received them. This is a complement to the housing law regarding tenants in denationalised apartments and in residential housing. I sent them in writing because the oral question was limited to a short period of time and I wanted to give more opportunities to prepare. If possible, please provide an additional reply: Have you received these initiatives, or have you already looked at them, or have you given at least a mandate to look at them in professional circles in your ministry? Can we expect to meet with interested ones in a short time and see if the solutions proposed are possible to further address these issues? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u239	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u240	Thank you very much for the supplementary question. These initiatives have come, we've looked at them, I've given them to my colleagues who are working on this to look at things. They are aware that the law must be opened and amended or rewritten completely, which is a little worse. Certainly, with these additions or amendments to the law, these initiatives will be welcome, and we are also ready to meet and talk about our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u241	Thank you, Mrs Alenka Jeraj, will ask Mrs Širci's Minister of Culture a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u242	Thank you for your word. Good day, everyone. In June 2009, a plan was drawn up for the arrangement of Spice in Ljubljana. And since it is known that more is likely to be hidden in the land, experimental research has been carried out. When the construction began, i.e. the arrangement of Spica, experts actually came to a world discovery, they could say, the discovery of a colloquial settlement where they found organic remains, remains of stakes and rubble, boned and stone period from the late copper age. The head of excavations coming from the city museum and galleries of Ljubljana, Mrs Šinkovec, says that the results are temporary, as only a small part of the terrain is open. Because organic materials are found at the bottom of the earth that quickly decay if taken from the ground, there is a very strict way of protecting them. As a result, excavations in narrow strips take place, and the depths of excavations are adapted all the time. Notwithstanding the fact that the city museum is, as such, competent to dig up in this area and all that is, of course, connected with it, I believe that it is a matter of national importance and that it is in the interest of not only the city of Ljubljana, but it is in the interests of the whole country. Let me remind you that the process of classifying the fields on Unesc's World Heritage List is under way, and that is why this is all the more important. The head of excavations and some experts, who are mainly from the city of Ljubljana or tied to Ljubljana, advocate to keep as much material as possible in the country, because this is the only way to preserve it. That is why, according to the discovery, designers adapt to the realization and their goal, Mrs Šinkovcheva says, otherwise they will study everything, but they will then keep as much material as possible in the ground and then put it back in place so that the matter does not fail. I come from an area where quite a few hives have already been found, as well as the remains of this period. Most of the findings are actually destroyed because they are not stored in suitable premises and in a suitable manner. By the way, that's how the wood goes down, which is still at the National Museum and we represent it as such. And that's definitely happening because years and decades ago we didn't know how to keep these findings from going to waste. So I ask you: Do you realize what an important finding is or what you will do to protect and secure the found cradle settlement in Spica?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u243	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u244	Your Honor. In your fairly familiar question, you can see that you have been thoroughly familiar with the problem, there are many questions that, of course, do not have all the answers. The question of archaeology is especially when things are discovered, complicated and also puts experts repeatedly ahead of problems, what is now going on with all this. And here are the doctrines, and not only in Slovenia, but also abroad, very different and moving in search of answers, whether we keep and sit or keep in the museum and put in some other place or in some other way, in the form of park or other designations. I can see that the experts who surprised them, thank God, with extraordinary discoveries, surprised the findings of the former settlement, where the ranges were preserved mainly in wooden and other forms, because when we talk about pottery and some remains, etc., nothing new, after all, other findings were presented in the National Museum, but yet, these are remarkable, in addition to that famous Baranja bike that spans 5,000 years before our count and is currently at the restaurant in Germany and will be completed there by 2012, which is just the fact that the restoration of some specific articles is carried out abroad and is an extremely delicate intervention in these fragile materials. I am not surprised by the problems that archaeologists and experts face when they have to answer what is happening now. One very famous example is currently in Cyprus, when it comes to whether to preserve this pool or this water area they found and situ, that is to say in place, whether to hide it or not. Many of the problems go to the point of preservation and satisfaction, so it is not necessarily that what is taken out and carried out elsewhere is safe. Sometimes it can be dangerous, because when you do not know how to contact the air and other climate conditions, material can be damaged and can actually be more dangerous when you take it out of the ground than if you put it back in the light of the possibility that, once in the future, more secure security systems can appear, but of course very expensive security systems. So I understand, once again, the pressures of archaeologists, who I believe have been enthusiastically surprised by these excavations, this wood, which they are now afraid of, that if we put it out, if we were talking about the trams of buildings that were on these prams, on Barja or on Spike, it might happen that if they were not protected enough, they would be properly stacked up, not only robbed, but could also quickly destroy, because the lack of air and all the factors that affect the environment would feed these objects. The archaeologists themselves, right next to Spica and Ljubljanica, know that there are several interventions in the management of the coast of Ljubljana that have already explained to me in the past that the deterioration of findings, items stored, is significantly greater than ever since the impact of poor conditions on bad air is so great that it is known for almost years or months that they no longer have such a permanent period. On your question, how forward is thesis and situ going to get certain things into the museum, which is being investigated in previous archaeological studies.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u245	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u246	I agree with that, but once the thing is open, at least this proves the present findings when the matter is exposed to the environment and the air, then it actually starts to collapse, and therefore there is little left of the trees and prehistoric or ancient ships that have already been found. Modern archaeology is somehow more in favour of maintaining the find and situ, so in the place where it was found, we can, in fact, not only at the city museum, but at the National Museum, we can practically show something other than the city of Ljubljana and Slovenia. However, a number of important steps have been taken since we found these first findings and have also failed since then. And I wonder if you know the project of two world-format architects that we could read about in one of the daily newspapers, architect Milan Kovac and Peter Kerševan, who have prepared a project of underground presentation and protection of the cradle, which would be without technical problems, because they master it, and they do so all over the world, it was possible to maintain a stable climate that would also preserve the findings. They are carriers, they have developed a system for the protection of such findings, and this system has been used by us, say, the Holy Jury at Slovenj Gradc, in Legne near Slovenj Gradc, and they have worked a lot abroad, especially in India, China and are still considered a global format, so I think, instead of maybe Slovenia having any chance to put again on a world map, as it was 150 years ago when Dežman discovered the grounds, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] would be innovative and would listen to it, so I would suggest that you could organise some expert advice and look at the matter a little bit wider, not just from the point of view of Ljubljana. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u247	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u248	I am pleased that you have raised a question that is not even so familiar in the public and has a remarkable range and is actually within every inch of Slovenian land. Archaeology, which is also regulated by this law, which has already experienced a lot of violent reactions, however. Since in the past it has devoted itself more or less to exploring the archaeological sites that were connected to Dars, on the highway, and these have been well paid, well researched, and on the enthusiasts and others most famous in the New City, where each year a decent footing at the foot of the ground is discovered, they take out what is necessary and leave the other in. If we now ask what is right, whether these two architects are mentioned, whose projects I know after the testimony and also after the references, and are also accepted in the section with a certain scepticism or with extraordinary praises, if archaeologists ask what is right, it would be just like in politics when we ask ourselves sometimes what is right. Different positions are also due to the development of professions, including doctrines, schools and, above all, different territories. For example, land for NUK, which has been researched for so many years, but also there, re-defined objects have been preserved in the earth, with the aim of presenting some of them in situ, is said to have been placed in the view of only a new house and will probably be presented with certain glass cases and receptions. In Cele, for example, the entire underground was shown in a very beautiful museum, a commendable view and sightseeing. I'm going to find it hard to say whether these authors approached correctly when they said they'd cover it with a bell, let's say they made these heaps covered in a museum. I have seen or observed that the city of Ljubljana or the mayor has accepted them with appropriate professional services and that this project has even been positively adopted. The question of what does that mean in reality, financially and so on. And the question whether other ZVKDS professional services, the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage within the Conservatory Services, have given a second position or other views, which still move in variant and situ, in particular or in any other way. I believe time will bring the right answers. But it's hard to tell you which expert is the most professional in this case. In the Chinese, however, it is much easier when these two worked because the surface is much more and less divisive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u249	Thank you. Mr Marjan Bezjak will ask the Member of the Transport Minister Dr Vlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u250	Thank you. Nicely greeted. Honourable Minister, Ministers, Members and Members of Parliament. Mr. Patrick Vlacic would like to ask the Minister of Transport a question. The construction of the highway, such as the construction of the Pomur highway, caused many injuries on regional and local roads. Some of these injuries are so severe that roads are virtually non-transportable. Thus, more than a year and a half have passed since the transfer of the Moorish motorway to the market, and the injuries have not yet been remedied. On the basis of the above, I ask you: When will the rehabilitation of these roads finally take place in Slovenia, in fact with regard to the ferry highway? People have already suffered a lot of damage when this highway was placed in the highway construction program.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u251	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u252	Thank you. Dear Member. For damage to public roads resulting partly from the transport of material by construction vehicles, it is envisaged to establish measures and share recovery costs between DRSC, this is our direction, and the construction investor Darsom, in accordance with the methodology for determining the necessary measures and sharing costs due to the increased volume of construction freight vehicles on state roads produced by Omega Consult d.o.o. in 2008. In the area of the construction of the Pomur highway, sections I will read to you according to this methodology: G2: Petišovci-Lendava, R1: Rogoznica-Senarska, R2: Senarska-Lenart, R2: Dobrovnik-Renkovci, R2: Renkovci-Beltinci, R2: Bratonci-Križevci, R2: Videm-Senarska, R1: Križevci-Ljutomer, R2: Dobrovnik-rondo Long Vas, R3: Renkovci-Črenšovci, R1: Vučja va-Križevci, R1: Crossevci and so on R2: Ptuj-Rogoznica. The current legs of the lower part were also dealt with in the same way as for the pomurski leg. The timescale of the rehabilitation of the damaged state road depends on the budget of the public road manager and the assets of the investor who builds the motorway, that is, our Dars. In this year's development and renewal plan, the highway adopted by the Government and sent to the National Assembly has not yet been considered in the National Assembly, is intended to rehabilitate state roads, which is to co-finance the measures required by the increased volume of construction trucks on state roads, a share of EUR 5.6 million in Dars. In accordance with that methodology, agreements were also prepared for the sections under consideration on the rehabilitation of damaged roads between the public road manager and the road construction investor during the signing phase. Following the signing of the agreements and the funding provided, it will be possible to set a date for the start of road rehabilitation. Local roads damaged by the construction of highways are obliged by the contractor after completion of construction to repair, repair damage and establish on the local road infrastructure the situation as it was before the beginning of the work. To this end, agreements have also been concluded between the municipality and the contractors and a co-signatory of these agreements is Dars. Dars informed us that the contractor had repeatedly been asked in writing to approach the rehabilitation of the local roads he had damaged during the construction. In order to fulfil these obligations, Dars, as a contracting authority, has the possibility to cash in a bank guarantee for the good performance of works and works to the third party if the obligations are not met. Sanitation is expected to begin in the spring months when the weather allows for the performance of these works.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u253	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u254	Thank you. Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. But in spite of everything, they don't seem to hold. There are certain things that are being repaired, but many things are not being cured and are not being resolved. Here I have a series of photographs, including evidence where SCT, which was said many times before, that these roads were actually destroyed before the highway was built. And these are actually evidence with the trucks of these SCT operators. In a year and a half, there were no repairs to these roads. In fact, €5.6 million has been invested for recovery, as you have just given. I do not know in which area the SCT or the contractors of this construction of motorways are actually recovering and operating. I am very happy that the SCT has actually acquired new jobs that we read in the paper these days, but I don't know if it's going to "escape" and leave Slovenia, these failed roads that have been untransportable to citizens and citizens and gone to foreign markets? When are you going to cash in, like you said, this bank guarantee? Is SCT actually going to be a Dars institution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u255	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u256	Thank you. I will take your warnings very seriously for a simple reason, because the fact that highways are built and then state roads are left in bad condition is unacceptable to me as Minister of Transport. Thus, we will approach very close control of how this is going, and I will be happy if we come together in a few months to find out that things are going in the right direction. But if not, we will take the necessary action to do so.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u257	Thank you. Mr. Bezjak, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u258	Thank you. As I have said, in fact, in great honor, we will be pleased if, in fact, citizens and citizens are satisfied with this rehabilitation and we can work together and actually comb the unfinished work and come to a solution. Nevertheless, I would like this part to be dealt with in the National Assembly, which allows for a second paragraph of Article 246, to be discussed in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u259	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Bisjak to hold a debate at the next meeting on the Minister of Transport's response to his question, the National Assembly will decide on Friday, 26 March 2010, in the framework of the vote. Mr Franz Pukšič will now raise the question of a letter to the Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr Gjerkescu. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues. I, too, would be happy to have a possible final address from my Minister for Regional Policy and local self-government, so that he too would like a little more cooperation. I would be even more pleased, but I hope he heard earlier in the Prime Minister's reply that even the President of the Government wants to do so himself. And, Minister, I will give this opportunity today to discuss operational programmes here in Parliament and some procedures that obviously do not run. Now, finally, the President of the Government finds things are not going well. In any event, Members should also be informed of what is going on with the preparation for the next 2013-2020 period. Well, here's what I'm going to ask you here today. So you've been talking about simplifications on the SVRL for over a year. At each event that occurs or in almost every public statement, you actually repeat this as a label, both you and your officials, by introducing advances, VAT as a reasonable cost, simplifying controls, instructions and so on. Minister, we don't feel that in the field. On the contrary. So let me ask you a few questions. Is this a simplification that, from August 2009 to February 2010, municipalities have met the so-called list projects and other documentation four times in a six-month period, thereby informing SVRL which projects they will report to the next SVRL call and what financial framework? In the end, of course, no one even looked at these things, but the first tender deadline for the submission of applications was simply cancelled after the expiry of the deadline set out in the tendering documents. So one wonders, of course, whether this was even the legal work of the Ministry or the government service for local self-government. I ask myself: Where is the Court of Auditors here to prevent this from happening? What are we now doing in the congregations in those days, since the next deadline is Friday, March 26? We re-complete the project lists and coordinate them with the applications we submitted on 26 February and in mid-March we received back the open and unsupervised. It's not a simplification, Your Honor. It's a bureaucracy we've never seen before. Sometimes we ask ourselves: Are your officials really so clumsy and incompetent that they can't predict a single step, or are they political?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u261	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u262	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members. Mr Pukšič, I thank you for a number of further questions about the public call that allows me to inform this High Assembly of the efforts made by my colleagues and the results that we are thus achieving. Whoever repeats it like a piece of shit here, we could have a debate. I will focus on the facts of the public call and in this way also answer your questions, which you have not explicitly stated now in your address, and you have referred them to. As of 1 January 2010, you know that the Regulation on the allocation of regional incentives has entered into force. This was the legal basis for the invitation to tender or the so-called fifth invitation to tender and we are talking about a public call. This Regulation was necessary in order to regulate the legal basis in order not to occur, but here I will repeat, again to similar problems as the first four calls identified by the three audits; two Court of Auditors, one Office for Budgetary Control. And this Regulation explicitly states that the granting of regional incentives under this Regulation is a two-phase procedure. And this process or process has obviously not been well read by regional development actors. The first phase invited operators to issue an implementation plan and, in the second phase, when regional development entities receive the opinion of SVRJ on the basis of the expert opinion of the external evaluator, the call for applicants to submit applications, i.e. to the municipalities. The implementation plans must therefore be approved and adopted. We informed them in December 2009 and in January 2010, invited regional development actors, in particular representatives of regional development agencies and representatives of regional councils to the meeting, where we explained in detail the new procedure and invited them to submit additional documentation by 15 January 2010. Following this, on 29 January 2009, a public call was issued, which we are talking about today, and despite our call, the completions of the implementation plans were transmitted after 15 January 2010, some even in February and even towards the end of February 2010. It was clear, therefore, that neither we nor the external evaluator were able to draw up opinions within one or two days and to forward them to these entities in order to complement the applications, as provided for by the Regulation on the allocation of regional incentives. The situation is now such that we have coordinated ten of the twelve implementation plans since 8. 3. to 23. 3. At the same time, co-workers communicated daily with regional development agencies, with representatives of the Councils of the Regions, so that the process could be timely and all municipalities could submit their projects within the March deadline. And we didn't use the eight-day deadline for the call and the eight-day deadline for the response. There is now a substantive review of the applications of the Interdepartmental Commission, which again has 60 days of statutory review. Sixty days is, of course, the deadline, I hope they don't take advantage of it. My instructions to the Interdepartmental Commission will be that they do not take advantage of it, but this is difficult to predict, as it depends on the number of applications and the willingness of applications, especially the necessary additions, where we will call on the congregations to supplement them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u263	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u264	Minister, we're going to talk about the results that the Ministry has achieved some other time. This is the first time that funds will be returned from the European budget to the Republic of Slovenia and the next time all available funds will be made available. And it's incomprehensible since we're 31. 8th last year, we had to issue projects, i.e. the priority of projects, in spite of everything and in view of the fact that you predicted how much funding would be awarded in 2009, so that no fund balances would be added to this call. It is illogical to remind you that there is no invitation to tender for 2013. I ask you here today, because you already said that you would suggest that there be no 60-day deadline: Will you shorten your deadline? But I ask you, because I also asked you a question in writing, but there was no answer: Will you also change the broadcast deadline in the September 30th situation? Minister, the invitation to tender in the municipalities must not be signed, so select not even the contractor, as indicated in your invitation to tender. At least give us the opportunity to select the contractors to run the deadlines, and then, since you have open ZIPRO at this meeting, propose an amendment that we give the situation no 30. Nine, but 30. 10th or 11th, so we can actually do this and pump these funds. We must comply with Article 79 of the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u265	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the extra question. As regards the extension of the deadline for the submission of applications for payment, the samples of the contract are set and cannot be amended. This was also explained by the Court of Auditors in its audit of the final accounts of the 2008 budget. As for the short deadlines or the opportunity for the municipalities to carry out their projects this year, I would say this. The public call is for the allocation of funds within three years, 2010-2012. When we reviewed the implementation plans, we found that, to a certain extent, the projects were not realistically planned and that, given the degree of preparedness of the projects, the required building permits, the production of project and investment documents are pre-optimistic in a certain part. The deadline for these projects is three years and municipalities are forced to plan the use of these funds in 2010. I would say, however, that although we do not agree that SVRL is responsible for this delay, as you are trying to say, but I will throw the ball primarily at regional development agencies and other regional development actors who have simply not read the regulations well and have not done their homework for a short time, so I will actually propose to the Interdepartmental Commission very seriously not to take advantage of the 60-day deadline and in this way compensate in some way these months when the municipalities have not been able to submit their applications, i.e. on a February date, but will now in most regions, I hope that in all of these days they will meet all the conditions of the remaining two regions that have not yet, they can in some way submit their role and the deadline will be the same as it was already known in 2009. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u267	Thank you. You have a procedural proposal, Mr. Puksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u268	Yes, indeed, the ball should be returned to regional development agencies and municipalities. So you're responsible for the municipalities and regional development agencies, and you're all guilty of sticking together. Given that the new regulation clearly cannot be adopted overnight, why we have not already been informed of the new regulation and already in September, because the deadline for the issue of the implementation plans was 30 September. Minister, it's not your fault, but those of you who are so good and specially qualified knew something was going on. You speak very generally, but where there are building permits, where there is a programme in the implementation plan to be implemented from the municipal budget and everything else, Minister, it will not be possible to do so, because you will not allow us to select an operator to at least select it, they signed the contract when we reach the decision. But at least let us choose him! Don't let us do that in the invitation. Then you say that in three audits, I don't know what's been found and what's wrong. Europe has not said a single thing about anything being wrong. It is true, however, that in this country we are more papal than the pope, essentially, more than necessary. I don't understand what that's like. Therefore, the competent authority is the regions that can decide on the development priorities of the regions. This has also been negotiated with the European Community. Now the call says that some external, I don't know, evaluators and so on will be looking at it. You know, we're afraid that these external reviewers will be the ones who might have been involved in the programmes themselves. Some of them are working at the Ministry today. Some even sometimes wanted to include some activities called sportsmen’s participation in the eligible costs. Please! Today, however, they are major experts at the SVRL. For this and for the sake of many things that are not going well here, as we have already pointed out at the extraordinary meeting, I propose that we hold a debate in accordance with this Article 246 of the Rules of Procedure. The President of the Government also said that it would be good, and it would be really good if we had this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u269	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Puksic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister for Local Self-Government to his question of the Member of Parliament, the National Assembly will decide on Friday 26 March 2010 in the framework of the vote. Now he's gonna be a magician. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar asked the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs Dr. Svetlik a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u270	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, honourable Members, honourable Members, distinguished Dr. Svetlik. The questions I am asking you today have been asked by citizens and citizens who have come to my office in Kamnik. The first question concerns persons who have worked longer than the full pension period. Only full pension periods are taken into account when they receive a pension. For example, some women have worked for 40 years and only 35 years of full - time work have been taken into account in the pension they receive. Since these pensioners and pensioners receive the same pensions as those who have worked full - time, they feel deprived. So, Mr. Secretary, I ask you: Would the proposals of the pension reform you are preparing also take into account the years of full-time work for current pensioners? Secondly, I ask you about the results of the work of the Interdepartmental Group on the elimination of the problem of non-payment of wages and social and health contributions. The group was formed following the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 29. Ten. 2009 In order to prepare solutions to this problem, the Group also wrote to the Government on 13 November 2009 in its response to the parliamentary initiative given to the Government in October 2009 by Ambassador Andrej Magajno. Since then, it has been 5 months and the scope of the problems of non-payment of salaries and contributions has increased during this period. Some of the short-term plans, partly in the long-term, have been discussed today by the President of the Government. Would it be possible to learn more about this, since it is a problem that has affected many people? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u271	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u272	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Madam Member, Members and Members of Parliament. I can answer that question this way. According to the applicable pension law, it is already possible for individuals working full-time or full-time to receive appropriate ratings. These ratings are limited to a maximum of 7.2% higher pension, so this option has already been given. However, the question that arises here is because we do not know more precisely whether the individuals who have asked this question have been retired under the applicable pension law or perhaps after any previous period where the full pension period has been otherwise defined. If they were after the last one, the situation is different again, and I'll get to it in the end. In accordance with the proposal for a new law on pension and disability insurance, presented to the public today, the insured person should be entitled to an old pension at the age of 65, male, and 63, female if he has completed at least 15 years of insurance. For an insured person who has completed at least 40 years of retirement age, male, 38 years of retirement age, female, the age for obtaining the right to old age pension will gradually increase from 2011 to 2016, each year for one year, while the pension period remains unchanged, as you can see from this information. So it's 40 years for men and 38 years for women. An insured person who has entered compulsory insurance before the age of 20 will be entitled to an old pension, i.e. old and not early, when he will be 60 years old and will be 44 years old, male, 58 years old and 42 years old. The proposal for a new law on pension and disability insurance also introduces the Institute of Early Pensions, as I have already stated, which the current law does not know. The insured person is thus entitled to an early retirement pension at the age of 60. An insured person who would meet the conditions for obtaining the right to early retirement and who would remain in insurance could - and this is now the answer to a specific question - be paid 20% of an early pension monthly until the age of 65 for men or 63 for women. However, if the insured person did not make use of the option of the previous indication when fulfilling the conditions for early retirement, the possibility of this 20% early retirement pension and remaining in the insurance would be assessed on the basis of the supplementary pension period and increased 0.3% for each month when working on the period when he fulfilled the conditions for early retirement. And of course this would increase to the same age as it is for a full pension. Of course, the insured person who will enforce an early retirement pension will be given a pension based on the completed retirement age, reduced by 0.3% for each month, which will be lacking until that full age. If I'm trying to sum it up. The new law provides for these possibilities for new pensioners. The situation of current pensioners will not be affected by the new law and cannot be affected by the fact that it would be a very complex situation, which is practically uncontrollable. This is even the case for pensioners who have retired, as can be seen from the law that was in force before the existing one. That's not what the legislator is up to right now. Let me also say that under the existing law, all those who have already fulfilled will be retired [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Today the conditions for retirement and which will be fulfilled by the end of this year until the new law enters into force. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u273	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u274	Yeah, I'd like to ask you another question. However, I would appeal to this first one that it might still be considered, because it is a big difference, to see what can be done with those pensioners who have worked five years longer than the others, and will not be dealt with in this way as pensioners who will now retire. I would also like to ask for this part of the Interdepartmental Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u275	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u276	If I speak first about the second question, I must apologize for the fact that our ministry is not responsible for the work of this commission. The Ministry of Finance is responsible for this. As you can understand, some information has already been provided by the President of the Government. We have also referred the question that Mrs Jeraev intended to raise to this Ministry by asking you to contact those responsible in this ministry. However, I must add that it is very difficult for me to go back to the rights of pensioners who, as said, have already been assigned under older legislation under the conditions of the day, and this can also create an unequal position for all those who have subsequently retired. So we don't know this practice yet, but we can explore these options. However, I must add that the pension base was certainly higher for those who worked longer, so that it is not entirely true that they would be deprived of it. If they have worked more time, then this is not in terms of a bonus, but in terms of a higher pension base taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u277	Mr Milan Čadež will put the question to the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Žarnić, and to the Minister of Transport, Dr Vlačić.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u278	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers, distinguished Mr Žarnic. Maybe just a few words for the introduction about putting the fourth development axis into space. As early as 2006, the first spatial conference was convened in order to obtain and harmonise recommendations, guidelines and also the interests of the local environment, the economy and other interest associations. In 2007, the presentation or introduction of several variants, the north and one variant of the south were to both municipalities, namely the municipalities of Gorenje Vas, Poljana and the municipality of Cerkno by the preparers. The priority was given to the variant of the south with an intervention in the valley of Kopačnica, which is somehow the most difficult for the municipality of Gorenje. The month of June of the same year was proposed by the Municipality of Gorenje Vas, Poljane, on the connection of the Polish Valley with the Idrijce Valley. Then followed the decision of the municipal council of the municipality of Gorenje Vas, Poljana, to continue in this direction only after the connection of both valleys and to oppose the grave intervention in the valley of Kopačnica. In early 2008, according to the course of events in these two years, the municipality of Gorenje knew that this project was taking place slowly, so we proposed to the Ministry of Transport to separate Gorenje from the entire project, this is the connection between Hotavlje-Cerkno and Gorenje Vas-Poljane. In 2008, at the Ministry of Environment and Space by the section of the municipalities Cerkno and Gorenje Vas, Poljana was presented with the most appropriate connection and also the most suitable one, which is the variant of the south. On the part of the municipalities of Gorenje Vas, Poljane, this initiative was welcomed positively and we have warned that we have the municipal council decision for 2007.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u279	Thank you. Dr. Jarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u280	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members. 4. The development axis is a transport link that connects the upper and middle Soča with the centre of Slovenia and connects to neighbouring Italy in the west. The first leg of the 4th developmental axis runs from Želen to Cerkno and Škofja Loko to Ljubljana and the second from Želen to Idrija and Logatca to A1 motorway. The key measures on the 4th development axis are the settlements of Škofja Loka, Gorenje Vas, Tolmin and Logatec and the new construction of the road at Cerkno, Hotavlje, for which the respective spatial acts are prepared according to the ZPN plan. The other measures envisaged will improve the state of the vehicles on the axles by extending the vehicle and the increased radio will address geometric weaknesses. Some buildings and walls will be repaired and traffic safety improved. The preparation of all spatial acts by which individual measures on the 4th development axis are placed into space shall take place without interference. Public decommissioning is foreseen for this year and in part for the following year, the adoption of spatial acts no later than 2013 and construction in 2014, 2015. Is it possible, on my part, that the Minister of Transport will answer? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u281	Minister of Transport Dr. Wlačič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u282	Now I have to say that the question was quite different than I got in writing. I have terms here, which was basically. The deadline, i.e. the following activities are being implemented at this point on the 4th development axis: update of the Jeprca-Zminec-Želin section, as stated, on which the construction projects of the Škofje Loke bypass are under way, the Gorenje vas - Cerkno - Hotavlje bypass is in the placement phase, an update of the Želan-Peršeti-Kobarid section-international border crossing Robič, where the Tolmin bond projects, reconstruction of the G2/102, Baca-Dolenja Trebuša road is in the space placement phase. The rehabilitation of the hill under the Key with the gallery is under construction, for the reconstruction of G2/102 Dolinje Trebusha-Jelin, and the circle in Kobarid is PZI made, the start of implementation 2010/2011. Update the section Želen-Idrija-Logatec, where the projects of the railways Lower Idrija-Godovič-Hotedršica section Kalce and Logatec are designed with variant studies. The deadlines for the implementation of the projects shall be 2010 and 2011. Adoption of spatial acts 2013, construction 2014, 2015 All the projects mentioned above, except for Želen-Logatec, are intended to draw on European funds. If projects are to be delayed, funds will have to be provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u283	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u284	Thanks for the answer. It's all true as far as the curbs are concerned. I want to know exactly how it is with the Hotavlje-Cerkno route. Since your colleague, Mr. Žarnic, is in front of me at the 16th session. Last year's 11th year will ensure that the study is completed and a new proposal is submitted for the most appropriate variants, which can then also be the basis for the preparation of an idea project that will need to be reviewed and is expected to be completed in last year. But then I also understood that the problem of placement, because the legal basis is poor, and also assured me that the proposal for a law on line facilities, that is to say the placement of road and other infrastructure, is prepared, written within the Ministry in coordination and mostly with other departments, so the law will go into inter-departmental coordination and then to the Government. I'm counting on the government to see him by the end of last year. In view of this, I ask for an answer because we have noticed this year that the fourth development axis is proposed for the road transport network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u285	Thank you. Who? Mr. Wolf, will you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u286	I'll go first. It is proposed, and as Minister, I will object to this deletion. I can say it in public here, but you can write it down, and if you want me to repeat that you can film me, I will do it again, because I don't think that would be the right decision, so that's my assurance as Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u287	Thank you. Mr. Jarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u288	Thank you. Just for a little lapsus. Last year, I wasn't a minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u289	Thank you. Mr. Peter Verlič will ask the question of the Minister of Transport, Dr. Vlačič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u290	Thank you very much. This latest response by Minister of Transport Dr. Vlačič to oppose the deletion of the development axes is, of course, very pleased because there has been a lot of confusion here. At first we were, and I must say this as the proponents of the Law on Priority Construction of Sections of Public Roads, among which we proposed some new transport axes, which is a bit of an unpleasant surprise that the coalition was, in fact, against the deletion of new development axes, which are very important for the development of Slovenia. Among them was also proposed the so-called fifth development axis, which I think is more worth paying attention to for the proper placement of the internal region than it is to include in the enlargement of the resolution plan on national development projects. It is the axis, the connection between Unec and Žlebič, that is to say, this corridor, which continues along the Notranski Pass of Rakek, Cerknica, Block, Sodražice, and then connects to the 3rd A development axis at Žlebič. On this fifth development axis, if we call it that, there is also a passage to the Los Valley and to the Loške Potok. I think that this corridor, this fifth development axis, is already seen to be quite a freight traffic from Kočevska to Primorska by Notranjska and vice versa, so this connection could be a beautiful link between the southern part of Slovenia, which could be connected to Kobarid, Idrija and Logatca from the fourth development axis, then through Notranjska through this fifth development axis to Kočevsko. It is not particularly necessary to explain that this road, according to our belief, already requires quite an update. However, if we gave her the right status within the resolution on national development projects, I think this would also be a contribution to the regionalisation of Slovenia. I wonder: How do you assess this project of the fifth development axis and what would you do specifically to realize this project? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u291	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u292	First, I must conclude that there is no fifth development axis in the documents of the Republic of Slovenia. And the second is part of the cross, and then the third you know is from the north to the south, and the third A you know is the fourth and now the fifth is not really the moment. Therefore, it might be a little too early for me, as Minister of Transport, to answer your question today whether or not I feel like supporting this project. I can tell you know these numbers well. Slovenia has about 600 km of motorways, it has 6000 km of state roads and many more kilometres of local roads, and at the time of the regulation adopted in the railway infrastructure we have about 1200 km of railways, so it is my desire to start thinking about the very importance of roads, including that of trying to convince citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to use public passenger transport as much as possible. To make the Maxes more than just build roads. It is my desire, as Minister of Transport, that public passenger transport is not used only by those who do not have a car or who cannot or cannot drive or those who are under 18 years of age or who are older, and therefore cannot, or those who cannot because of their material circumstances. To actually start thinking about public passenger transport, not just new road links. But I can give you the situation on the projects from our directorate's development programme plan in Unec-Cerknica-Bloška Polica-Sodravica-Zlebič. On the project resting place Unec, section 1115, the land acquisition process is foreseen in 2012/2013. On the project of reconstruction of the bridge over Martinjak, at section 1118, there is a project documentation in the process of review. Construction is foreseen in 2012/2013. The draft regulation of Bločica at Section 1118 is in the final stage. The project covered the structure of the road by building a one-sided pedestrian corridor 800 metres long. An agreement on co-financing with the Municipality of Cerknica was signed in 2008. On the basis of the contract for the execution of works concluded in September 2008, the works started in September 2008 and, including the additional parts commissioned, were completed in 2009. Preparations for the review of the works carried out are under way. With the project of road regulation through Novo Vas, section 1119 is planned 900 meters through Novo Vas. The sidewalks, public lighting and an arranged intersection with R3-748/2412 will be arranged, co-financed by the Municipality of Blocke. Ideal regulatory projects will be developed in 2010. Sodražica-Nova Vase overlay project, section 1119, produced project documentation for overlaying kilometers of long section in 2008. Due to the extremely damaged section, this could not be done with a classic overcoating and recycling was proposed. In the absence of sufficient resources for the entire section, at the end of August 2008 a section overlay of 280 metres was carried out and the rest of the section was built in 2009. On the overcoating project Unec-Žlebič is the following situation. The R1-212 regional road has a low rolling surface at section 1119 in several parts. The bridge between Žimarica and Sodražica, which is between a kilometre of 14.6 and a kilometre of 16,135, was carried out in 2008. The project through Žimarice at section 1119 of 800 meters will be carried out as part of the construction of sewerage. Project documentation of the sidewalk and public lighting was commissioned by the municipality. The Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads will order this year to complete the project documentation with road work. For the project arrangements through Sodražica, investment documentation is made on the basis of an idea project. On the reconstruction project Sodražica-Žlebič, at section 1120, construction of the second and third stages is completed. The construction of the first stage has already begun, there are support walls in the building, the building is expected to be completed in May. I will certainly make sure that these planned projects from the adopted development programme plan are also implemented.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u293	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u294	Dear Minister, thank you. You've read quite thoroughly the projects that are now in this section, I'll just say the fifth development axis, that's between Unec and Žlebič, in progress. But I don't know, or I listened very carefully, but I'm sure you've already driven this road through Rakek, Cerknica, and you probably know the problem that it is necessary to arrange such a bypass by Rakek, as well as a bypass by Cerknica, that you probably deserve the bypass as well. And this would be much easier if this project were placed as a fifth development axis in a resolution on national development projects. This was also the aim of the government at that time of adequate development support for the regions. It is not just a road; it is also a development that such a development axis of the whole region as Notranska would bring. If the mayors of these areas are listening, they're probably not too pleased because you're somewhat hesitant, because they would immediately say why they deserved the higher status of the third and the fourth axis. Maybe the third is because the mayor of Kočev is coming from there. Let me also say that the mayor of Cerknice was running for SD list, so he'll certainly be abusing the project. By the way, when you have supported public passenger traffic, I very much agree with you, but in the answer I have addressed to you, let me tell you that, say from Block to Ljubljana, there is a bus daily that does not even lead to Ljubljana, but to Postojna. There I also asked you what more they would do, and the answer was that for now that was all. The courage in this area to have at least more buses from these parts against Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u295	Thank you. Mr. Minister? You don't want to. Mr Ivan Grill will now ask the Transport Minister a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u296	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary. This morning, in a discussion on the subject from your department, we mentioned that very high costs also arise in Dars, a state-owned company. That is why I am very surprised by the information which has also been published days ago by the media that more than 20 new jobs in Dars have recently been able to be seen, and also in general to behave irrationally, especially with regard to the use of business premises. Business premises and also headquarters are located in Celje. There are also business premises that serve mainly archiving, while there is a large majority of employees in Dars in Ljubljana, and I suppose they have a rental space for which they can pay high rents. In this regard, I would like to ask: Can you tell me how many employees are employed in Dars, especially how many new employees were employed in your mandate? How much are the total costs of all the rentals paid by Dars for its business? What is the vision of this company's future business? It surprises me that it is at this very time when we are facing many problems that we are facing a recession where, above all, we need to act more rationally in this area, to look at these costs and to reduce the number of employees mainly with natural fluctuations, and here we are now witnessing new increases. Above all, it may also be based on information or on the fact that the planned new construction of new road sections is significantly smaller than in previous years. All this data shows that apparently this business here is irrational. So I wonder: Can you tell me what this picture is now? How do you plan this business to take place in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u297	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u298	Thank you, Chairman. At the end of 2008, 1,244 workers were employed in Dars and at the end of 2009 6 more workers were employed. Of the six workers, as an increase, three were employed in the field of legal affairs, organisations and personnel, 2 in the area of finance and marketing and one in the area of new construction. Although the educational structure is low. Most of the employees are with IV. level of education, half of the staff. They work mainly in the field of maintenance. Another large group with V level of education represents 33% of employees. Here is the largest group of employees in the field of tolling and also in the area of merger. Employees with VII. The level of education is 12% of employees. This year, the number of employees in Darsa is projected to increase by 9, with new employment mainly in the maintenance sector, 78% of new jobs with IV. level of education. In 2010, only two staff members with VII will be employed in the framework of professional services. level of education, in information technology and in the legal service. Additional maintenance employment is required due to the increased volume of work associated with new motorway sections and the merger of these. As far as rent costs are concerned. The monthly cost of renting business premises in Ljubljana, together with the cost of heating electricity, security, cleaning, maintenance and parking spaces, is €57.246 with VAT. The total area is 2,910 meters. In other places after Slovenia, Dars has no rented premises. The total area in Celje, owned by Dars, is 1,600 square metres, half of which, as you correctly stated, relates to the archive space, namely the central, technical and business archives of the company, which need to be further expanded. In the building in Celje currently works 11 persons who, in accordance with the act of organisation and systematisation, are systemised to advise the management, two project directors, three independent professional colleagues, two independent referees, two referees and one assistant referee. The staff shall carry out work and tasks in the fields of work of information technology, intervention transport systems, finance, accounting, sales and marketing, and general services. Reviews and revisions of project documentation shall also be carried out in Celje.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u299	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u300	Thank you very much for that information. I also had a feeling that a lot of this business area in Celje was untapped. If I understand you correctly, it is now. In this regard, I would like to ask: Is Dars planning or will you instruct them to explore the possibility that, as far as I know, the premises are in a sufficiently elite location, selling if it is necessary for most employees in Ljubljana? I would like to ask you a question: Why do Celje, where the company is located, no longer move to the jobs that are now in Ljubljana? This would also lead to rationalisation or, if the nature of the work is that way, to make room for reselling. This is how we act more rationally as a country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u301	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u302	A reasonable suggestion, that was my question, too, why in Celje. There will be a need for rationalization, I agree with you, or in one way or another.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u303	Thank you. Dr Vinko Gorenak will ask the question of the Minister of Justice, Mr Zalar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u304	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I would like to ask an eight-time question as to what the Attorney General has violated in terms of the Constitution, because I have not yet received an answer, but I must not do so and I must stick to what I have announced. Mr. Minister, 28. 11. 2009 entered into force the amendment to the Law on Courts, which was written by you or submitted by the Government. This law began to apply. 1. 2010 Let me remind you that we have passed the law despite the opposition of the Council of Justice and despite the opposition of the Supreme Court, both institutions have opposed it. You somehow sent this to Parliament against the will of these central judicial institutions. A Department for Organised Crime has been established and, among other things, a harmonisation of the Rules of Procedure has been envisaged in this paper. All of this is to be established or done by 1 January when the legislative changes are to enter into force. Look, 28. 11. So, the time is -- and if we take that time along that time that's gone -- now the possible veto and so on -- it was about a month, a month and a half and a half or 40 days, let's say it would have been prepared. And what happened? 15. 12. After half the time, you set up a working group to implement the law. Half the time after that, I guess. Nothing was done within the legal time limit adopted by the National Assembly, which you personally proposed. None of what the law says or at least two of the most important things have been done. In fact, a specialised department was not established and there was no harmonisation of the court order, which is a condition for continuation. Since you like to say that Mrs. Brezigareva has violated the Constitution and the law, I ask you: Are you in violation of the law? I have proof of that: you should have done it on January 1st, but you didn't. It is not clear why you are so easily hitting the prosecution, the courts, which I will continue to do, and you are in violation of the provisions of the law that you have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u305	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Of course, I will completely avoid the comparisons you've made with the prosecution because you're comparing pears and apples. I will stick to the framework of the question of the mission, which has also been announced. First of all, I must correct you, honourable Member. It is not true that the Council of Justice would oppose the amendment and the amendment of the Law on Courts. The Council of Justice has made some comments, and these comments have also been taken into account, and despite the fact that the then Vice-President of the Supreme Court, who has already resigned from office, has signed a number of objections to individual institutions, it is necessary to clarify that the President of the Supreme Court has always supported the regulation adopted by the Law on Courts and, inter alia, until the end of his term of office, has helped us to form a special implementation group at the Ministry of Justice, which you mentioned and which was set up on 15 December in order that this group may: for the first time, assist in the preparation of relevant sub-legal acts relating to the conduct of the courts. Secondly, in order to resolve practical issues that will surely arise when a very important and extensive change of law is needed. This cooperation with the judiciary was extended not only in relation to the Court of Justice and the Supreme Court, but to the courts of all stages, so that representatives of all courts and the Court of Justice participated in this group and that group started working immediately. It is not true that nothing has been done by the end of the year, but it has been quite much done, but it is true that this group has found that the complexity of the preparation of the Rules of Procedure is much greater than it seemed to have been at the stage when the law was adopted here in the National Assembly, because this amendment of the Rules of Procedure covers as many as 71 articles on important issues where it was absolutely necessary, in particular, to clarify with the representatives of the judiciary, what solutions to put into these provisions in order to work well in practice. It should also be borne in mind that the Minister of Justice does not accept a special procedure, inter alia, he must obtain the opinion of the President of the Supreme Court, then it is necessary to complete the interdepartmental coordination, to obtain the opinion of the Office of the Government of Law, so all of these reasons why this order was issued a little later than on 19 March was published in the Official Journal. In response to the question you posed in writing earlier today on this issue, we have made it clear to you that this slight delay has no impact on the implementation of the new institutions, and in particular not on the design and functioning of the specialised department. For when it comes to the establishment of a specialised department, it may be established by law only when at least half of the judges appointed by the decision of the Council are appointed as judges in this section. So, in any case, the law did not provide for this specialized department to begin its work with 1.1. This is also evident from the debate and presentations we made here in the National Assembly. This process will continue for a while. Just those days, the Council of Justice determined the total number of seats of these Judges, before which the President of the Supreme Court delivered his opinion on this, before which the Implementation Group had developed the criteria for the number of such Judges and would now follow the call for free seats. After the conduct of the proceedings, the Court of Justice's assessment and so on, the Council will appoint the elected judges to apply for this group, and only after at least five judges have been assigned to this group will this specialised section be able to start working. In short, this delay in court order did not interfere in any way with the use of this institute or any other institution.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u307	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u308	If it's a little late for you two months and 20 days - it's not a little late, certainly not. You yourself set a time limit that was January 1st, and you failed to comply with the deadline you set yourself. But let's move on. I have before me a letter from the Presidents of the Courts, Presidents and Presidents of the District Courts that we are more accurate. They sent it to me a few days ago and they say so. That you're three. 2. 2010 by e-mail sent recommendations to some implementing groups for this amendment of the law. And the presidents of the courts say: "We note that the recommendations of the implementation group do not essentially pursue the objectives of the last amendment of the law, especially those relating to the concentration of the management and administration of the district courts in order to relieve these courts and to ensure that they operate as rationally as possible." The time is limited for me to read everything to you, but further, these Presidents of the Courts refer to explanations in the law, where you have told us what the relationship between district and district courts will be and so on. And they claim - you probably got this letter too, or I'll give it to you - that you're passing the law again and that again - I stress - you're spreading what's written in the law with instructions. Same story, exactly the same thing that's happened many times, many times before. Mr. Minister, I am deeply convinced that the situation is not right. If most of the Presidents of the Courts are referring to the Council of Justice, they are turning to me and so on; that means you will have to ask yourself what is wrong with you and what is wrong with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u309	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u310	Thank you very much. I don't know this letter. I didn't get it. It's the first I've heard of him. However, I know that the Presidents of the District Courts have had several questions, which we are also solving in such a way that the representatives of the Presidents of the District Courts, namely the two representatives they have appointed, have been invited to participate in this implementation group, in which others, including the presidents of the District, Higher and also the representative of the Supreme Court, are working. In short, the judiciary only coordinates these open issues. The Ministry does not issue any instructions in this regard because it does not even have such powers. However, this implementation group can, of course, answer individual questions if it receives them or if it itself assesses that it would make sense for the courts to pay attention to them. In short, we do everything we do hand in hand with representatives of the courts of all levels and of the Council of Justice. If it continues to show that there is a question of such a nature that it cannot be resolved in any other way than with the amendment of the law, then, of course, as a minister, I will make sure that this happens.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Gorenak, a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u312	Thank you very much. I'll write you a letter without signatures, and I can tell you that in advance, because I don't want the judges who wrote this to experience any bullying. Around this issue of the implementation of the amendment of the law proposed by the Minister himself, which was adopted by this National Assembly, I propose that we hold a broader debate in which we can address not only these issues, but also some other issues concerning the issue of Slovenian courts. In fact, this is simply the case - I did not have enough time before - that the Presidents of the courts simply claim that they are coming from the Ministry's direction that recommendations are coming and so on, where they are actually interfering in the matter of marriage itself. This is a case that happens something similar to what happened in the D.A.'s office, where prosecutors and law enforcement authorities have found that the same thing is happening. These are two independent institutions and if the independent institutions find that the Minister is actually doing what he is not supposed to do, and this is the extension of the law with some internal acts, recommendations, guidelines or whatever else it is, and I think that this is the red light at the light that should be the alarm, and this is a big alarm, even in the National Assembly. That is why it seems quite right and perfectly normal for the National Assembly to focus on this issue a little bit more and have a wider debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Your proposal to discuss the Minister's response to the National Assembly will be decided on Friday in the framework of the vote. Mr Miro Petek will ask Mr Justice Minister Aleš Zalar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u314	Thank you for your word. The Honourable Minister. On 2 February this year, the ruling coalition and the Government rejected my proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Courts. This law stipulated that the District Court would also have Ravne in Koroška. Among the reasons for rejecting this law, however, it was said that this court would be too small and too expensive. But this court, which would cover the Valley of Men, would have six to seven judges. See, in Slovenia there are a number of courts that are much smaller than the court in Ravna, Koroška. Brežice, I think there are six judges, there are four judges in Sevnica, there are only three judges in Lithium - so Lithium is a significantly smaller court district than Ravne or Mežička Dolina - there are four judges in Trebnje, there are six judges in Montenegro, there are three judges in Tolmin, there are five in Ljutomer. So, Mr. Minister: Why can there be such courts in Slovenia with three to five judges, while the government does not allow Ravne to receive a court, even though this court would have many more judges? So if the government doesn't want a new court with six or seven judges, why are there courts in Slovenia that have between 3 and 5 judges? I would like to ask: When will you begin to abolish or unite courts with fewer than 6, 7 or less than 10 judges? If it is economically unacceptable that we have courts with three or five judges, then we can also address the matter. I'm sure it would be economically acceptable if we had only courts with ten or more judges. So one more question: When are you going to start shutting down the courts with three, four, five judges or bringing them to a larger court? And why, for example, do we have courts on the route Sevnica - Krško - Brežice, where they are employed by three, four judges, all have a head of court, have their own professional staff, have their own information system? So, um, court-martials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u315	Here's your word, Mr. Zalar.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Dear Member of the House! Your question is more than in place. The first answer to your question why we have such a large number of small courts - because the National Assembly so decided in 1994. At that time, this great reorganisation of the judiciary took place, and that was when the composition of that time decided on a concept. We have in Slovenia today, if memory does not deceive me, at least 25 District Courts with less than five judges. A relatively large network of small courts. I'm sure that's not the most rational thing. This is not just ours, I will say Slovenian problem, this is a broader, European problem. Some countries are engaged in these rationalisations and, for example, neighbouring Austria has such a serious problem in this regard that when it began to join the courts, the judges began to strike and, according to my data, the Austrian judges protested this. In short, this is also a political problem in some way, especially with us because you know that local interests in the National Assembly are very strongly present and that the big question is what the political reality is to go to reducing the total number, in particular the small courts. However, I must say that when we dealt with this issue at the Ministry, we decided to take a slightly different approach to greater rationalisation when it comes in particular to the Regional Courts. Instead of closing down smaller District Courts. We've opened up the flexibility of the county. Thus today, after the amendment of the Law on Courts, district judges can be tried in the entire district of the court and are assigned to any district court in the district without having to give their particular consent. In short, greater mobility of judges is ensured. On the other hand, this allows for greater specialisation in district courts. Because in these small district courts, judges mostly work in at least two legal areas, and this prevents specialisation. Now this flexibility will allow, for example, a district judge to specialize in criminal matters and come to several district courts to judge only criminal matters. When you mentioned the problem of governance: by the end of last year, each court had a President and a Vice-President. He doesn't have any vice presidents anymore. Here we went to rationalise the case in a way that, only with the annual working schedule, the President of the Court would appoint a judge to make a replacement when there is no President of the Court. On the other hand, we have transferred all cases of the judicial administration, most of the cases of the judicial administration, from the district courts to the district courts and have established stronger, more qualified directors of the court and more powers of the presidents of the district courts who ensure that the free resources are properly used. This is therefore a softer approach, allowing all courts to deal with cases brought before the courts in approximately equal terms, on time and also on time. In the long run, it would be advisable to pursue these reforms to bring these courts together, but we will have to take into account some of the specificities of our organisational network here and probably in return for certain courts to close down, expand access to legal representation, expand access to free legal aid. Let's say this is the model she followed in the reform of the Finnish judiciary. Finland has another problem. An extremely large geographical area in which small courts operate. The Ministry has so far decided on this approach, which I was just talking about, and this was also the reason that was explained when your proposal for the amendment of the law was being considered.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u317	Mr. Miro Friday, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u318	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you for your honest and correct reply, especially in this light, that you have made it clear between the lines that as long as the mayors, who are Members at the same time, are sitting here, this network will simply not change because there will be not enough votes. You can also comment on that later. I think so. Look what your colleague, State Secretary Boštjan Škrlec, said at the said meeting. He mentioned that smaller courts represent a more difficult specialisation of judges. These judges work under more demanding conditions, they accumulate larger cases, they organise work more difficult. In other words, this means that these courts are worse and that something must be done in this area. The Secretary of State said that small courts are more vulnerable to professionalism. That means they're a little less professional. I wonder: On what criteria do you measure this expertise, that larger courts are more professional because of their specialization, because of the staff there, or because of the flight of a judge in this position, because of his status and the like? Thus, citizens who are tried by judges in these smaller courts are deprived of their judicial protection. Mr Minister, years ago we also suspended the judges for offences and transferred the area of action to the District Courts. This has rationalized the network. I think that there were no major shocks on the ground, there were no major contradictions, and perhaps it would suggest that such a course should be taken in rationalising the district courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u319	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u320	Thank you very much. It is true, honourable Member, that the reform of the judges for offences has been relatively successful, we can say. Although, frankly, they still haven't integrated into the judicial system. Otherwise, there is a problem that many are geographically separated from other judges. This also led, among other things, to the fact that these are other judges who are really dealing only with offences, but not with other cases, even though they have the status of judges and not of judges for offences. Gradually, these obstacles are being removed. But this has nothing to do with bringing together smaller district courts, because then we run into another problem, and that's the problem with buildings. These smaller district courts are now in some buildings, mostly buildings owned by the Republic of Slovenia, not all. Any merger would mean a major change and migration and the acquisition of new premises, equipment, and that would certainly not be cheap. And now, in these times, this country simply does not have money for basic real estate investments either, so we had to radically rationalise the priorities when it comes to investing in a justice facility for 2010 and 2011. So there are other problems here, not just those related to the issue of specialisation, as you mentioned. I think it's hard to say, in principle, that a court without specialization is a worse court. However, some recent experience has shown us that if there is no specialisation, there are problems in some areas that are extremely new. It's a typical case of, say, personal bankruptcy. The cases went to the District Courts, and somehow this new jurisdiction doesn't seem to take place there. It does not accept in terms of the specificity of bankruptcy proceedings and therefore, for example, we are now preparing a change of law for the Government, so as to concentrate personal bankruptcy cases at the level of district courts, and we have special economic departments everywhere and within them, mostly specialised judges. There are areas where specialisation is necessary, such as family matters, bankruptcy cases, and economic organised crime, and they are areas where they will remain general, as they have been for decades.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Mr Samo Bevk will ask the question of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u322	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A well-respected choir. Last week, the 21st World Ski Championship in Planica was successfully completed, which was seen in four days by between 80 and 100,000 viewers. We are pleased to find that some of the necessary investments have also been made in 2009 and 2010 under the national project, the Nordic Centre Planica. The biggest investment was in cable devices, which had been waiting for decades. The rehabilitation of the back of the giant, the court tower, the resort and the construction of the forest road to the top of the airport was completed. Of course, much remains to be done within the Nordic Centre. We can also consider successful bargaining with a number of landowners in the area of mountain jumps. In order to implement the whole project, more than €40 million should also be drawn from the Regional Development Funds of the European Union, and together more than €40 million should be allocated to this project by 2013. Of course, we must not forget the famous Bloudka giant, who is now demolished and other facilities and infrastructure in Planica. That is why I ask Dr. Igor Lukšić, Minister for Sport: How are the plans and implementation of projects for the comprehensive reconstruction and upgrading of sports infrastructure in Planica taking place? I'm also interested in: Is the purchase of the necessary land already completed and the documentation prepared to obtain funds from the European budget for this All-Slovenian project?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Dr. Igor Luksic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u324	President, thank you very much for your word. Thank you, Member of Parliament, for the question. Members and Members of Parliament. Planica is a great story, and this has also proved to be the end of the world championship. Slovenia has once again triumphed as a good organiser. And let me draw attention to something that is usually hidden, although most frankly: we have a top-notch ski team. Our TVs are superb and have also been involved in the transfer of jumps from the Olympic Games. So that's something we can be proud of when we've got us next to Planica. About the plans. The plans are largely well set, but the old ones are running, of course, plugs. The issue of transfer of property has been a number of years - they told me that since 1982 this matter has been going on. We still do not have from 182 owners of the transfer of property, so we have decided on the Planica Act, with which we will transfer this property in one piece, because this is simply no longer the case. Things have stopped and if we want to carry out the project by 2013 we have to do this. So I would ask the National Assembly that this law, which will shortly come - the month - two - be on the agenda to support it. This is about the transfer of property. It's about other things. We have launched an architectural competition for some possible solutions, we have reached the first two awards, and coordination procedures are now under way. These experts who won these competitions were also now in Planica to see how it relates when the event is under way, and that they will also get the right ideas on how to operationalise the matter down to details. It's about cohesion funds. It's a matter of course. We had to split the project into two parts precisely because we have obtained a sufficient amount of property transfer in one part and we will be able to tender for this part already this year. For the second part, we will have to wait for the law to be implemented. We had a problem here, but we need to commend all the teams that worked. You know that we have set up a plant in Planica precisely to manage and prepare a call to lead the reconstruction and the entire project of building the Nordic centre. That's how things work out, and we did it in time, which means the team is good and capable. It is said that what a fellow Member said: the renovation of the airport and the construction of the two-seat building, which was a condition that we could even perform the world championship. You know that FIS has laid down the condition that these two investments must be made in particular in order to qualify for the World Cup. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u325	Thank you very much. Mr. Bevk, please, complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u326	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I thank Minister Igor Luksic for his answer. I asked a similar question a few years ago to the then minister, Dr. Slavko Gabru. At that time, I would say, they were really talking about the Nordic centre of Planica, because the project was not as far away as it is now prepared under this government. At that time, I asked the Minister in particular, because in winter the famous Bloudkov giant had fallen before, which in fact means the beginning of global flights. Well, and this Bloudka giant is still down today. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: Is there a plan to renovate this Bludkov airport this year? I've tracked this data somewhere. In fact, Stanko Bludek and his genius deserve to have this airport thoroughly and appropriately repaired. On 11 February this year, it was 120 years since the birth of a versatile inventor, athlete, organizer, builder Stank Bludk, who was born 120 years ago in Idrija. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, what is the fate of this Bludkov giant?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Now I also understand why a fellow Member is asking this question before he said to the end that he was a Bludek from Idria, and that in fact it is not as much a Nordic centre as it is an Idrian and must now be resolved by his reputation. Thank you, I appreciate it. Bludd's giant girl has been the biggest jumper for a long time, and we have an airport. The airport was repaired in the first phase and will come back in 2013 if the FIS approves the possibility of longer jumps. Now we're going to Bludkov's Grandmother, even though she's smaller than the airport, but since she has that name, historically, let's leave her that name. This July, at the latest, we are scheduled to go to the call for renewal and September, which is supposed to be the way my colleagues assure me to start the renovation. However, the first jumps are expected to take place in July 2011. Julia, that means it's going to be on plastic because technology somehow exists, even for the possibility that it might be in snow, but it'll probably just be on plastic. That's the answer. So, we're thinking about it, Bloudk's giant is the next priority, and then, as you know, there's going to be nine more, or there'll be nine jumpers, three jumps and a run track. We expect that the Nordic Center will maintain itself, just as it will be for every Slovenian to have some honor and pride to climb the Triglav, that everyone will somehow wish to see the airport and the whole range of jumpers from the top. This is now possible, the view is incredible, and I invite everyone to look at it as soon as possible and to convince others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u329	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs Samuel Žbogar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u330	Thank you very much! Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! For some time now, our public, who has been monitoring international relations, has been concerned about the reputation and weight of Slovenia in the European Union and the international community. This concern increased following Saturday's conference on the Western Balkans. As an external sign of the success of our foreign policy, Prime Minister Borut Pahor announced a conference at the Western Balkans Summit. At the time of preparation, sober and experienced foreign policy observers warned that Mrs Kosoreva, the Croatian Prime Minister, had skillfully planted a "impossible mission" that would go to our detriment, as it was expected that Boris Tadic and Hashim Thaqi would be sitting at the joint table too naive and therefore did not contribute to the headless run between Belgrade and Brussels in the last week. Pico na i was the resignation of the President of the European Council, Herman Van Rumpuy, and of the Foreign Minister of the Spanish Presidency, Mr Moratinos, the Conference unfortunately turned into a tea party and, according to the observers' assessment, failed. Only Croatia has benefited from the promotion of its positions, as Prime Minister Kosorjev stressed only how Commissioner Fule praised the separation of bilateral issues from the European path. This is not in the interest of any of the Croatian neighbours and already predicts Slovenia's serious problems in achieving a just solution to the border issue even within the arbitration process. Croatia has also achieved that Slovenia has become involved in a diplomatic dispute with Serbia with many bad consequences for Slovenia and the Slovenian economy. I ask: Do they hold the informal explanations of some foreign ministry diplomats that such a decision and a breakdown is due to the inoperability of the office of the Prime Minister or the Prime Minister who say that they do not give themselves anything? So how is the management of the so-called single foreign policy? I ask: How does the Government and the foreign ministry intend to remedy the consequences of diplomatic failure and Slovenia to restore the status of an important international factor that it has enjoyed in previous years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zbogar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u332	Thank you very much, Chairman. Mr Member, don't worry, Slovenia still enjoys a very great reputation in the international community, including in the European Union. Slovenia went to this conference of the Western Balkans for two reasons. First, because we have some responsibility for security and peace in our neighborhood and we feel and observe that things are happening there and that they are not going in the right direction so that things can get very complicated. And we feel that greater international attention is needed in this region, greater attention by the European Union to this region in order to keep matters in the right direction. On the other hand, we observe within the European Union that this enthusiasm for enlargement is dying or not at all. And we can see that this can be very dangerous for the neighborhood we're in. And that's why we felt that it was necessary to convene this conference, to organise this conference, and we think it was a successful conference. This is a conference attended by seven heads of government. Seven heads of government from the region, for the first time in 20 years. He was also a representative of the European Union, the European Commission, Commissioner Fulle. But it's important that the leaders from the region come. We feel that in this lack of enthusiasm within the European Union, the region must take some initiative. The region must show the European Union some ownership of its own destiny. The region must inform the European Union of some new optimism that there is a willingness to cooperate in this region, that it is ready for dialogue, that it is ready to solve problems. That is why we have convened this conference and the conference has succeeded. The leaders came, accepted the declaration, agreed on the so-called Hill Process, saying they will meet again next year or when the opportunity will be. In the meantime, various ministers will meet on very concrete projects: from infrastructure to airworthiness, to finance, anything, ideas were at a meeting where the region wants cooperation. From now on, ministers will meet, various ministries and then once again leaders at this level, and we hope and expect Serbia to participate in the next meeting. In so much I can say that the conference was a success so much that Slovenia is taking the initiative to take the initiative, which is what is expected of it. Regarding the bilateral issues that you mentioned, I would say - Commissioner Fule really said that bilateral issues should not limit negotiations, which is what the President of the Croatian Government also summarized in the press conference. At the same time, Fule also said that we must not lose our public opinion in the Member States of the European Union as we move forward with enlargement. And this is exactly what Slovenia is doing so that Slovenia can ratify this Treaty with Croatia. In order to be supported by the public opinion on this Treaty, we also need to resolve issues that exist more, some less, related to negotiations in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u334	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, as a man of state who loves his country and his country, I would like to draw your view that this was the success of Slovenian diplomacy. But this time, unfortunately, that's not possible. I am concerned that you are telling European Commissioner Fulle that we must not lose our public opinion in the countries of the European Union. Here is the problem that many people have lost a positive public opinion at the expense of Slovenia, and these officials are giving greater weight to the Serbian President or to Croatian Presidents. And that's a big problem. I will not, on purpose, propose an extension of this debate, because I think we must do this in a closed session. And the intelligence service has to report what's going on in the background, what kind of rotten compromises, what kind of lobbying. But, of course, I have to say that there is no point in defending the theory of the success of this conference, but when your predecessor, one of the predecessors, former Foreign Minister, is now the European Member, Mr Wigel, from your coalition, he said, "With great generosity, I would say that the conference was not entirely in vain." If we translate this into diplomatic language, we know what it means. With a reasonable degree of courtesy, he simply said what the general opinion was. And I don't blame you for the courtesy you used in your response to me. But, Mr. Minister, we must prevent such mistakes in the future. To get Croatia out of this one benefit, to spread ideas and statements while convincing our Prime Minister of the Government to realize this impossible mission - I think, this shows that in fact Slovenian diplomacy is not in a position or is either [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u335	Mr. Jerovšek, thank you very much. Mr. Minister Zbogar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u336	Look, Commissioner, of course we will never convince you that Slovenian diplomacy is successful in this mandate, no matter what we do. I think that the information that there were 250 journalists, mostly foreign, shows that there was obviously a very strong interest in this conference and also a very large number of articles published in relation to this conference. Of course, some, especially Serbian, have talked about failure, but they have a reason for it. They probably regret that the conference has taken place in the first place. But, see, the success of the conference - I myself was at this conference with the President of the Government - and the mood that was at this conference, the atmosphere that was among the leaders, indicated that it was the right time for this conference to be convened, that it was the need for these leaders to want to participate, to participate in joint projects and to look together in the future, not in the past. That was to feel at the interviews that were at lunch. With all the concerns, but also with regard to the situation in certain parts of the region. So I think that the conference was absolutely successful and the beginning of a process, dialogue - the only dialogue can lead to some stability and some confidence that will lead to the stability and security of this region.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u337	Thank you very much, Minister Zbogar. Ambassador Rudolf Petan will ask the Minister of Economy, Dr Matthew Lahovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u338	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! Well, my question will be more domestic. In the past year, Slovenia's mail stopped some mail and introduced so-called mobile mail. This is not the same, as mail is not just a transfer or delivery of some letters or packages, mail also offers other services, financial transactions and even more recently. Thus, the post office plays a more important role than just a picture of a letter that brings a letter or perhaps a bill of lading. I'm just really interested in: If it is rationalisation, which, of course, is understandable to some extent, under what criteria does the post office carry out this rationalisation? What mail is canceled? What is the limit where it comes to deciding that some mail is necessary as a permanent institution to terminate and introduce a so-called mobile mail that has a certain rule - at a certain time, perhaps not every day, at a certain hour or so? This is saying, what are the criteria for eliminating mail and introducing these mobiles, which are some kind of substitute, I'm going to say instant, about the mail that people are used to. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u339	Thank you very much. Dr. Laharnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u340	Thank you very much, honourable Mr. Petan. First of all, let me explain that Slovenia is facing a virtual liberalisation of the postal market in this area, which means that foreign companies can practically start offering postal services and enter the Slovenian market. For this reason, the Post Office of Slovenia was forced to reorganise as such with the aim of maintaining the stability of society, stressing that the Post Office also assured me that, of course, it was not about abolishing post offices, but about reshaping. As you have already correctly identified, in fact, where, say, stationary mail has been introduced by mobile mail, which is, experience shows, thus providing in the Post Office, for users in some way even more friendly. And where, for example, this has been introduced, it has also been well received by the population. The criterion for eliminating certain stationary mail is the business of loss, small in all services, few users or residents. In short, there are solutions that are least painful or most friendly to users. As I said, in this rationalisation, it is important for me to have a key number of people covered by each post office and the volume of services provided at that post office. As a result of the liberalisation mentioned above, which we must introduce because of the European directives, cost rationalisation is, of course, important in order to ensure business stability. However, I must say, as I said, the purpose is to ensure that all citizens are adequately accessible by converting them into mobile mail. Since you mentioned specific mail, a specific case in the Sites, I obtained information that actually by 31 May 2010, the owner would demolish the facility where the Site's Mail is located. It is a small post office which now has half of the workers in handling and one and a half employees in delivery - I am talking about legal hours, so it comes to these half-hours - and it is open on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday between 8.00 and 9.30 p.m. and on Wednesdays from 8.00 to 9.30 p.m. and from 2.00 p.m. to 4.00 p.m. Due to the small population and the small volume of mail services provided, investment in an entirely new department or in a new post office would simply not be economical. Therefore, in the local communities, according to the information I have, two options were specifically proposed to the president of the local community there: one is the conversion of existing mail to mobile mail following the pattern of past transformations in some other local communities, and this option has proved to be more favourable for the population. Another option is to move mail from the current location to the new location provided by the local community, for example to the premises of the local community. These two options were also offered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go, Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u342	Thank you for that answer. But I'd only have one more question about that. So, about this cell phone we've heard of. Like I said, it's not the same as the station. However, well, rationalisation to some extent, cost reduction, are pressures everywhere. I'm interested in the following: Is this mobile mail carried out by the Post Office of Slovenia or is it privatized, liberalized, that it is a contract with a company or with some individual who does it? I ask, however, about the data on these mails that are already mobile. Is this still in the 100% domain of Post Slovenia or is this done by the contractors, the co-operaters? That's what they say, someone else who has a rental contract with Mail.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u343	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u344	Thank you. This is an additional question where I can say that at the moment it is difficult for me to answer you, because I also obtained this information from the Post Office of Slovenia, where I was specifically answered. But I promise I'll give you this information, if you don't mind, in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Ambassador Mirko Brulc will ask the question of the Minister for Environment and Space, Dr Roko Žarnić.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u346	Dear Minister, I apologize for the late hour, but perhaps the College of the President of the National Assembly could concentrate a little on these issues and have them in one package. So on the basis of the European directive that came to us from 1. 1, there's a lot of news in the water billing area. The infrastructure is transferred to the local community, which must account for depreciation. The price of water consists of connection, maintenance, numbering and drinking water supply regulations leave decisions on how to raise funds for local communities through the adoption of the tariff system. That's all clear. The legislator imposes a regulation on the operator of the water supply metering system, the maintenance of the counter, every five years of exchange, the maintenance of connections to public water lines other than public water supply, and in Article 24 of the Drinking Water Supply Regulation also further regulates the area of connection maintenance, which is also correct as a result of potential water losses. Article 37 also provides for the transfer of building connections to the actual maintenance of the public service provider. All well and good, but many of the calculations for water consumption with the listed ingredients also represent up to 200% of the stimulation. The reason is, too, because there hasn't been this stimulation in nine years. When adopting the tariff system, we are faced with the following problems in the municipalities: the owners of counters do not want to replace counters after five years; the connection is owned by a natural person, if it is damaged, they have to cover the costs themselves, which is now dependent on the distance of this infrastructure and can be very expensive, so they do not want to be corrected; these costs must not be covered by the municipal budget; individual consumers will carry out repairs and maintenance, solidarity of waste, the city has always been solidarity to rural areas where these costs are much higher, and individual responses to the renewal of connections are operationally very difficult. Everything mentioned and other problems with the mayors have already been alerted through the SOS. So, Mr. Minister, I ask: From which source will the funds for replacing and restoring connections and measuring sites of the public water system, which are in charge of the management of the economic public services responsible for the provision of drinking water, be drawn? For the private owner does not want - and we cannot finance private property from public funds. At the same time, I propose that you inform the local communities by means of a special letter how to act so that there are no signs of mayors raising prices illegally, charging connections, numbers and maintenance. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u347	Mr. Žarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u348	Respectable. My parents have prepared a text for me that I'm going to read. And if it fits, we would also send it to you in such a form, and it is possible to help you before, as you yourself have said, strange questions. The area of replacement and renewal of connections and measuring sites of the public water system, which are in the management of economic public environmental protection companies, is governed, as you yourself mentioned, by the 2006 and 2008 Drinking Water Supply Regulations, the Spatial Planning Act 2007 and 2009. That's the legal basis. The connection of the building to the secondary water supply is part of the public water supply located between the secondary water supply and the user’s drinking water meter. Planning, construction and maintenance of pipelines and other equipment for connecting the building to the public water supply must be provided by the building owner. The connection of the building to the public water supply is owned by the owner of the building, it is said, property until connection. Now let's move on. However, the public water supply manager must maintain the connection of the building to the secondary water supply, and the owner or tenant of the building must pay for the verification of the performance and operation of the pipeline and the equipment of the connection of the building to the secondary water supply and allow its maintenance and the services provided to the public service in accordance with the tariff for the maintenance of the building connections to the secondary water supply. The operator of the public water supply shall keep records of the buildings and the equipment of the connections of the buildings to the secondary water supply and the routes of these connections. The municipality must ensure that, on the basis of the municipal regulation governing public service services, the connections of existing buildings are transferred to the maintenance of the public water supply operator by the end of this year at the latest. The majority of municipalities do not yet have the appropriate municipal regulations to regulate the relationship between the owners of buildings and the managers of public water pipelines, which is why there are problems in pricing under the new rules on the methodology for the pricing of compulsory municipal economic services for environmental protection, since municipalities do not yet have all the rules in line with pricing rules and public service regulations. In any event, the maintenance and/or renovation of the house connection and the replacement of the counter may not be included in the service price as a flat-rate amount because it depends on the individual building, the size of the connection. For that reason, the reference to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia 29 should be followed. 3. 2005 drawing attention to respect for the constitutional right to own property and the need to provide financial resources for the maintenance of household connections. The Ministry of the Environment and Space considers that both conditions under existing regulations can only be regulated by a contractual relationship between the owner of the building and the plumber. The basis for the conclusion of a contract between the owner of the building and the manager is Articles 24 and 37 of the Drinking Water Regulation and Articles 79 and 84 of the Spatial Planning Act. On the basis of those rules, the municipality shall, by special provision, determine the manner, form and extent of the contractual relationship with the owner of the building and the plumber, in which the method of payment, maintenance, replacement and renewal of the house connections and measuring posts is laid down. This is now, as I've been prepared, I hope it's helpful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u349	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mag. Stefan Tisel will raise the question of a letter to the Minister without a department responsible for local self-government and regional development, Dr Henrik Gjerkeš.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u350	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Minister Dr Henrik Gjerkes, distinguished Minister, colleague and fellow Members. I have a question about the amendment of the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development. The law on development support to the Pomurski region in the period 2010-2015 was adopted in the National Assembly at its 13th regular meeting of 28. 1. 2010 We Members also agreed at that time that the Government should prepare a new Law on Promoting coherent regional development within nine months. The National Assembly rejected the amendment that the Government should also draw up a law on development support for White Krajina and the Kočevsko region. Other regions and sub-regions were also exposed, which are also severely lagging behind in development such as Koroška, Tolminsko, Zasavje and, of course, Kozyansko with the Observer. In Kozyanski, unemployment increased to a good 12% when Slovenia averaged 6.8% of unemployment. The economic crisis and the rise in unemployment have further deepened this step in underdevelopment. That's why I'm interested, Mr. Secretary: What measures or incentives are you preparing under the new law to stop this gap or to increase the prospects for less developed areas? You have said many times, including in the interviews, that the law is being prepared intensively and that it will come to Parliament sooner than in half a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u351	Minister Gjerkesh, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u352	Thank you very much, Chairman. Respectable men who still insist with me. I am pleased that you have asked this question and also that you agree that the situation in Slovenia's regional development is poor. Developmental differences between regions do not decrease between regions in Slovenia. However, in individual areas, it has been shown that the Harmonised Regional Development Act, as we have it, has failed to carry out its task because the situation has deteriorated disproportionately. So it would be difficult to talk about preparing a novel, but I would rather say that we are preparing a new law on coherent regional development very intensively: we want it to be before parliamentary holidays in the parliamentary procedure. So I hope you don't have to take advantage of the time you gave us. The new system law will not only take care of the coherence of development between regions in Slovenia, but also of the coherence of development within the regions, because we know that there are also unacceptable regional centralities or, in other words, that statistically certain regions do not deviate from the average. However, if we focus on individual areas, the differences are significantly greater. The case is the south-eastern region where this conclusion is reached if we eliminate Belo krajina and Kočevsko. We are preparing new regional policy instruments that will allow flexible, dynamic solutions. So the instruments will be split into groups. In one group, there will be state-of-the-art detection in certain areas; in another, there will be action. We are talking about areas, not more about statistical regions, because these areas, under the new law, will be able to form themselves, unite and not limit themselves to the statistical region. It will be important for an area to find a common interest, to identify endogenous resources to address these needs that they will identify, and to find that they lack these resources. And this is where regional policy comes in. It will enable a systemic approach, a more effective approach to equalising development in Slovenia and will not, as we have already had a few initiatives, practice with intervention law, because intervention regional policy is not acceptable to Slovenia and no one. This represents, as I have said many times before, waiting for the situation to get worse somewhere so that the country has to cut down with its help in this area. And that's not regional policy. We are looking for an appropriate model to attract the economy as much as possible and at the same time to strengthen the regional development management. In particular, I stress the regional development management, which is to focus or limit itself on the existing regional development management. We will strengthen all those who already exist and progenys, and all these managements will be in the market. They will be selected by the regions, the ones that will be the most visible, and they will also be supported financially by the country or regional policy. We will define significantly more responsibility for regional development, i.e. all the actors involved, but we will also define the relation of regional policy to other sectoral national policies. But if regional policy alone cannot resolve differences in regional development in Slovenia - let's just think of the road in Pomurje or the water rescue in Pomurje - but the fact is that sectoral policies often receive unrelated and take little account of regional development goals. Regional policy, as we will propose in the law, will take care of their more effective coordination and this will make an important contribution to more coherent development in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Mag. Tissel, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u354	Thank you for your comprehensive response. I hope that we will indeed make one great step forward with our cooperation. If we look at what the current law on promoting coherent regional development, adopted in 2003, we see that it provided for a number of concrete incentives and also criteria defining areas at risk. It is a matter of reducing the differences in the development of the area in relation to the average state, then raising the overall level of development, addressing the structural problems of high unemployment, which has now been expressed even more in the economic crisis, then preventing unfavourable demographic movements, in particular border areas and areas with limited factors. Under this law, the Government then committed at least half a percent of gross domestic product in the first financial year, in 2004, and in the coming years, the amount of funds allocated for development incentives is at least 1% of gross domestic product. If we see that this would be something and yet the law, as we have found together, has not been successful and must have happened to Pomurje or the special law for Pomurje, because in the economic power of the population these differences have increased further. We believe that the law has not been properly implemented so far. You have listed a number of issues that will be able to enforce or control the use of this money more on a flexible basis and on the principle of cooperation. I am sure that with joint efforts this law will then have an impact throughout Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u355	Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Minister? No, no, no. Thank you very much. Ambassador Rado Likar will ask the Minister of Economy, Dr Matei Lahovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u356	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. A nice welcome to all, especially to Minister Lakhovnik. The initiative for this my question, which I am asking, came from my local environment, says from Idrija, but similar problems arise elsewhere in Slovenia. The market inspectorate is a body composed of the Ministry of Economy, whose main task is to oversee the enforcement of Slovenian legislation, in particular in the field of consumer protection and product safety, commercial, catering, craft and services supervision in the field of prices and competition protection. The Idrija Market Inspection Unit covers the municipalities of Dragomir, Borovnica, Vrhnika, Logatec, Idrija and Cerkno. And this year, one of the market inspectors is planning to retire, but according to my information, you do not intend to replace this vacant city with a new inspector. On the contrary, according to the information, it is even envisaged that one of the other inspectors will be transferred to the Postojna District Unit. In fact, in the Idrija unit, two jobs are abolished and, consequently, a market inspection unit in Idrija. As said, it happens elsewhere in Slovenia, for example in Kočev, and elsewhere. It is already kind of a general practice that whenever the number of employees in the state administration needs to be reduced, this is done at the expense of the employees in the periphery outside Ljubljana. In this respect, I ask you, Mr. Secretary-General: Is it true that the abolition of the market inspection unit in Idrija is envisaged? What will be your measures against the centralisation of the state administration? It is unacceptable for a balanced regional development and it is also harmful for the State administration to break down at the edge, while in larger cities the number of ministries is increasing. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u357	Thank you very much. The Minister of Economy, Dr. Matej Lahovnik, will be responsible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u358	Thank you very much. I must say that we generally have in the strategy that the number of employees in the state administration must be reduced by 1%, which means, in particular, within the Ministry of the Economy, a reduction practically by more than 5 per year. I must say that this objective is also intended to be achieved and thus to reduce the number of employees in the public administration by 2012 as appropriate. However, when we are talking about this particular case, which you have rightly pointed out, is a market inspectorate in Idrija, where the regional unit is indeed being abolished because of rationalisation, but the inspection office is not closing, we must stress this explicitly. The inspector will continue to work in the Idrija district unit and the head of the inspector's work would be taken over by the head of the district unit in Postojna. The inspection office in Idrija and the inspector would still be available to the parties to provide information and complaints concerning the rules under the jurisdiction of the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia. The inspector shall mainly exercise control in the technical field and control not only in the Idria area but also in the area of other regional units. The idea that the Idria area would not be controlled under such an arrangement is overstated, as the control in the other areas would be carried out by inspectors from the Regional Unit Postojna. It is quite irrational, however, in the view of the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, that the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia employs a full-time secretary for two inspectors, as inspectors must carry out certain work in accordance with the instructions of the Market Inspectorate and the Market Inspectorate strategy in the management of records and e-commerce. The relocation of an inspector from the Postojna District Unit is temporary, for a period of two months, due to the staffing needs of the seat, as three inspectors took maternity leave in early 2010. In addition to the inspector from the district unit Postojna, the inspector from the Kočevje district unit is also temporarily carrying out her work on the seat, as you yourself mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Mr. Rado Likar, complement the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u360	Thank you, again, for your word. However, given the number of economic operators and the number of inhabitants and the extent of the necessary controls, it is unacceptable that the unit of market inspection in Idrija should be abolished, as it is also said to cover a wider area, the municipality of Dragomir, Borovnica, Vrhnika, Logatec and Cerkno. I consider even the opposite, or in the opinion of the employees, at least three inspectors were needed. You said this inspector would be temporarily transferred to Postojna for maternity leave. If this were a permanent practice, I do not see the real point in driving an employee to work from Idrija to the Regional Unit Postojna, but an inspector from Postojna, for example, in Ljubljana, is called the main office. Also, according to information I received, the number of employees in the Ljubljana office is increasing. In the Idrija District Unit, only two inspectors have been systemised from the already systemised three inspectors for this area. I was told that the city of the secretary was also abolished. In my opinion, as it is said, the inspectorate responsible for overseeing the enforcement of laws and regulations that are important for regulating market relations is therefore unacceptable to abolish the Area Unit covering this area, in our view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u361	Thank you very much. You want to complete Dr. Lahovnik's answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u362	Maybe just for a little while. Your concern in terms of the effectiveness of the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia is justified, here I agree with you. And also in order to increase the efficiency of the Market Inspectorate, we increased the number of employees last year. If we're looking at the whole area, now it's hard to tell you the exact number, but it's been, now I'm going to say between four, five or, not hold me to the word, but we're talking about this number, but we're talking about the whole of Slovenia. But given what was happening, it also warned consumers and the human resources supply of the Market Inspectorate was essential. I must say that, personally, if I had the option, the Market Inspectorate would, of course, increase the number of employees and, elsewhere, reduce even more radically. But we are limited by such and different regulations, so we are trying, somehow, to increase efficiency, to rationalize where possible. And as for the secretary, of course you're absolutely right, but I must say that I trust Mrs Grlich's chief market inspector. It has the task of increasing efficiency at the same time as rationalisation in certain places. And their assessment is that it is not rational for the Market Inspectorate, for example for two inspectors, to have an employed full-time secretary, because market inspectors must carry out certain works that are not related to record keeping and also to carry out e-commerce on their own. That's why I'm guessing she took this step, and I'm having a hard time challenging him. However, as I have said, I also find it difficult to object to the fact that, with some argument, the area unit, on condition of course, does not close the inspection office. And that's what's crucial to working on the field. Otherwise, it is difficult to talk about the rationalisation of the Market Inspectorate itself. Of course, I understand that there is probably a local view, especially of employees there, different than the view of users or the economy, for example, which reminds us of a large number of employees in the state administration and so on. In some ways, however, these rationalisations must also be implemented, while efficiency must not be reduced. However, it is of course the fact that temporary relocation to the seat of the inspector does not mean exerting pressure on the work of the inspector, but on the contrary. In some ways, it is possible to learn how inspectors work also through the headquarters of the inspectorate, which, in addition to direct field supervision, also prepare instructions and guidelines for the work of all inspectors in the district units and prepare appropriate answers to consumer and individual business questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u363	Thank you very much. Ambassador Matevž Frangež will ask the Minister of Economy, Dr Matei Lahovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u364	Thank you for your word. Mr. Secretary, we have already talked about the problem I wish to point out. However, since I was recently warned in Maribor that some in Maribor would like me to open up important topics for the local environment several times, I decided to open this very important topic today also through the Institute of sent questions. In Slovenia, we have been talking for several years about how the knowledge and innovation we have in Slovenian universities will effectively translate into economic practice, so that these innovations and this knowledge will be the source of added value and greater competitiveness of our economy. In Ljubljana, there is a Technology Park, which, in my opinion, has very effectively linked what technology parks are intended for. And this is the infrastructure for young companies, spin-off companies, to have "startup" companies with appropriate infrastructure. At the same time, as one business area around the world, they also provide an excellent space for young entrepreneurs to hang out and join together, creating new synergies, new businesses and new added value on the basis of this association and integration. In Maribor we have a project Science Park in Maribor, which after still valid resolution on national development projects 2007 - 2023 is a valid project. In view of some of the information that some of the speakers have asked today, the question is how will the call for a 100-80 million euro European funding for the development of public economic infrastructure be conceived. And in this respect, I'm curious: Do you personally understand scientific parks as an internationally tested recipe for transfer of knowledge, innovation into economic practice, a desirable development and technological breakthrough? Do you understand the scientific parks as incubators of innovation that lead to products and services of higher added value than those of the most important categories that will tomorrow provide more economic permeability, prosperity and security? Will the call for co-financing of economic infrastructure also be open to projects for the construction and operation of technological parks, or more precisely, will you support the construction of such a scientific park as the competent minister? This is particularly important in view of the information provided by the Ministry of the Economy that such objectives as the construction of scientific parks, which are the bridge between science and economics, should be moved to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Mr. Secretary, I thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u365	Minister Dr. Lakhovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u366	Thank you very much. The Ministry of Economy, of course, envisages the establishment of development centres of the Slovenian economy to support certain development areas, with joint projects between businesses and other entities, including both development work and the necessary equipment and other infrastructure to enable the development of relevant competences. Activities will focus on business growth and development. Let me say that science park by definition, if we look closely or look at the material, I'm not a referee. We have a Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology. As Minister of the Economy, of course, I must support this transfer of knowledge, as you mentioned, to the greatest extent possible in the economy. But the condition that we support such projects at the starting point is also an appropriate interest on the part of the economy, otherwise they would be practically forced to support projects to be supported by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. With regard to understanding technology parks, I must say that, of course, there are institutions where they combine some research and development and business activities of new technological innovative companies and research and development departments of enterprises that are not necessarily present in the technology park. It is essential that we enable the creation of new technology companies in this way and thus ensure this technological breakthrough that we are listening to. In some ways, the scientific park is exposed in all reports as a speciality or difference to the technology park, and as it is, and we have already checked it, if we look very substantively, it is under the auspices of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, which, here, according to our information, does not intend to support. Whether this is true or not, you can check for yourself. The content is the Research Centre of the University of Maribor, which covers 90% of the project. On the other hand, there is an energy project that is fully compatible with our concept, and it is also reported by the University of Maribor and it is an Energy Technology Park. So at this point, I have to say that, as defined by the university, such a scientific park is difficult to understand in terms of definition, I don't know, I will say, a technology or development park which is the purpose of the call, but given that in some ways there is also a potential usable knowledge, including for the economy and technological development of the region, here I agree with you that it is important, of course there are two options that I see at this point. One is the adaptation of the project on the website of the University of Maribor, which I estimate will be necessary in any case. This was also the purpose of the public call that we have given to make all those who have applied further aware of the purpose of the call and, of course, I must say that at the Ministry of the Economy we will open up the possibility of self-building of the infrastructure. TEK is also important, but it must be primarily for the economy and not so much for the university. Let me say that the point that has been made in the past, when we looked at the structure of the funds earmarked for research and development, is that there were significantly too many funds earmarked for a significant research activity, for a scientific part about 90%, and not enough resources for this technological development. That is why we have also done two agencies in the past, and even in 2004, the next government has retained this concept and we have practically the Agency for Research and the Technology Agency, which is more focused on applied economic projects. And this call we are preparing at the Ministry of the Economy concerns an area of work that is more focused on economic projects and is trying to follow this transfer of knowledge from the university to the economy, so these economic criteria must be strongly exposed. Therefore, as I said, it is also possible for this scientific park to be included, but they will have to adapt accordingly if they are to apply for tender within the Ministry of the Economy. However, if they decide to go to the tenders prepared by the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, then, of course, it can also run a highly rigorous science park. Like I said, it's just gonna have to be [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u367	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Frangez, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u368	Mr. Minister, your answer is correct, and you will understand that I am not entirely satisfied with it. Allow me first to question the question of jurisdiction. This is about the link between science and the economy. One of the things I support most during your ministry is the call for the development of new products. We need such things if we are to make this price leap into higher-value classes, on the basis of which we give our people higher wages and more security and prosperity. Let me tell you about the connection to the economy. Of course, it is possible that we will develop such products in garages, and that is what is happening. However, it is much better for a country as a community to think about establishing an appropriate infrastructure to encourage such innovations in this way. And why is it 90% research? Since the science park is designed to develop a specific research programme in cooperation with a particular company, with a view to the economic application of some innovation to the global market, let us hope. And in this respect, let me say that the Maribor Science Park has been supported by a number of companies, 52 agreements between innovative companies in strategic cooperation, over one hundred letters of support, institutions and international partners, 30 letters of support, 15 major Slovenian companies, many international corporations including Microsoft, IBM, Oracle, a total of 12 agreements, chambers of commerce, local communities, development agencies, British Council and so on. All of this suggests that the environment is recognised in some scientific, innovative, innovative potential of the University of Maribor and, above all, of its students, the added value to which it also relies. I propose that we specifically agree on this issue. I do not want this country to lose its hearing at the time of this government for this necessary development infrastructure in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u369	Would you like to complete the answer? Here you go, Dr. Lakhovnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u370	To a large extent, I agree. We both believe that the transfer of knowledge, including from universities and institutes to the economy, should be ensured as much as possible. What we are always afraid of in our ministry is that, frankly, we do not want to support projects that are intended exclusively for the university as such or institutions, but are not of the interest of businesses. Letters of support are always welcome, and I believe that this is also a serious intention. It is even more determined when companies and the university together invest in a project. This is the greatest guarantee that this transfer of knowledge from universities to the economy will then take place. But, however, I propose, given that the public call was also open, that representatives, including those who form this scientific park, advertise at the Ministry of the Economy, where we will explain to them the purpose and framework criteria that will also be made public, and the choice in any way transparent and public, and that we will find out how this scientific park can be, if possible and enough, those criteria that we set up at the Ministry of Economy with a view to directly transferring knowledge from universities and institutes to the economy. Because I believe that we both agree here that we want to avoid the phenomenon that is often present at the university. And I come from universities and entrepreneurs often criticise us that sometimes we support scientific projects, because of scientific articles, I don't know, some other purposes, and then that knowledge that develops there is no way to find a way in the economy or is not useful for the development of some new technological products. And that is all we want to ensure with this project to develop economic and logistics centres. So I think I'm good in every way to get this meeting. I believe it may even be arranged, and it's trying to figure out where the points of contact are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u371	Thank you very much. We have concluded the first round of questions from Members and Members and are moving on to the second round. Mr. Milenko Ziherl - no, he won't. Mr Marjan Bezjak will ask the Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u372	Thank you for your word. Once again, once again, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament. I would like to ask Mr Patrick Vlačič a question regarding the parking spaces for ADR transport. I'm asking you: When will you arrange stops and parking spaces for vehicles carrying ADR goods on the highway connection Italy-Hungary and Austria-Croatia? In 2009, the government adopted the Law on raising fines for drivers, transport companies carrying ADR goods, but did not allow conditions or stations, parking spaces to stop and park these vehicles. The biggest problem in Slovenia is this because last year fines were raised for transport companies. We're implementing some law, but we're not actually making the most basic thing possible. I think that both ministerial departments need to coordinate and compromise here until the conditions for things, as I have stated, are actually possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u373	Thank you very much. Minister Wlačič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u374	Thank you, Chairman. Dangerous goods are, by definition, goods that pose a threat to the environment, health or life of humans. The transport of dangerous goods is regulated by the Law on the transport of dangerous goods and by law and is harmonised by European legislation governing this area. Of course, regulations in this area are very restrictive. In 2009, the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods correctly changed the fines due to the implementation of the European Directive, depending on the gravity of the infringement. This means that violations that pose a greater threat to the environment, life or health of persons prescribed at a higher level have been reduced while fines for easier infringements have been reduced compared to the fines prescribed prior to the amendment of the law. In accordance with the provisions of that Act, the parking of trucks carrying dangerous substances which pose a high risk to the environment, life and health of humans or which could be used for terrorist purposes is not allowed anywhere. The driver must have a safety plan whereby he must provide for a route of transport, planned stops and, in accordance with Chapter 8.4 of the ADR, the driver may park the vehicle uncontrolledly only in a protected parking lot or in a secured factory parking lot. If such parking spaces are not in its vicinity, a vehicle carrying dangerous substances or dangerous goods may also be parked in other private or public parking spaces where there is no danger of the vehicle being damaged by other vehicles, or a parking space controlled by a worker familiar with the type of cargo and the location of the driver, or in an appropriately open area separated from public roads and buildings where people are usually kept. In the light of the above, we believe that the parking spaces on the motorways meet the conditions for 8.4 ADR as they are controlled by the relevant video system. However, I can assure you and you are right that the conditions are not fully ensured so far, in cooperation with the Ministry of Environment and Space, as soon as possible, to fulfil the obligation imposed on us by Article 35 of the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Goods, to establish parking spaces for vehicles for the transport of dangerous goods and the conditions to be met by parking spaces.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u375	Thank you very much. Mr. Bezjak, would you like to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u376	Yeah, absolutely. In part, I agree, Mr Minister, with your answer, but they are by no means relevant to this matter, because we ourselves know that no parking or resting place throughout Slovenia is environmentally designed for ADR parking or stopping vehicles. In Slovenia, police stop vehicles on the highway and get fines paid by drivers as well as by transport companies. But if it does not meet the conditions, all the conditions for carrying out this transport, where to park this vehicle, where to stop this vehicle, then we make the law in the law, we actually have the law in the law, we have the holes in the law, and there is no way I can agree to the entry into force of one law that has no conditions with another department for the actual parking of these vehicles. We must also be aware of this, there was a recent disaster in our tunnel. What should you do if this vehicle is loaded with ADR goods? Where do you take him, where do you put him, what if there's a spill of really dangerous fluids and so on? For this reason, I believe that all conditions for parking such vehicles which do not have faultless vehicles need to be regulated as soon as possible, especially foreign companies, transport companies, since domestic transport companies involved in transport must in any way provide conditions which are incomprehensible in fact, which have parked vehicles in their domestic territory.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u377	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u378	Yes, I must say I agree with you. The country is obliged to do so and we will do so as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u379	Thank you very much. Mr. Bezjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u380	Thank you. I would like to give this debate to the National Assembly so that, in fact, according to the rules of the National Assembly, the second paragraph of Article 246 would be put to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u381	Your proposal, Mr Bezjak, will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday during the vote. The second question will be posed by the Magi. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, absent Minister of Health Borut Miklavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u382	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Since the Minister is absent, I ask his written reply. At the meeting of the National Assembly in late November 2009, we received a decree on the annual management plan for the state's immovable property. The decree sets out the block numbers of buildings and plots and the indicative prices for these buildings and plots to be sold. The Government stated in its explanatory statement that only property which the controller does not permanently need can be classified under the law. The orientation value in the decree should be the same as that in the judgment cited above, which is an approximation of the market value of the assets. The government included hospitals, buildings and land of the Institute for Health Protection, Buildings and Lands of the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana, Psychiatric Clinic Ljubljana, General Hospital Izola and others. Journalists Dela Mileni Zupanič are grateful for revealing the incorrect allegations in the decree that could lead to the cheap sale of hospitals and related land that our health care still needs for its activities. The Oriental prices of buildings and land are highly undervalued. In some cases, the country would receive only €165 or around €150 per square metre of regulated business space in an elite location, or around €4,000 per square metre. And EUR 118 per square metre of land is worth about a thousand euros per square metre. It has also been found that it is not a permanent surplus of assets, that is, assets that the operator does not need. The government reacted laudably quickly, and a week after the publication of the article on the sale of property, it changed a decree likely to come to the National Assembly. The Ministry of Health has prepared data that would mean the sale of health property at a price. With the content of the decree, the Minister of Health has informed Members of the National Assembly and probably the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I, too, would not support this decree at the meeting of the National Assembly if I knew the untruths recorded in the explanations of the decree. The other Members probably wouldn't support him either. That is why I ask the Minister: Has anyone taken responsibility for unreasonable prices and for the classification of buildings and land in a decree that should not be included in the decree and because we were misled Members of the National Assembly and probably also the Government?
ParlaMint-SI_2010-03-24-SDZ5-Redna-15.ana.u383	Thank you very much. According to your proposal, you will receive a written reply from the Minister within 30 days. We have thus concluded the second round of questions for Members and Members. To the President of the Government, ministers and ministers, I thank you for the answers given. Good-bye to you. This concludes this agenda item. We will decide on the proposed votes on Friday during the vote. I'm adjourning the 15th session of the National Assembly, which we'll continue tomorrow, Thursday, 10 a.m. Thank you very much.
